                                              Documentof
                                             The WorldBank


                                  FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                ReportNo: T7649-A0




                                         TECHNICALANNEX

                                      ONA PROPOSEDCREDIT

                              INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 16.3MILLION

                 (US$24.9 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)AND A PROPOSED GRANT

                     INTHE AMOUNT SDR16.9MILLION(US$25.8MILLION)

                                                 TO THE

                                        REPUBLICOF ANGOLA

                                                   FOR

                     EMERGENCYMULTISECTORRECOVERYPROGRAM

                                                 PHASE1



                                             January 17,2005




Transport Group
Country Department 2
Africa Regional Office


This document has arestricteddistribution andmaybe usedbyrecipients only inthe performance oftheir
official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.        I

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                              SDR 1.00 =US$1.53208
                     US$l.OO =Angolan kwanza (AOA) 86.78
                                  December 5,2004

                                  FISCALYEAR
                             January 1to December 31      .


                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     African Development Bank
CFB     Caminho de Ferro de Benguela (Railways ofProvince of Benguela)
CFL     Caminho de Ferro de Luanda (Railways of Province of Luanda)
CQS     Consultant Qualification Selection
ECP     EstratCgiade Combate a Pobreza(Poverty Reduction Strategy)
EDEL    Empresade DistribuiqBo de Electricidade de Luanda
EMRP    Emergency Multisector Recovery Project
ENE     EmpresaNacional de Electricidade
EPAL    Empresa de Agua da Provincia de Luanda (Luanda Public Water Company)
EU      European Union
FA0     Foodand Agriculture Organization
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report
HIPC    HighlyIndebted Poor Countries Initiative
IBRD    Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB     Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICs     Individual Consultant Selection
IDA     InternationalDevelopment Association
IIA     Institutode Investigagzo Agronomica (Agricultural ResearchInstitute)
IMF     InternationalMonetary Fund
INEA    InstitutoNacional de Estradasde Angola (Angola National Institute of Roads)
LCS     Least Cost Selection
LIB     Limitedinternational bidding
NCB     National competitivebidding
NGO     Nongovernmentalorganization
PMKJ    Project management and implementationunit
PPMRRP  Priority Phase Multisector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program
QCBS    Quality and Cost Based Selection
SENSE   Servigo National de Sementes (National Seeds Services)
sss     Single-Source Selection
TSS     Transitional support strategy
UNDP    UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram
UNFPA   UnitedNations PopulationFund
UNICEF  UnitedNations Children's Fund
UNITA   UniZo Nacional para Independencia Total de Angola (National Union for Total
        Independenceof Angola)
WHO     World Health Organization

                        Vice President:       GobindNankani
                      Country Director:       Michael Baxter
                       Sector Manager:        C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
                    Task Team Leader:         Abdelmoula Ghzala


                                          11

                                                                                            FOROFFICIAJi USEONLY



                                                  REPUBLICOFANGOLA
                                    EmergencyMultisectorRecoveryProgram
                                                                    Phase1

                                                      TECHNICALANNEX

                                                                   Contents


  PART 1.   THE CONFLICT         .......................................................................................................................           1
      A      The end ofthe conflict ...............................................................................................................                 1
      B      Economic and social impact ofthe conflict...............................................................................                              2
      C                                                                                                                                                            6
             Responseo fthe intemational community .................................................................................
             Strategy of the government........................................................................................................
      D ....                                                                                                                                                       7

  PART2 .   BANKRESPONSEAND STRATEGY                                   ...................................................................................         8
       A                                                                                                                                                           8
       B                                                                                                                                                           8
      D ...  Reengaging with the Republic o fAngola..................................................................................
             Rationale for Bank involvement................................................................................................
             Lessons learned and reflectedinthe design o f the overall program and IDA-financedproject10

  PART3 .   DETAILEDPROGRAMAND PROJECTDESCRIPTION                                                              ..............................................     11
       A.    Programobjectives ..................................................................................................................                 11
      B .    Programphasing......................................................................................................................                 11
       C.    Programand project estimated costs and financing.................................................................                                    12
      D .    Programcomponents ...............................................................................................................                    14

  PART4 .   IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS                                         ..........................................................................         26
       A     Implementationperiod.............................................................................................................                    26
      B ..                                                                                                                                                        26
             Project implementation andmanagement structure.................................................................
             Capacity o f the government to execute the project..................................................................
       C.                                                                                                                                                         26
      D .    Procurement and disbursement arrangements..........................................................................                                  27
       E.    Financial management arrangements and audits                            .....................................................................        32
       F.
       G.    Monitoring and evaluation .......................................................................................................
             Supervision .............................................................................................................................. 34
                                                                                                                                                                  34
       H.    Coordination o f donors............................................................................................................
       I.    Environmental aspectsand compliance with the World Bank Safeguard Policies.,                                                          ................35
                                                                                                                                                                  35


  PART5 . AND RISKS
            BENEFITS                          ........................................................................................................           36




This document has a restricteddistributionand may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Balds authorization                       .        .

TABLES

   Table 1.       Priority Phasecosts and IDA projects contribution ........................................................                            12
   Table 2        Program and Project costsbyphase................................................................................                      13
   Table 3  ..     IDA contributionto the Phase 1project..........................................................................                      13
   Table 4:       Rural development cost summary                  ...................................................................................   16
   Table 5:       Rural development key performance indicators                           .............................................................  18
   Table 6:       Healthservices cost summary               ......................................................................................... 20
   Table 7:       Healthkeyperformance indicators                  ..................................................................................   21
   Table 8:       Education cost summary            ................................................................................................. 22
   Table 9:       Water supply cost summary              ............................................................................................   24
   Table 10:      Water supply key performance indicators                     .......................................................................   24
   Table 11:      Thresholds for procurement methods and prior review                                .................................................. 29
   Table 12:      Phase 1project costsbyprocurement arrangements                               .......................................................  30

MAP

   Targeted Provinces ................................................................................................................................. 9

Figures

Figure 1:Organization o fproduction and multiplication o f seeds and vegetative material........................                                        16




   This document hasa restricteddistributionand may be usedbyrecipientsonly inthe performance of
   their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankauthorization                                                  .




                                                                       iv

                                         REPUBLICOFANGOLA
                                Emergency Multisector Recovery Program
                                                    Phase 1


                                        PART 1-THE CONFLICT

A.       The end of the conflict

1,       The prospects for lastingpeaceinAngola are now better than they have been for decades. In
April 2002 the representatives ofthe govemment andofUni2oNacional para IndependhciaTotalde
Angola (UNITA) signed a ceasefire and peaceagreement. Incontrast to agreements signed in 1991and
1994, this agreement has beenrespected. UNITAhas officially ceasedto be a rebelmovement and has
transformed itself into a legalpoliticalparty inanticipationo fthe elections that are plannedfor 2005 or
2006.

2.       Angola remains as a resourcerich, butpolicy poor Low Income Country Under Stress(LICUS).
Nevertheless, since the signingo fthe peaceagreement on April 4,2002, there has been steady progress in
several areas inthe country. Political stability i s established throughout the country and the Govemment
i s recognizedby all parties and has remained cohesive and functioning since the ceasefire agreement. The
reconciliation process canbe considered to a large extent homegrown, with limitedparticipationo f
extemal mediators. UNITAparliamentarians are fully integrated into the National Assembly and the
President o f the Republic has announcedpresidential elections for 2006. There have beenno major
changes inthe cabinet since 2002 and the Govemment has beeninclose contact withthe World Bank and
the IMF on issues related to public financial management and fiscal discipline overall. The economy has
benefited from higher international oil prices andthe prospect i s that oil production will double over the
nexttwo years, reachingsome 2 millionbarrelsper day by early 2007. The favorable economic outlook
has also attracted a significant volume o f Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). Inaddition, several measures
have beentaken since 2002 to address public finance management issues and some positive results are
beginningto materialize. The Govemment has also concluded its PRSP (Estrategia de Combate A
Pobreza, ECP), which establishespriorities for public spending on social strategic areas. The estimated
costs o f the strategy have been incorporated into the 2005 budget and there are already ongoing
interventions for targeted vulnerable groups.

3,       The level and quality o f dialogue with the Bretton Woods Institutions (BWJJhas improved
considerably. The President o f the Republic visited the World Bank and the IMF inMay 2004 and asked
for support from both institutions to help Angola consolidate macroeconomic stabilization andmeet its
reconstructionchallenges after a 27-year long civil war that ended in2002. With greater and more explicit
political commitment, the relationshipbetweenthe Angolan Govemment and the BWIshas improved
substantially since the two short-lived SMPs o f2000 and 2001, which went off-track inboth
macroeconomic and structural areas. Joint missions bythe Bank and the Fundvisited Angola inFebruary
and July o f 2004 and there hasbeen effective cooperation from the authorities indisclosing all the
required information. A Staff MonitoredProgram(SMP) i s expected to be agreedon by end-2004 with
the aim o f supporting the sustainability of the country's macroeconomic stabilization. The Bank has also
discussedwith the authorities a Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
(PEMFAR) which is guidingan important sector o fthe policy dialogue inthe context o f the SMP
negotiations. Some of the measuresrecommended inthe Bank's PEMFAR are already being implemented
bythe authorities, as for example those relatedto the management ofthe fiscal accounts, the extemal
debt, andthe quasi-fiscal operations performed by the state oil company (Sonangol).

4.       Significant progress has been made towards macroeconomic stabilization over the last year.
Major achievements include: a decline inthe 2-month rate o f inflation to below 27% in September 2004
from levels persistentlyinexcess of 100%inprevious years; a downward trend inthe fiscal deficit,
benefiting recently from higher oil prices; a decline inthe non-oil fiscal deficit; positive real interest rates
for govemment debt; a decline inmoney supply growth (M3) to a 15% levelinJuly 2004 compared to a
40% growth rate inJuly 2003, and a considerable deceleration inthe rate o f depreciation o fthe kwanza

exchange rate. There has also been a consistent improvement inthe current account balance since 2000
mirroring growing oil export values. The strategy usedto defend the kwanza, however, based on central
bank sales o f foreign exchange, has kept the level of foreign exchangereserveslow, they are only
sufficient to cover for 1montho f imports.

B.       Economic and social impact of the conflict

5.       Angola's nearly 30 years of civil conflict have had devastating effects on the country's economy,
infrastructure, and citizen's quality o flife. While accurate data are lacking, it is estimated that over 1
million people may have beenkilled since the armed conflict beganbetween rival groups following
independence in 1975. The conflict also displaced about 4 million people, about one-third o fthe
country's 13 millioncitizens (UNestimates as o fApril 2003). About 100,000 o f these are
unaccompanied children. Most o fthe displaced fledto Luanda, Lobito, and other coastal cities. They
live insqualid conditions inovercrowded urban and semi-urban areas without functioning healthand
water and sanitation infrastructure and without adequate social services. The potential for epidemics i s
high. Itis also likelythat the number ofpeople infectedbyHIV/AIDSisrisingrapidlydue to the
movement o fpeople and lack o fHIV/AIDS awareness. The situationi s becoming even more complex as
millions o f intemally displaced people are nowreturningto their provinces o f origin, and many resident
communities, themselves severely affected by the war, are strugglingto cope withthe suddeninflux of
returnees.

6.       Although available data indicatethat urbanpoverty has worsened inrecent years due to a large
extent to the influxo f migrants from rural areas fleeing insecurity, poverty is still deeper and more
widespread inrural areas. Inmany areas, the recent drought and the limited availability o f seeds,
fertilizers and other agricultural inputshave combined to createwidespread food shortages. Many people
inthe worst affectedprovinces are still suffering from severemalnutrition and famine. Healthservices
are nonexistent or inaccessible for the great majority o frural dwellers. Conflict has destroyed water and
sanitation systems throughout the country. Encouragingly, inareas that havebeen opened up to road
traffic as security improves, livingconditions appearto be gettingbetter as humanitarianaidreaches
previously isolatedcommunities and food becomesmore available.

7.       Nearlythree decadeso f conflict have left the nation's infrastructure inshambles. The majorityof
roads and airstrips are impassable or insecure. Moreover, some 5-7 millionlandmines situated
throughout the nation limitmovement and threaten the lives and welfare o f Angolans. The most affected
provinces include BiC, Huambo, Moxico, Lunda NorteandLunda Sul, Uige, Cuando Cubango, and
Malanje.

Poverty and social indicators

8.       Angola ranks 166thout o f 177 countries on UNDP's HumanDevelopment Index (HDI) for 2004,
and attainingthe Millennium Development Goals i s a distant dream. Per capita income totaled about
US$710 peryear in2002.' Over two-thirds o f Angolans live on lessthan US$2 per day. Nearlyone in
four Angolans i s extremelypoor, survivingon less than US$0.75 a day. Angola's economy needs to
grow by about 7.3 percent a year just to keep the number o fpoor from increasing.

9.       Angola's social indicators are among the worst inthe world. Atjust 40.1 years, Angola also has
one of the lowest life expectancies inthe world. Malnutrition i s acute; about 45 percent of children under
age 5 suffer from stunting(low height-for-age) and 31percent are underweight. The under-five mortality
rate, estimated at 260 per 1,000 live births inthe 2002 multiple indicator survey and the infantmortality
rate at 150per 1,000 live births(compared with 91 for Sub-SaharanAfr-ica as a whole) place Angola at
the bottomofthe worldrankings. The maternalmortalityrate in2000 o f 1,700 maternaldeathsper
100,000 live births is also extremely high. Primary school enrollment i s among the lowest inAfrica; in
the regions most affected bythe war just 25 percent o f children are enrolled inprimary school. Only 27
'   Calculatedusingthe World BankAtlas method.
                                                      2

percent o f students who enter grade one complete grade four. The limited access to education has lef?70
percent o f adult men and 80 percent o f women unable to read, write, or performbasic computations.

Macroeconomic conditions

10.      Angola has struggledfor years with an unstable macro-economy. A successiono f failed or only
partially successful stabilizationplans characterized Angola's policy history since its first major attempts
to stabilize in 1987. Since 1987, the government has pursued a series o f programs to move from the
command economy introducedat independenceto a more market-based structure, butprogress has been
slow (inflation briefly reached 12,000 percent in 1996). During2001-03, inflationaveraged 100percent
which, while a marked improvement over performance of the 1990s, i s still highby international
standards. Renewed efforts by the government since 2003 have brought the rate o f inflationdown to
below 50 percent, and inflationis expected to is expected to average 3 0 4 0 percent for 2004. However,
external debt levels continue to rise indollar terms, internationalreservesare low, andthe potential cost
competitiveness ofAngola's goods has fallen. Gross domestic product (GDP) grew by about 3%percent
in2003, somewhat better than the populationgrowthrate of3 percent. Withhigheroilproduction and
prices, the rate o f GDP growthin2004 may increaseto over 10 percent.

11.      Angola's immense oil wealth has not contributed to sound macroeconomic management. While
the oil revenues give rise to abalance o ftrade surplus, repatriation o frevenues by foreign oil companies
operating inAngola and other transfer payments result ina significant current account deficit (-15 percent
o f GDP in2001, estimated -5.8 percent o f GDP in2002). Similarlyinthe fiscal domain, while oil
provides the bulk (80 percent) ofa relatively highlevel o fnational revenues (an estimated 39 percent
GDP in2002), even non-interest expenditure i s muchhigher. Wheninterest on accumulated debt is
added, the overall fiscal deficit i s over 10percent o fGDP (an estimated -9 percent o f GDP in2002). The
authorities are inthe difficult position o fneeding to substantially increaserecurrent expenditure for
education, health, and poverty reduction programs, increase capital expenditure, and simultaneously
reduce the overall budget deficit. Unless and untilfiscal balance i s restored, the underlying inflationary
momentum inthe economy will continue, undermining attempts to raise national savings and investment
and achieve higher levels of economic growth and standards o f living.

12.      The authorities are now fully committedto improvingtheir management o fthe economy. They
have recently intensifiedtheir dialogue withthe IMF, initiatingdiscussions inJuly 2004 on a new staff
monitoredprogram. They are also increasingly acknowledgingpublicly the problems with
macroeconomic management and transparency that have slowed growth. Important inroads have been
made ingranting public accessto sensitive reports and information, notably through publication o fthe Oil
Diagnostic Study and the sharing with partners, including the Bank, o f the auditedaccounts o f Sonangol
(the state oil company) and o fthe central bank. Progress has also beenmade to address the issues o f
quasi-fiscal and extra-budgetary spending. Nevertheless, muchmore needsto be madeto improve public
financial management systems and practices, as laidout inthe Public ExpenditureManagement and
Financial Accountability Review. It is expected that the authorities will move decisively to implement
the financial management actionplanto substantially improve financial management ofpublicresources.

Rural development, health services, and education

13.      Agriculturefaces many challenges. Although Angola has substantial potential to develop a
diverse agricultural economy, the lack of roads and other transportation infrastructure, displacement o f
farmers and loss o flivestock, and collapse o f commercial agriculture andrural marketing have prevented
this potential from beingrealized. Agriculture, forestry, and fishingin2001contributedlessthan 8
percent o f GDP. Froma net exporter of food before independence, the country inrecent years has
producedlessthan halfits food requirements, depending on humanitarian aid and commercial imports for
the remainder. Angola produces only 20-30 percent o f its annual demand for seeds and planting
materials, and imports are able to fillonly an additional 20 percent o f demand. Producingand
multiplyingseedsadaptedto the agro-climatic conditions o fthe country is criticalto enable the 60 percent
of Angolans who depend on agriculture for food and income to restart their production. Other more
                                                        3

comprehensive services will have to be developed for the next stages o fthe country rehabilitationand
development to foster a sustainablereduction inruralpoverty.

14.      Health, The healthconditions inthe country are dismal. Angola's population i s burdenedby
nutritionaldeficiencies and infectious and parasitic diseases. Malaria, respiratory infections, diarrhea
diseases, measles, and cholera are the maincauses o f illness and death. Sleeping sicknesshasreemerged
as a major killer inthe northwest. Reliable data on HIV/AIDS inAngola are lacking. However, proxy
measuresindicate that the epidemic is well established and that it has already reached the explosive phase
inLuandaand some other areas. The government isparticularly concernedwiththe highinfantmortality
and the rising maternalmortality rate. The maincauses o f death for women are malaria, hemorrhage,
eclampsia, and complications o fabortion andprolongedlabor. These causes are commonly associatedto
poverty and to the lack o f access to adequatereproductive health services.

15.      Less than 35 percent o fthe population has access to a hnctioning healthfacility located within
five kilometers from their home. Many public health centerslack equipmentfor diagnosis and treatment
and transport and communications, essential drugs, andbasic supplies. Healthproviders are often poorly
trained, nor are incentives inplace to reward good performance. The Ministry o fHealthaims to upgrade
the skills o fhealthproviders and to correct the imbalance inthe geographical distribution o fhealth
workers.

16.      Education. Angola spends a smaller percentageo fpublic resourceson education than any other
country o f Sub-SaharanAfhca (only 7 percent o fthe total public budget comparedto an average o f 17
percent inSub-SaharanAfrica), although about 59 percent o fthe total populationi s below 25 years o f
age. Access to education at all levels o fthe system i s severely constrained and educational quality i s very
poor. As a result, Angola has one o fthe lowest rates o f literacy inSub-SaharanAfrica. Only 30 percent
of the populationcan read and write and only 20 percent o f women can.

17.      Access to education. Angola's primary school gross enrollment rate is 54 percent (about 1.1
million students ingrades 1-4 and 213,000 ingrades 5      - 6).'Inprovincesmostaffectedbythe war the
gross enrollment rate barely reaches 30 percent. About 1.2 million school-age children have never been
to school, equivalent to 25 percent o f the population aged 5 - 18 years. The school pyramidi s wide at the
bottomandnarrow at the top. While grades 1     - 4 account  for 75 percent o f student enrollment, higher
education accounts for less than 1percent.

18.      Quality of education. The quality o f education is poor. About 50 percent o f schools offer three
shifts per day, which limitstime inthe classroom to a mere three hours per day. The percentage o f
teacherswith either partial or no qualifications ranges from 50 to 100 percent insome schools.
Pedagogical and in-service support for unqualified teachers i s limitedor nonexistent and classroom
teaching and learningmaterials are rarely available inschools. Finally, most primary schools buildings
are inpoor condition. Insome provinces school buildingswere completely destroyed, while inothers the
absence o fpublic investment left them severely dilapidated. Most schools lack basic classroom furniture.

19.      InAugust2001, thegovernment developeda 15-yearplanto improvethe educationsystem
(Estratkgia Integrada para a Melhoria do Sistema de Educacao, 2001-2015). The planproposes to
increase access and improve the quality o f education at all levels, inthree distinct phases: (a) an
emergency phase oftwo years, (b) a stabilization phase o f four years, and (c) a system expansion and
development phaseof nine years. Duringthe first phase, the government places particular emphasis on
revivingbasic education inthe areas most affected by the civil war, whichare the ones with the lowest
educational attainment.




    Ministry ofEducationand Culture.
                                                      4

Transportation infrastructure

20.      Roads. The war and neglect have taken their toll on the roadnetwork. It i s estimated that some
80 percent o fthe roadnetwork i s invery badcondition. Inmany places the network i s completely
interrupted. The end o f civil war has openedthe way for a large increase inroad transport, and about 50
percent o f the primary roadnetwork has been reopenedto traffic accordingto government estimates. A
relatively large fleet o fvehicles (mainly trucks) ownedbybothprivate and public transport firms provide
services. Rates for road transport are very highby internationalstandards, and are only slightly less than
those for air transport.

21.      Air transportation. Since 1975, air transport has providedthe only reliable mode o f transport
withinAngola. Besides the state-owned carrier Transportadora ACrea Angolana (TUG), whichhas a
monopoly for regular scheduled flights withinAngola, some 25 other operators provide servicesbetween
18 provincial airports and numerous municipal and private airfields inthe country. Flightsafety i s
substandard, and sometimes precarious, becauseo fthe bad condition o fmany runways, the poor
condition or absence o fnavigationand communications equipment at many airports, and inadequate
aircraft maintenance. Angola's air transport authority does not have sufficient resources and capacity to
fully and effectively carry out its functions.

22.      Rail. Angola's three railway lines connected Angola's three major ports to the interior. All these
routes are now closed apart from a few short-haul services near the ports. Destroyed bridges, damage
from the war, and neglect has left large portions o f the network impassable. The government committed
about US$lOO million from its own resourcesto reopenparts o f the three main rail lines. Three operators
are currently carrying out limitedworks to expand the useable track.

23.      Ports. Angola's three general cargo ports (Luanda, Lobito, Namibe) continuedto function
normally throughout the war. The Malongo oil terminal inCabinda serves as an important port for the oil
industry. Port traffic fell sharply following independence,but dueto transport o foil, has substantially
recovered.

Other infrastructure

24.      Electricity services. The electricity supply system inAngola has deteriorated during the last 30
years. The mainhydroelectric plants andtransmission lines of the systemwere builtduringthe 1970s,
and important parts o f the system are out o f service due to war damage and lack o f investment and
maintenance. Some areas previously served are today without electricity services. Inthe areas that still
have electricity, includingLuanda, power failures and loadshedding are frequent, and firms and
households that can affordto rely heavily on small-scale diesel generators. The electricity supply systems
inAngola consist ofthree separateintegrated systemsand severalisolatedsmaller systems. The northern
interconnected system covers Luanda and the most populatedcities o f Bengo, Malanje, KwanzaNorte
and Kwanza Sul provinces. The central interconnected system covers the populatedcenters o f Benguela
and Huambo provinces. The southern interconnected system covers the populatedcenters o fHuila and
Namibe provinces.

25.      Water and sanitation services in Luanda. Only about 38 percent ofAngolans have access to safe
water, (well belowthe 55 percent average for Sub-SaharanAhca), and 44 percent have access to
adequatesanitation service^.^ Empresa de Agua da Provincia de Luanda (EPAL), the water utilityserving
Luandacovers only 30 percent o f the metropolitanpopulation. The remainder rely on untreated river
water brought into the capital by tanker, paying prices per cubic meter 50 times the pricepaidby those
connected to EPAL's network (the average tariff o f EPAL i s US$0.20 per cubic meter). A combined
pluvial and sewage collection systembuilt during the colonial times serves Luanda's urban core, and
discharges directly into the Luanda bay. Elsewhere sewage is disposed o f inseptic tanks, leaching pits, or

    World DevelopmentIndicatorsdatabase.
                                                       5

directly into the streets and gutters o f the city. As water consumption rises, the pressure on the sewerage
system will increase commensurately.

26.      Water and sanitation sewices outside of Luanda. Water and sanitation systems have totally
collapsed inthe areas most affected by the war, includingMalanje, Kwito, and N'Dalatando, where most
households are served by either their own wells or by high-priced water tanker. Eveninurban areas that
escapeddirect war damage, a lack o f investment and maintenance inwater supply limitsservices to a
small proportion o fthe population. Inprovincial cities the water utilities serve only about 30 percent o f
the population. About 61percent ofthe urbanpopulationhasaccessto some sanitation service, with 18
percent connected to a sewer and the remainder relying on septic tanks, latrines, and leachingpits. Only
four provincialcapitals-Huambo,       Lubango, Lobito and Benguela-have sanitary sewers. Only two,
Lobito and Benguela which have benefitedfrom a World Bank-supported project completedin2000,
have the capacity to treat sewage. According the WHO-UNICEF only 40 percent o frural inhabitants in
Angola have access to safe water and 30 percent have accessto improved sanitation. Currently, the
national directorate o f water estimatesthat 3,300 water supplypoints have been installed inthe rural
areas, but many o fthem are inoperative due to lack o f maintenance.

27.      Urban streets and drainage. Lack o f maintenance, and problems with drainage and erosion have
underminedmany urban streets, leaving pavements inthe main urbancentersina state o f virtual collapse.
Lack o fproper drainage also contributes to landslides, which threaten life and damageproperty.

C.       Strategy of the government

28.      The government's overriding objectives for the next four years are to consolidate peace, enhance
national reconciliation and improve security by extending state administrationto all areas o f the country;
bringrapidimprovements infood security and livingconditions for the most vulnerable andmost war-
affected groups, especially those sufferingfrom malnutritionand disease; create safe and hospitable
conditions for the retum o f displaced people to their regions o f origin; and start rebuilding social services,
These objectives will be achievedby deliveringbasic social services to both urbanand rural dwellers;
improvingtransportation infrastructure to facilitate the free movement o fpeople and goods; and adopting
measuresto stimulate the rural economy, such as improvingthe climate for investment inagriculture,
mining, andrural industries.

29.      The delivery o f servicesrequires an appropriate transport and logistics strategy and investment,
supported by an urgentdeminingaction plan devised inconjunction withthe planning o f social services.
The government recognizes that providingadequate social services will take time. Itplans to follow a
gradual and phased approach to providing services, focusing first on meetingthe most urgent needs o f the
population with minimally-acceptable levels of service, while starting the rehabilitationo f infrastructure
that will allow the provision o f higher levels o f service over time.

30.      Thepoverty reduction strategy. The government with the assistanceo fUNDP and the Bank is in
the process o f finalizing its poverty reduction strategy (Estrattgia de Combate a Pobreza ECP). About
US$3.2 billion i s required to fully fundthe program. The government is already implementingmany
priority activities specified inthe ECP usingits own resources. Once the consultations with donors are
completedand the ECP, inits final version, is approved by the cabinet, the government intends to submit
the ECP to a donor conference for support now planned for September 2005.




                                                         6

                                                            6%




Source: "Estratbgia de Combate A Pobreza," Ministryof Planning, 2004.

31.       Therehabilitation and reconstruction program and itspriority stage. Neglect, mismanagement,
and damage from the war have ledto the near collapse o f critical infrastructure and capacity o f
government to deliver basic services or carry out government functions. The rehabilitation and
reconstructionprogram comprises two overlapping stages. The first stage, called the priority stage
(PPMW), i s beingimplementedduring 2003-08, and covers about 70 percent o f the costs identifiedin
the ECP.

32.      The overall purpose of the PPMRRP is to consolidate peace and reestablish state administration
throughout the country, and to initiate the mediumand long-termprocess o freconstructionand economic
rehabilitation. The specific objectives are (a) to address the immediate needs o f the poorest people and
displaced population(includingfacilitating the returnandresettlement o f an estimated 3 million people
who are voluntarily returning to their regions of origin); (b) to rapidly improve the quality o f life o f
people living inbothrural and urban areas by expanding accessto vitalpublic services; (c) to reestablish
critical transportation linksthroughout the country and, inparticular, to reconnect the provinces most
affectedbythe war-BiC,      Huambo, Moxico, LundaNorte and Lunda Sul, Uige, Cuando Cubango and
Malanje-to    the rest o fthe country; (d) to enhance food security and start to revive the ruraleconomy,
especially inthe provinces most affectedbywar; and (e) to strengthen capacity o f government at all
levels to formulate, prepare, implement, and manage mediumand long-term development programs.

D.       Responseofthe internationalcommunity

33.      Duringmost ofthe years ofcivil conflict, development partners limitedtheir assistanceto Angola
to humanitarian aid and support for basic education, health, and water and sanitation services, efforts to
combat HIV/AIDS, smallholder agriculture, demining, and activities such as improving economic
management and promoting good governance and democracy. Donors increased their support following
the signingo f the Lusaka protocol in 1994, but scaledback when the peace agreement failed to hold.
Since the signingo f the peace agreement in2002, development partners have resumed their support for
economic recovery and development o f Angola. UnitedNations agencies are helpingthe government
with a variety ofprograms designed to create conditions for lastingpeace, includingprograms to clear
mines, resettle war-displaced persons, andreintegrate ex-combatants into civilian life. They are also
providing assistancefor health, nutrition, agriculture, education, andtraining. The African Development
Bank, following the clearance o f arrears in2001, is supporting basic education, health, agriculture,
fisheries, and basic infrastructure. The European Commission is focusing on activities to further the
peaceprocess, to promote good governance and development o f civil society, and to improve delivery o f
social services and food security. Bilateraldonors, includingthe United States, Spain, Italy, Portugal,
                                                       7

France, Sweden, Norway, the UnitedKingdom, and the Netherlands are supporting health and nutrition
services, agriculture, provision of safe drinkmgwater supplies, demining, strengthening o f
macroeconomic management and statistical systems. Bilateral aidi s still modest and channeled primarily
outside o f government structures.

PART 2 -BANK RESPONSEAND STRATEGY

A.        Reengaging with the Republic of Angola

34.       Duringthe 1990sthe Bankapprovedelevenprojects for Angola, all insupport ofpeaceinitiatives
that ultimately disintegrated. Inmid-1999 the Bank scaledback its assistanceprogramto Angola in
responseto unstable economic conditions, the resumption o f fighting, a shrinkingportfolio, and poor
prospects for new lending. Angola is currently a pilot country under the Low-Income Countries Under
Stress (LICUS) initiative. Support inthe context o fthe initiative i s aimed at increasing the transparency
o fnaturalresource revenue management, improvingservice delivery, and strengthening capacity for
public financial management, statistics, and procurement. The Bank approved one project in2000, the
Second Social Action Fund, which is rated satisfactory.

35.       The Bank started to reengage inAngola with the signingo fthe 2002 peace accords. Itpresented
its Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) for Angola inMarch2003, covering 15 months untilJune 2004.
The TSS is designed to support Angola's complex transition from a war-torn society to a stable,
democratic, prosperous state. Technical assistanceto the government to helpprepare the PPMRPP was
part o f the TSS. Implementation o f the TSS hasproceeded with slight delays, withthree projects
approved in2003 (Economic Management Technical Assistance Project, Emergency Demobilization and
ReintegrationProject, and Third Social Action Fund). The HIVIAIDS, Malaria, and Sexually
Transmitted Infections, and Tuberculosis Project (HAMSET) is expectedto be approved inDecember
2004.

B.        Rationale for Bank involvement

36.       Angola, with vast petroleum, mineral, and other natural resources, could potentially be one o f
Africa's richest countries. Insteadweak policies, institutions, and governance and a lack o f capacity or
inclination to use finance effectively to reduce poverty have made it one o f Africa's poorest. Inaddition,
its civil conflict and its role inthe conflicts of its neighbors have contributed to instability inthe entire
region.

37.       The peace agreement offers Angola an opportunity to rebuild its shatteredeconomy and to
establish a stable, democratic, andjust society. The World Bank Group will play a critical role inhelping
Angola to recover and develop byproviding substantial financial resources for rehabilitationand delivery
o f social services. Perhapsmore importantly, it will also help buildcapacity o fboththe government and
nongovernmental organizations; support efforts to establish the policy, legal andregulatory frameworks
that promote good governance and economic growth; and formulate the economic and sector strategies
for amedium and long-term development program. No other institution has the resources, know-how and
experience that the Bankhas to prepare, implement,and supervise such a large, complex project as the
proposed Emergency Multisector Recovery Program (EMRP). The extensive experience o fthe Bank in
post-conflict countries, inemergency multisector reconstructionprograms and inAngola itselfon
community driven development andreintegration o f ex-combatants insociety will be drawn upon. Bank
involvement will also help guarantee a focus on reducingpoverty.

38.       Bank involvement will also help inmobilizingresources from other donors and incoordinating
various inputs and contributions. Coordination is essential to ensure coherence o f the overall priority
reconstruction program and the smooth implementation o f the project. This i s consistent with the
expected Bank role and its value added within the LICUS approach.


                                                          8

C.      Bank strategy

39.     The proposed program will support a carefully sequenced set o f activities that can be completed
within a relatively short period and that will lay the foundation for future support. The programwill
focus support insix o f Angola's most war-affected provinces, as agreed between the Bank and the
government. These are BIC, MOX'ICO,      Kwanza Norte, Luanda, Uige and Malanje (Map 1). Appendix I1
provides profiles for five o f the selected Provinces. Inaddition to being among those most affected by the
war, these provlnces have also receivedmuchless public resources than others. They are home to about
58 percent o f Angola's population and are expected to receive some 30 percent of the internally displaced
people returning home.

                                         Map 1: TargetedProvinces




40.     About 18 percent o f the proposed program`s resources are for delivery of health services and
education. This will help address people's most urgent needs and lay the foundations for longer-term
programs. About 6 percent o f resources would directly support rural development, mainly through seed
multiplication and distribution and improvement o f rural feeder roads to help farmers obtain critical
inputs and market their outputs. Another 20 percent o f the program's resources are for rehabilitation of
transportation infrastructure, withthe priority given to roads and bridges. Reestablishing transportation
linksisvital to stabilize the economy and promote economic recovery includingintherural areas, and to
ensure that the inputs needed for reconstruction o f infrastructure inother sectors can be delivered on time
and at reasonable cost. About 37 percent of the resources are for rehabilitation of electricity and water
supply systems, and for stabilizationofurban structures against natural disasters. This will help improve

                                                        9

health o f the population, and stimulate growth o f enterprises. Another 6 percent is for capacity building
and analytical and advisory services. Finally, 7 percent i s allocated to program managementand
monitoringo fthis complex program.

41.     The activities that comprise the proposedEMRPhavebeen selectedbecausethey:

        0    Are consistent withthe strategieso f the government and of the Bank.
        0    Address the most urgent needs and priorities for social services and economic recovery.
        0    Support good governance and effective decentralization.
        0    Support activities that complement those o f other donors.
        0    Are likely to mobilize additional donor support.
        0    Are relatively simple and straightforward to implement.

D.      Lessons learned and reflected in the design of the overall program and IDA-financed
project

42.     Five key lessonsare reflected inthe programdesign:

        0    Activities are beingdesigned comprehensively and inan integrated manner to ensure
             coherence and synergy betweensectors. Inaddition, work onroads, water supply systems,
             electricity, and the like will be closely coordinated to ensure that work i s properly sequenced
             and that bottlenecks are minimized.

        0    Government agencies are deeply involvedinthe preparation o f the activities and will be
             involvedinimplementation. This will buildownership and capacity to undertake future
             projects.

        0    Activities have been identified and designedwith the participationo f all key stakeholders,
             including civil society organizations andthe private sector, whenever feasible. This will help
             to ensure that resources are spent wisely and that benefits are widely shared.

         0   Only the highest priority tasks have beenselectedfor the EMRPgiven the limitedabsorptive
             capacity and the constraints to secure full financing for the program.

         0   GivenAngola's limitedadministrative capacity, and to allow the government to build
             capacity over time, adequate temporary implementation arrangements have been designed.




                                                        10

PART 3 -DETAILED PROGRAM AND PROJECTDESCRIPTION

A.      Programobjectives

43.     The overall purpose o fthe proposedEmergency Multisector Reconstruction Program(EMRP) to
be implementedintwo phasesi s to help to buildthe foundation for long-term reconstruction, economic
rehabilitation, and the reestablishment o f state administrationthroughout the country. The specific
objectives o fthe program are to assist the government to (a) improve rural incomes and enhance food
security inthe provinces most affectedby the conflict, (b) improve access to essential education and
health services inthe provinces most affected bythe conflict, (c) reconstruct andrehabilitate critical
infrastructure, and (d) strengthen capacity o f government at all levels to formulate, prepare, implement,
and manage mediumand long-term development programs. These objectives are consistent with those o f
the ECP and with the PPMRRP. The proposedprogram i s the contribution o fthe Bank to the PPMRRP.
Phase 1o f the proposed program (EMRP) is the project.

44.     The EMRP will help revive the economy and reintegrate the country by restoringvital
transportation links and supporting provision o f basic public services to the population. It will help
prevent the further deterioration o f healthand loss o f life o f citizens by deliveringhealthcare and other
basic services, restoring water supply services, and improvingpublic health conditions incities. Itwill
helpto reducepoverty among bothruralandurbanresidentsby stimulating agricultural production and
reducing the costs and time o f transporting food from producers to markets. Over the mediumand longer
terms, it will benefit the people o fAngola byhelpingto create an improved legal andregulatory
framework and more stable and effective institutions-critical conditions for better governance. Finally,
itwill help support the development ofthepolicyandinstitutionalreforms neededfor the country's
medium and long-term development.

 B.      Programphasing

45.     Recent constraints on IDA 13 resourcesfor fiscal 2005 require the Bank to finance the programin
two phases, withthe secondphaseplannedto be submittedfor Boardconsideration when IDA 14 funds
become available. The programhas thus been split into two coherent, self-standing, and complementary
phases. The first phaseproject o fUS$92 million equivalent i s fully fundedwith support o f IDA 13
resources (IDA contribution o fUS$50.7 million equivalent o f which US$24.9 million inthe form o f an
IDA credit andUS25.8 million inthe form of an IDA grant) and will beimplementedduring fiscal
years 2005-08, closing onDecember 31,2007. The foreseen secondphase o fUS$213 million equivalent
for which IDA financing could amount to some US$150 million when IDA 14 funds will become
available i s expected to be submittedfor Board consideration withinnine to twelve months o fBoard
approval o f Phase 1. At this stage, Phase 2 has been foreseento be implementedduring fiscal 2006-2010,
closing on December 3 1,2009.

46.      Duringits first phase, the programwill focus on supporting activities that address the mosturgent
needsand can be implemented quickly. These include (a) activities to restart agriculture (particularly
productionand multiplicationo f seeds andplantingmaterial), (b) provisiono f essential drugs, logistical
support, and refresher courses for nurses and auxiliary nurses to improve health services, (c) provision o f
teaching and learning materials and assistanceto initiate teachers' training, and (d) support to restore
water services inLuanda and three provincialcapitals. Itwill also support (a) technical assistanceand
capacity buildingfor sector ministries and agencies involvedinimplementingthe programand the
project, (b) initial training programs, and (c) technical assistanceto buildlocal capacity to prepare for
decentralization, and (d) preparationo f the environmental and social impact assessment for the overall
program and the social and environmental management plan for the Phase 1project. Finally, it will
finance the management, monitoring and evaluationof the implementation o fPhase 1, support for
implementationo f the national demining strategy and actionplanwhich are beingupdated, demining
actions critical for successful implementation o f Phase'1project activities, and engineering studies
(detailed design, tender documents) andpreparatory activities for Phase2 o f the proposedprogram.
                                                      11

  47.          Itis anticipated that duringits secondphase, the programwill support rehabilitation or
  construction o f schools, and health facilities, and rehabilitation o frural feeder roads, trunkroads,
  electricity services, rural water and complement water supply ina provincial capital, and urban
  infrastructure. Itwill also support the preparation of the medium-termsector strategies, capacity building,
  a decentralization pilot, and continuing support for programandproject management.

  C.           Programand projectestimatedcostsandfinancing

  48.          The PPMRRF' is estimated to cost about US$1,997 million (inclusive o f taxes and contingencies)
  (Table 1). The proposed EMW is estimated to cost about US305 million (see Tables 1and 2). IDA
  financing (Phase 1and Phase 2) could amount to some US$201million equivalent (including
  contingencies), about 66 percent of the costs o fthe EMRP and some 10percent o fthe cost o f the
  PPMRRP. The government will finance about 30 percent ofthe program costs, including taxes and
  duties. Other donors (EU, UNDP, and the FrenchCooperation) are committed to finance some 3 percent.
  At this stage, about 25 percent ofthe costs ofPPMRRPremainunhded. Financingwillbe sought from
  other multilateral donors andbilateral donors to cover the gap through parallel financing. This will be
  done through a donor meetingon the ECP and the PPMRRP plannedfor September 2005.

  Table 1.                  PriorityPhasecostsandIDA projectscontrit tion
                                                                                            esponse with Government and IDA projects


'riority Phase Multisector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program(PPMRRP)                'hirdSocial               EMRl

                 Detailed costs incluslveof taxes and contingencies                         ction Fund          Phase 1           Phase2

omponents                                                                        US%million  (US%million)     (US$million)     (US%mllllon)

.Subprogram     Social sectorsand agriculture                                      792            120             20                73

     1. Agriculture                                                                 74                             5                12

    2. Health services                                                             174                             8                27

    3. Education                                                                   176                             6                34
    4. Reinsertion,socialprotection,ruraldevelopment& community development        368            120
.Subprogram     Priority rehabilitation of critical infrastructure                 1,125                          51                120

     1. Transport                                                                  122

    2. Roads & Bridges                                                             447                                              57

    3. Electricity                                                                 255                                              32
    4. Water supply                                                                199                            51                14
    5. Urban infrastructure& services                                              102                                              18


.Capacity   bullding, institutionalstrengthening& sector development strategies     29                             8                11

.Management&monitoring         of program 8!preparation of the second phase
                                                                                    51                            13                 9


otal PPMRRPcosts                                                                   1,997          120             92                213


  49.          The EMW is estimated to cost about US$305 million (see Tables 2 and 3). IDA financing
  (Phase 1and Phase2) could amount to someUS$201 millionequivalent including contingencies, about 66
  percent of the costs of the project and some 10percent of the cost o fthe PPMRRP (Table 1).




                                                                              12

Table 2.              ProgramandProjectcostsbyphase

                                                                                            %Total
                 Summary costsinclusiveoftaxesand Contingencies                             Program Phase1  Phase 2
Components                                                                    US$ million)   costs  Project Project
4. Rural development and deliveryofSocialServices                                 93         30%      20      73
           1. Rural Development                                                   17          6%      5       12
           2. Health Services                                                     35          12%     8       21
           3. Education                                                           40          13%     6       34


B. Rehabilitation and reconstructionof critical infrastructure                    171        56%      51     120
           1. Transport                                                                       0%      0       0
           2. Roads & Bridges                                                     57          19%     0       57
           3. Electricity                                                         32          10%     0       32
          4.Watersupply                                                           65          21%     51      14
           5. Urbaninfrastructure& services                                       18          6%      0       18


3. Sector development strategiesand strengtheningof human and institutional
:apacity                                                                          19          6%      8       11


3. Management, monitoring, evaluationand Preparationof SecondPhase                22          7%      13      9


                                                                                             100%  -  92      213

50.       Phase 1project of the EMRPi s estimated to cost about U S 9 2 million (see Table 3). IDA
financing i s estimated to be US$50.7 million equivalent including contingencies, about 56 percent ofthe
costs ofthe Phase 1activities. The govemment will finance about 35 percent of Phase 1costs, including
taxes and duties. Other donors (EU, UNDP and the FrenchCooperation) are committed to finance some
10percent.

Table3.              IDA contributionto the Phase 1project

             ProposedPhase1 Emergency Multisector RecoveryProject                           YOTotal
                 Summary costsinclusiveof taxesand contingencies                              Base   IDA     IDA
Components                                                                    US$ million)   costs  Credit   Grant
A. Rural developmentand delivery of Social Services                               20          21%     15
           1.RuralDevelopment                                                      5          6%      4
          2. HealthServices                                                         8         9%       6
          3. Education                                                              6         6%      4


B. Rehabilitation and reconstructionof critical infrastructure                    51          55%             26
           1. Transport                                                                       0%              0
          2. Roads& Bridges                                                                   0%              0
          3. Electricity                                                                      0%              0
          4.Watersupply                                                                       55%             26
          5. Urbaninfrastructure&services                                                     0%


C. Sector developmentstrategiesandstrengtheningofhuman andinstitutional
                                                                                    8

D. Management, monitoring,evaluationand Preparationof Second Phase                 13


                                                                                  92                          26
                                                               13

D.       Programcomponents

51.      The proposed programcomprises four components: (a) rural development and deliveryo f social
services; (b) rehabilitation and reconstruction o f critical infrastructure (roads andbridges, electricity,
water supply, andurban infrastructure); (c) capacity building, institutional strengthening and development
o f sector strategies; and (d) managementand monitoring o f the program and project, andpreparation o f
the next steps. The programhas beendesignedbasedon free-standing subprojects that fit within the
programbut that are not integrally linkedto other activities and that facilitate parallel financing
arrangements. IDA'Scontribution, duringPhase 1, to these four components constitutes the IDA financed
project (Tables 1,2 and 3 below).

ComponentA: Rural development and delivery of social services

52.     Rural development and delivery of social services (US93 million, Phase 1project is US$20
million of which theIDA credit will contribute US$15million under component A). This component will
finance support for rural development and for delivery o f health and education services inthe most war-
affectedprovinces, where delivery of services has been extremely poor. Community development and
social protection activities are covered under the ThirdSocial Action FundProject (US$120 million),
which was approved bythe Bank's Board inJuly 2003. Activities are designed to ensurethat
interventions inrural development, healthservices, education, and water and sanitation services are
integrated for maximum impact.

Rural development (US819million, Phase 1project is US7 million of whichIDA will contribute US$5
million under components A, C and 0)

53.      Objectives. The programaims to (a) help small farmers to restart their agriculturalproductionby
supporting the production and multiplication o fbasic and prebasic seeds and o fvegetative planting
materials; (b) buildcapacity of the researchand extension services; (c) buildcapacity o f the Ministryo f
Agriculture, particularly to coordinate activities, formulate strategy; and (d) facilitate marketing, through
the rehabilitation o f select feeder roads. Activities will take place primarily intwo provinces, Malanje
and Bit, becausethese provinces are major producers o f cassavaand maize, basic staples for Angolans.

54.     Phase 1project. Duringthe project (Phase l), will help to scale-up production ofbasic
                                                           activities
seeds (primarily maize) and vegetative materials at the Chiangaresearch center inHuambo province in
central Angola, and vegetative materials o f cassavaand sweet potato at the Malange research center inthe
northo fthe country. The research centerswill supply the seeds and vegetative material for multiplication
to farmers, to farmers' organizations, or to NGOs inMalange and BiCprovinces under arrangementsto be
agreedbetween the government, donors, NGOs, and other partners. Itwill also finance procurement o f
equipment for the laboratory inLuanda, for the local offices o fthe Institute o f Agriculture Development,
the Instituto de Investigapiio Agronomica (IIA), and Servipo Nationalde Sementes(SENSE). The project
will also support trainingand capacity buildingfor the technicians involved.

55.      The project will be implementedintwo stages: (a) production o fbasic seeds andprimary
vegetative planting materials, and (b) multiplicationo f improved quality seeds and vegetative planting
materials. The IIA will manage the first stage, and beresponsible for producingbasic material o f
improvedandwell-adapted varieties for the agro-ecological conditions o fthe central andnorthernregions o f
Angola. Currently, boththe Chianga and Malangeresearch centers are producingbasic seeds and
vegetative materials and have adequate staff and land. To scale-up the production the IIArequires:

     0   Agricultural equipment, such as tractors and respective tools; vehicles to transport technicians
         and goods; a seedprocessing unit; a water pump for irrigation system; rehabilitationo f offices; s
         storage facility; and equipment to equip a seeds lab.
     0   Agricultural inputs for the production of the basic seeds for the first three seasons.
     0   Training o f staff through short courses in-country and more in-depth courses outside the country.
                                                        14

56.     A partnership comprisingthe Institute of Agriculture Development, SENSE, NGOs, and farmers
will managethe secondstage. The secondstage is complex becauseitrequires effectivecoordination
between all participating actors, who must strictly observe the technical and procedural guidelines
developed by the IIA for multiplication o f seeds and vegetative materials. Support for the secondstage
requires:

    0   Rehabilitationo f 12 EstaqBode Desenvolvimento Agricolas inMalanje and BiC, which will
        include the offices, the warehouse, accommodation for technicians, communications equipment, a
        small seed processor, and cars and motorcycles for technicians; the studies and designs for the
        rehabilitation o f the EstaqBo de Desenvolvimento Agricolas will be preparedwithfunds from the
        Project Preparation Facilitybefore effectiveness, so that the civil works may start once the project
        becomes effective.
    0   Training and capacity buildingfor the technicians o f the Institute o f Agriculture Development.
    0   Rehabilitationof one SENSE's laboratoryinLuanda, two fieldoffices (inMelange and BiC), and
        motor cycles and cars to transport the technicians.
    0   Training and capacity buildingfor SENSE'Stechnicians.

57.     The approach for improved quality seed multiplication entails the following distribution of roles
and responsibilities:

    0   IIAwill produce andprovide the basic seeds andprimaryvegetative materials
        The Institute o f Agriculture Development, through its EstaqBode DesenvolvimentoAgricolas,
        andpartner NGOs willjointly identify and select potential multipliers around the selectedregions
        inMalanjeandBie?
    0   NGOswill engage the private and small multipliers throughthe signing ofout-growing contracts
        with the modalitieso f financial and technical support clearly specified.
    0   The Institute o f Agriculture Development will provide the required technical advice and
        extension services.
    0   SENSE will oversee compliance with the technical guidelines byrandomly inspecting seed
        productionplots and subsequentharvests, storage, drying, shelling and processing operations.
        SENSE will also take and receive seed samples for testingand certification when so required.
    0   NGOs will purchasethe producedimproved seeds and vegetative materials, and following a
        policy and plan agreedwithInstitute o fAgriculture Development and the EstaqBode
        DesenvolvimentoAgricolas, will distributeit to smallholders andrural communities. Ingeneral, the
        recipients will be expectedto retumback aproportionof output, equal to the quantityo fseeds
        received and an agreedadditional amount.




    The donors andor NGOs and the government will agree on the terms of the partnership among themselves,
Some potentialNGOs for involvement inmultiplication include World Vision, Adra, Africare and Care, among
others. Chevron-Texaco has expressed willingness to support one or more NGOs for this work.
 InMalanje, the six selectedEstaqgodeDesenvolvimentoAgricolas are locatedinthe municipalitiesofMalanje,
Cacuso, Kakulama, Kalandula, Kzaba-Nzogi and Kalandula. Inthe case o f Bik, the Estaqlo de Desenvolvimento
Agricolas are located inKuito, Chinguar, Katabola, Kamacupa, Nharea and Andulos.
                                                      15

Figure 1:Organization of productionand multiplicationof seeds and vegetative material

                           1SENSE (to inspect fields, overseepost-harvest operations and         I
                               cerificate when requiredand supervise the quality o f seeds)
                                                                                              n
                               /n 1    U
                                                      Improved




                IAA                                      (to facilitate, and
                (to                                         finance the
                produce
                basic
                seeds)          \n I
                                     Multipliers                                              cl
                                     (farmers, farmers                                 Small farmers,
                                     associations,                                     Rural
                                     private farmers)                                  Communities
                             IDA   (to provide technical assistance for the production o f seeds)



58.      Phase 2. Duringits secondphase, activities will support the rehabilitationo f some 750
lulometers o fruralroads (375 lulometers ineach ofMalanje and Bit provinces for an estimated total base
cost ofUS$9.3 million) over a period of 24 months. The final selection o froads will depend on the
financial costs to be determined by field surveys and engineering designs. The surveys and engineering
design (estimated at some US$730,000 base cost) will be prepared inthe first phaseunder component D.
A tentative selection ofthe roads to berehabilitatedis presentedinTable 4.

59.      Costs. The five-year program i s estimated to cost about US$19 million (see Table 5). Phase 1
project i s estimated at about US$7 million, IDA will finance some US$5 million, about 75 percent of the
total. Detailed costs are presented inAppendix 2.

Table 4:          Rural development cost summary

                                                                        (US$ millions)
                                           Phase 1Project       ICost    Phase2                   Total
Production ofbasic seeds and                      1.68                      0.00                   1.68
primaryvegetative material
Multiplication of improved seeds                  2.92                      0.00                   2.92
Consultancies                                     0.43                      0.00                   0.43
Rehabilitation o f feeder roads                   0.00                      9.30                   9.30
Detailed design & Supervisiono f                  0.73                      0.48                   0.48
wnrks
Totalbase costs                                   5.76                      9.78                  15.54
Taxes (10percent)                                 0.58                      0.98                   1.56
Contingencies (10 percent)                        0.58                       1.08                  1.66
TOTAL COSTS                                       6.92                     11.83                  18.76

60.      Management arrangements. The agreedmanagement approach for the agriculture and rural
development subcomponent relies on the project management and implementation unit(PMIU) for
procurement, financial management while fully involvingthe Ministry of Agriculture inimplementation.

                                                          16

Although most o f the activities o fthe subcomponent will be implementedat the local level, the provincial
and central levels will also be involved. Therefore, management and coordination structures will be
established at all three levels.

61.       At the central level, there will be an oversight andpolicy committee, comprising the national
directors o f the five institutions (IIA, SENSE, Instituteof Agriculture Development, NationalDirectorate
of Agriculture and Forest, NationalDirectorate of RuralDevelopment), that will be chaired by the by the
vice minister o f agriculture. A coordinationunitwill be established, comprising technicians of IIA,
SENSE, Institute ofAgriculture Development, one accountant, and one monitoring and evaluationoffice.
Itwill be coordinated byan executive coordinator hiredunder Bank finance from outside the Ministryo f
Agriculture usingthe Bank-recommended procedures The vice minister's assistantwill be responsible
                                                           .
for the daily liaison between the vice minister and boththe oversight and policy committee and the PMIU.

62.       At the provincial level, an operational workinggroups will be established inMalanje and another
inBiCor Huambo) comprising the technicians ofIIA,SENSE, InstituteofAgncultureDevelopment,
participatingNGOs, a representative ofthe provincial directorate o f agriculture and rural development6
This working group will prepare the provincial work plan, ensurethe support requiredbyEstaqZiode
Desenvolvimento Agricolas and will ensurethe coordination among estaqaes andparticipatingNGOs and
other partners. At the municipal level estag6eswill beresponsible for coordinating activities through
arrangements agreedwith participatingNGOs and other partners.




    It is recommendedthat the provincial directors ofthe Institute ofAgricultureDevelopment coordinatethe
working groups.
                                                        17

     Keyperformance indicators. The key perfonnance indicators agreedat negotiations are:

     Table 5:          Ruraldevelopmentkey performanceindicators

                                          Targel `alues                            Da  Collection an1 leporting
     Outcome        Base-    YR1         YR2         yR3        YR4        Frequency       Data        Responsibility
    Indicators       line                                                  o f Reports  Collection     Data Collection
                                                                                       Instruments
Tons o fbasic                 80         140         200                   Semester      Chianga      Director, Chianga
seedo fmaize                                                                             research     yesearch station
produced by IIA                                                                           station
(Huambo).                                                                                progress
                                                                                         reports
Number of                  3,000,000  5,000,000   7,000,000                Semester      Malanje      Director, Malanje
primary cassava                                                                        experimental   researchstation
stem cuts                                                                                 center
oroduced bv IIA                                                                          progress
                                                                                         reports
Number of                 I2,200,000 I3,700,000   5,200,000                Semester      Malanje      Director, Malanje
primary sweet-                                                                         experimental   researchstation
potato produced                                                                           center
by I I A (Malanje).                                                                      progress
                                                                                          reports
Tons o f improved                        270         570         1070      Semestre    Bie province   BiCdirector
quality seed of                                                                          progress     Institute o f
maize inBie.                                                                              report      Agricultural
                                                                                                      Development
Number of                             30,000,000  50,000,000  70,000,000   Semestre      Malanje      Malanje's director
cassavastem cuts                                                                         province     Institute o f
produced in                                                                              progress     Agricultural
                                                                                          report      Development
Quantity of                          I7,500,000   12,500,000  17,400,000    Semestre     Malanje      Malanje's director
sweet potato stem                                                                        province     Instituteof
cuts producedin                                                                          progress    Agricultural
Malanje.                                                                                  report     Development
      Results
    Indicators
Number o f                                        10,000      20,000         Annual    Bie province  BIEdirector
families that                                                                            progress     Institute of
received                                                                                  report     Agricultural
improved seeds                                                                                        Development,
o f maize.                                                                                            with the support
                                                                                                      o fNGOs
Number of                                         6,000       10,000         Annual      Malanje      Malanje's director
families that                                                                            province     Instituteo f
received                                                                                 progress     Agricultural
improved                                                                                   report     Development,
vegetative                                                                                            with the support
material of                                                                                           o fNGOs
cassava.
Number of                                         600         1,000           Annual     Malanje      Malanje's director
families that                                                                            province     Institute o f
received                                                                                 progress     Agricultural
improved                                                                                   report     Development,
vegetative                                                                                            with the support
material o f sweet                                                                                    of NGOs
potato.

     Health services (US35 million, Phase 1project is US$8 million of which IDA will contribute US$6
     million under componentsA and 0)

     63.       Background. The war has left hundreds o f healthfacilities destroyed, looted or abandoned,
     mainly inthe ruralareas. The government has issueda decree: the "Regulamento Geral das Unidades
     Sanitarias do Servigo Nacional de Saiide" to guide the development ofthe network o f health
                                                         18

infrastructure. However, muchremains to be done to ensurethat the decree i s disseminated and to clarify
and standardize the needs assessment o fhealthfacilities, human resources development, and the provision
o f drugs and other essential supplies. The Ministryo fHealth i s working to improve the delivery o fhealth
services, which compares unfavorably with other countries with similar income levels.

64.      The govemment has mademany attempts to elaborate a sound policy framework, decentralize
decisionmaking, and deconcentratethe delivery o fhealthservices. Muchremains to be done to adjust
the institutional and legal framework to thenewroles andresponsibilities ofthe different administrative
levels (central, intermediary, and local); further decentralize decision makmg; and strengthen the
capabilities o f the provincialand municipal government entities to properly managehuman, financial, and
other resources. The national directorates, especially the ones linkedto diseasecontrol, are organized by
diseaselines and are supported vertically by donors and still need to elaborate sound strategies and action
plans.

65.      Objectives. The objectives of the proposed health subcomponent are to reduce the highmatemal
and child mortality, andreduce the incidence o fHIV/AIDS and o f sexually transmitted diseases in
selectedareas o f the selectedprovinces. This will be achieved by increasing the coverage and improving
the quality o f essential primary health care services to pregnant women and children, particularly those
displaced by the war, byprovidinga minimumpackage o fhealthcare services inselected areas o fthe
selectedprovinces, training of healthcare providers, providingessential medicines and supplies,
strengthening efforts to reduce the spreado fHIV/AIDS, and by strengthening the provincialand
municipal healthteams. Participatingprovinces include Malanje, Moxico, Bit and Kwanza Norte,
underserved provinces with large numbers of war-affected people. Studies, training, and provision o f
essential drugs will take place throughout the country.

66.      Phase 1project. The project will support the preparation o fthe architectural studies neededfor
repair and reconstructiono fthe health facilities to be carriedout under Phase2 (under Component D).
The project will also finance the procurement o f ambulances, motorcycles, and bicycles to ensurethat all
four provincial capitals and selectedmunicipalities have the meansto sendpatients to referral units. It
will provide training to improve the quality o f services aimedat preventing and treating common disease,
such as malaria and trypanosomiasis; andpromoting improvedmatemal and child care. The project will
inadditionprovide h t s ofessentialdrugsto healthposts, healthcenters, andmunicipal hospitals;
logistical support to the Ministryo f Healthinthe four provinces targeted for the project, refresher training
for nurses and auxiliary nurses, training of municipal healthteams, and strengtheningthe health
information system. The project will also train health care providers to counsel clients affected by
HIV/AIDSandhowto protect clientsandthemselves from infection. Itwill include limitededucation
and communication interventions aimed at stopping the spreado f HIV/AIDSand at helping those
affected.

67.      Phase 2. Duringits secondphase the health subcomponent will support a continuationo f the
activities started under Phase 1(procurement o f essential drugs; training, especially relatedto integrated
management o f childhood illnesses and essential obstetric care; and institutional strengthening). Itwill in
addition support the rehabilitation o f about 59 healthposts, 15 health centers, two municipalhospitals,
nine houses for healthpersonnel, and selected interventions to upgrade the four provincialhospitals (such
as the operating theater), the nursing school o fMalange, and two warehouses for drugs. Incoordination
with the proposedBank-supported HIVIAIDS, Malaria, Sexually Transmitted Diseases, andTuberculosis
Project, the subcomponent will also support activities aimed at reducing the spreado f HIV/AIDS.
Finally, it will support the formulation o fthe national healthpolicy and the medium-termhealth
development plan (under component C).

68.      Costs. The five-year emergency health program i s estimated to cost about US$35 million (see
Table 6). Phase 1project is estimated at about US$8 million, IDA will finance about US$6 million,
about 74 percent o f the total. The detailedcost estimates by activity are presented inAppendix 3.


                                                       19

Table 6: Health services cost summary




69.      Management arrangements. The PMIUwill be responsible for procurement and financial
management. The planningbureau o fthe Ministryo fHealth will be responsible for coordinatingproject
activities among the participating entities: the national directorates o f human resources, public health,
drugs and equipment, entities carrying out rehabilitation and health sector emergency program, and the
provincialhealth directorates.

70.      The Ministryo f Health will nominate a focal point to follow-up to the activities and to participate
inprojectmeetingsandother project coordinationactivities. Theplanningbureauwill decide whether to
appoint someone from within the ministryor to contract underproject finance an independent consultant
for this task.

71.      The technical directorates within the Ministryo f Health, will prepare the biddingdocuments and
the terms ofreferences for consultancies. The planningbureau will review andcomment onthe
documents and provide themto the PMIU for inclusion inthe tender documents. The ministrywill
receive support andtechnical assistancefrom WHO, UNICEFandUNFPA for training and procurement
o f drugs, organizations with which it has several ongoing projects. Duringthe next 3-6 months the
planning bureau will draw on the expertise o fthe project implementation unit ofthe Bank-supported
HIV/AIDS,Malaria, Sexually TransmittedInfections, andTuberculosis Project to assistwith
procurement documents.

72.      Giventhe limited capacity o f the Ministryo f Healthat the provincial level, the government i s
consideringpartnering with NGOsto execute some project activities. The participationo f NGOs or other
partners will be regulated by appropriate norms laidout inoperating manuals and standard contracts to be
developed underthe Project Preparation Facilityby the PMIU.




                                                      20

   The key performance indicators agreedat negotiations are as follow:

Table 7:           Healthkey performanceindicators

       ~~    ~                      TargetValue    I              DataC  ectionandReport    L
              OutputIndicators        PHASE1        FrequencyofReports    DataCollection     Responsibility
                                       project                             Instruments      DataCollection
       Number of healthfacilities                          Yearly        Monitoringvisits   Supervisionfirm
        rehabilitatedandequipped.                                         and supervision   and
                                                                              reports       DNME

       Number of essentialkits                             Yearly            Reportsof      Directorateso f
        distributed.                                                      Directoratesof    PublicHealthand
                                                                         Public Healthand   ofDrugs and
                                                                           of Drugs and     Equipment.
                                                                            Equipment.
       Number ofpromoters from                             Yearly         Course reports.
       demobilizedarmies trained
       andpromotedto auxiliary
       nurses.
       Number ofhealth                                     Yearly         Course reports    Directorateof
       professionalsreceiving                                                andproject     Public Health,
       refresher training.                                                    reports.      Directorateof
                                                                                            Human
                                                                                            Resources.
       Numberradio spots                                   Yearly          Reportsof the    Directorate of
        produceby the project.                                             directorate of   Public Health.
                                                                         Public Healthand
                                                                           of the project.

        Policydocument for the                        Endof the project  Projectreportand   Planningbureau.
                                                                         policydocument.



Education (US$42 million, Phase 1project is US$7 million of whichIDA will contribute US$5 million
under components A and D)

73.           Objectives. The objectives o f the education subcomponent are to: (a) increase access to and
completionrates o f grades 1-6, (b) improve the quality o f education, and (c) strengthen institutional
capacity for data collection, analysis and planning, and school levelmanagement. Participating provinces
include Malanje, Moxico, Uige, BiC, and Kwanza Norte.

74.           Phase 1. The project will provide textbooks and other school supplies and equipment and
training and retrainingcourses for new and experienced teachers. Specifically, it will distributeteacher
and student guides and pedagogical materials focusing on core subjects (including mathematics,
Portuguese, and social sciences) to all primary school students and teachers inthe five provinces. These
materials are expected to last three years. HIVIAIDSprevention information materials would also be
distributed. The project will also initiate training for about 1,379 new teachers who will be posted inthe
new schools, usingmodules and materials developed and testedwith the support from UNICEFand other
agencies.

75.           Phase 2, Duringthis phase, inaddition to teacher training, activities will support the construction
and furnishingo f about 690 new classrooms (accommodating 55,000 students). Many o f the schools will
be built where no functioning school currently exists, financing related infrastructure, such as teachers'
houses, latrines, water and sanitation facilities, and an administrative office. The new schools are
expected to operateintwo shifts with a capacity o f 40 students per classroom, per shift. Finally, Phase 2
activities will help to (a) provide training intendedto strengthen school administration, management and
leadership o f school directors; (b) improve data collection, analysis and planning payingparticular
attentionto enhancing the management information system used to track teachers, student flows, and

                                                         21

resources; (c) support selectedstudiesto assess the quality and usefulness o fproposed financed
interventions, and (d) support central and provincial directorates for implementation o f activities.

76.     Costs summaiy. The five-year emergency education program i s estimated to cost about US$42
million, equivalent to equivalent to about 21percent o fthe overall cost o fthe education interventions
specifiedinthe PPMRRP. IDA will finance about US$30 million, nearly 75 percent o fthe total. A
summary of costs i s presented inTable 6. Details are presentedinappendix 4.

Table 8:          Educationcost summary




77.     Monitoring and evaluation. Monitoring o fprogram activities would be carried out at all levels.
The Ministryo f Education at the central level, with provincial and municipalauthorities would develop a
simple form to collect datato monitorthe program. Municipaleducation staff will visit schools
periodically (at least once per quarter) to monitor the status o f construction, presence o fteachers and
availability o fteaching and leamingmaterials. Provincial staff will visit schools on a randombasis for
the same purpose andresolve issues that arise. Centrallevel staff would visit eachprovince twice a year
to monitor the status of the program and recommend improvements inprocessesandprocedures.

78.     The ministrywill carry out a limitednumber o f studies to ensure that quantitative and qualitative
targets are being met. Ideas being considered include a study on use o f didactic materials inthe
classroom, and a study assessinghow the knowledge and methodologies leamed during training are being
used. Studies would be carriedout not earlier than the secondyear ofproject implementation.

79.     The key performance indicators for the education subcomponent are:

        0    Increase o f at least 25 percent inenrollment o f childrenbetween 6-12 years old inthe
             provinces covered under the project.
        0    25,000 student guides distributedto schools andbeingused, accordingto randomchecks.
        0    1,250trainedteachers innewlycreated classrooms or schools.

 ComponentB: Rehabilitation and reconstructionof critical infrastructure

80.     Rehabilitation and reconstruction of critical infiastructure (US$171million, Phase 1project is
US$50.7million of which the IDA grant will contribute US$25.8 million under componentB). This
component comprises four subcomponents: roads, electricity, water supply, and urban services and
infrastructure. Phase 1project includes only the most urgent investments needs inthe water supply
sector. The other infrastructure reconstructionneeds are plannedto be addressedduringPhase2 o f the
EMRP.


                                                      22

Water supply subcomponent (US$66million, Phase 1project is US$50.7million of which IDA will
contribute US$25.8 million under component B)

81.      Government strategy. The government i s determinedto increase the supply o f safe water to
urbanresidents from the current three liters per day to least 15 liters per day by 2007. To achieve this
objective, the government intendsto improve the quality of water and the efficiency o f existing
infrastructure o f the EPAL. Inthe provinces, the government plans to rehabilitate and expandproduction
and distribution networks.

82.      Objectives. The objectives of the water supply subcomponent are to increase the supply o f safe
drinkingwater to a minimumof 10-12 litersperday per capita inthe periurbanareas ofLuanda andto 15
liters per day per capita inthe three provincial capitals of Malanje, Kuito, and N'Dalatando by 2008, and
to increase the supplyo f safe drinkingwater inrural areas o f Moxico.

83.      Phase 1project. The project will support restoration andexpansion o fwater services inLuanda
and inthe three provincialcapitals o f Malanje (Malanje), Kuito (Bit), andN'Dalatando (Kwanza Norte).
InLuanda(financedbyGOA), itwillsupport(a) rehabilitationofwater works, includingtheMulemba
distribution center, (b) construction o f 8-10 strategically located pressurized bulkwater distribution
centers, allowing trucks to circulatebetween four and five times more often thancurrent practice (water i s
now brought from Bengo, 50 kilometers away from Luanda), loweringtheir unitcosts, (c) constructing
205 standpipes inmarginal areas on the periphery of EPAL's network. Inthe provincialcapital o f
Malange it will support replacement o fnetworks (50 kilometers), 5,0000 house connections and 50
community standpipes. InKuito it will support replacement or rehabilitation o f water pumps, intake
stations, and electrical equipment; replacement o f40 kilometers o fnetworks; 4,000 house connections;
and 40 community standpipes. InN'Dalatando, it will support rehabilitation o fthe treatment plant at
Mucaririver, rehabilitationo fthe reservoir, and construction o f a 16-kilometer water mainto transport
treated water from the plant on Mucaririver.

84.      Phase 2. Duringthe secondphase, activities will support additional investments inN'Dalatando
and inrural areas o fMoxico. Itwill also provide technical assistanceto strengthen the water utility.
Specifically, activities will includerehabilitationo f 35 kilometers o f the water network, providing 3,500
house connections, and constructing 50 community standpipes. Inrural areas inthe province o f Moxico,
activities will include the constructiono f 70 boreholes with handpumps,andrehabilitation o f five small
systems and 50 water points. The new water points and small water systems will be managed by
community organizations, which are expected to collect adequaterevenuesthrough water charges to
cover costs o f operations andmaintenance. UNICEFwill implement the activities inrural areas. Phase 2
activities cover also technical assistanceto the National Directorate of Water (DNA) and the Ministryo f
Energy and Water to reformpolicy and regulations for water services. Inthe three provincialcapitals, it
will include technical assistanceto help the water utilities provide water services on a commercial basis,
fully covering costsfor operations andmaintenance. To ensure sustainability ofthe investments prior to
completingthe sector reforms the contracts will include provisions for one-year o f operations and
maintenance following completion o fthe works.

85.      Costs. The estimated costs are about U S 6 6 million (see Table 10). Phase 1project i s estimated
to be about US 52 million, $IDA will finance about US$25.8 million, about 50 percent o f the total.
Detailed costs are given inappendix 6.




                                                       23

   Table 9:       Water supply cost summary


                                              IPhase 1Proiect I        Phase 2                Total




   86.       Key performance indicators. The following table lists the key outcome and intermediate
   performance indicators, annual target values, methods o f data collection and reporting, and entities
   responsible for collecting andreporting data all o fwhich were agreedat negotiations:

   Table 10:          Water supplykeyperformanceindicators

                                    I                                             Data ollectionand eporting
 OutcomeIndicators                                                YR4    1  Frequency       Data       Responsibility
                                           I                                of Reports    Collection   DataCollection
                                                                                         Instruments
Litersper day per                                                                          Survey     Directorateof
                                           Tz
capita                                                                                                Water to
                                                                                                      outsourceto
                                                                                                      NGO.
Costper cubic meter of                                                       Yearly        Survey     Directorateof
water                      per cubic                                                                  Water to
                            meter                                                                     outsourceto
                                           I                                                          NGO.
  ResultsIndicators                                                      I
Numberpoorpeoplein                   20,000                                                Survey     Directorate o f
periurbanwith access                                                                                   Water
to improvedwater          ~



servicesdeliveredby                                             t
new or rehabilitated
standpipes andwater
trucks.
Numberpeople inthree                                                         Monthly     EPAL          Directorateof
provincialcapitalsthat                                                                   dispatch      Water, EPAL
haveaccessto water                                                                       report
utility network
distribution;

    Component C: Sector developmentstrategies and strengthening of human and institutional capacities

    87.      Sector development strategies and strengthening of human and institutional capacities (US19
   million, Phase 1project is US$8million of which the IDA credit will contribute US4.9million).

    88.      Phase 1. The project will support (a) technical assistance for sector ministries and agencies
   involvedinimplementingthe project, (b) initial training programs, and (c) technical assistance to build
   local capacity to prepare for decentralization, as well as pilot funds transfers to identified local
                                                        24

communities. Finally this component will finance the environmental and social impact assessment for the
overall project and the social and environmental managementplanfor Phase 1activities, it will also
finance the management o f environmental aspects o fthe investments inwater supply to be implemented
duringthe project.

89.      Phase 2. Duringits secondphase, inadditionto technical assistancefor sector ministries and
agencies and training programs, activities will support preparation o fthe strategies for the key sectors:
agriculture, education, electricity, health, all modes of transportation, electricity and water and sanitation
(both urban and rural). This subcomponent will also finance measuresto strengthen local capacity in
preparationfor decentralization (more pilot trials are proposedto be financed to test policies on
decentralization and improvement o f local institutions). Itwill also finance the management o f
environmental aspects o f the investments inrehabilitation o froads and bridges, water supply, electricity
and urban infrastructure, and other Phase2 investments.

90.     Decentralization and supportfor local development. Decentralizationhasbeenandremains at
the central focus for the government o fAngola. The Council adopted a strategic plan for decentralization.
This was followedbya study on decentralization anddeconcentration supported byUNDPthat developed
a local governance approach witha clearly sequencedset o f activities to implement the strategic plan.

91.      Objectives. The main objective of the activity is to help buildcapacity o fthe municipal
administration to plan and manage the delivery o f sustainablepublic services inthe longer term.
Specifically the activity aims to (a) establisha model for financing the subnational administrations'
development budget; (b) create a mechanism andpractical tools for regular auditing, monitoring and
financial reporting requirements; (c) buildcapacity at local level to plan, budget, implement,and monitor
small-scale rural infrastructure, (d) pilot mechanisms for investment programming, budgeting,
implementation, assets' management, and accounting. Activities will be focused on four municipalities,
Kilamba Kiaxi (Luanda province), Kamacupa pic), Calandula (Malange), and SanzaPombo (Uige).

92.     Phase 1. The project will support preparation o f a feasibility study that will diagnose the needs,
constraints and risks; define the nature, mechanism and modality o f fiscal transfer from the central budget
to the targeted municipalities; and define the strategy, management, disbursement and reporting
arrangements, policy objectives, possible impact, and potential for replication, and needs for equipment.
Itwill also support the implementation ofthe studyby (a) defining and approving the institutionaland
legal framework and implementation arrangements; (b) providingtechnical assistance,(c) building
capacity o fprovincialand municipalofficials, communities, and local contractors to plan, budget,
implement and monitor small-scale rural infrastructure; (d) identifyingthe mechanisms for investment
programming, budgeting, implementation, assets management, accounting; and (e) defining the
mechanism for monitoring and evaluation. Duringthis first phase, it will also pilot the fiscal transfer
mechanism

93,     Phase 2. Duringthe secondphase, the activity will pilot, on a broader basis, the fiscal transfer
mechanisms. It will assistboth central and local govemment to (a) create the transfer mechanisms such
as the municipal development fund; (b) provide initial capital to the fund; (c) draft the management and
operational procedures for disbursement; (d) develop improved procedures for municipal-level strategic
planning, programming, budgeting, implementation, auditing, monitoringand evaluation; (e) design a
framework for monitoring local government revenue; (f) conduct a revenue generation feasibility study to
investigate opportunities for municipalities to generate as well as mobilizeincome; and (g) assist
municipalities inthe implementation o f selectedactions.

94.      Costs:The decentralization and support to local governance sub-component is estimated to cost
about US$4.4 million. The Phase 1project is estimated at US$2 million o fwhich IDA will finance US$
1million. Details ofthe costs andmonitoringindicators are provided inAppendix 5.




                                                      25

 Component D:Management, monitoring and evaluation of project implementation

Management, monitoring and evaluation of project implementation (US$22million, Phase I project is
US$13 million of which theIDA credit will contribute US$4.9million). DuringPhase 1project, this
component will finance program management and monitoring and evaluation for Phase 1project
implementation. It will also finance preparation o f detailed design and tender documents for investment
activities that will be executed under Phase 2. DuringPhase 2, this component will finance technical
assistance, expertise, consultant services, operating costs, logistical support, and equipment for Phase 2
management and monitoring. The component will also finance the expertise and support neededto
update the national demining strategy and actionplan. It will also finance specific demining actions that
will allow the supported rural development and infrastructure investments to move forward. These
actions are particularly tailored to the rural development and infrastructure rehabilitationactivities and are
expected to be monitored through the social and environmental managementplan, which i s financed
under Phase2 o f component C. Appendix 9 provides details o fthe environmental and social
management plan. Appendix 12provides details o f the demining activities.

PART 4 -IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS

A.       Implementationperiod

95.      Project implementation period. The Phase 1project will be implementedfrom April 1,2005 to
December 31,2007.

 B.      Capacityofthe governmentto executethe project

96.      Capacity o f the government inAngola to execute the program and the project o f such scopeand
magnitudeinaccordancewithBankprocedures is weak. Nationalregulations cannot be usedfor the
project accordingto the Country Procurement Assessment Review carried out in2002 becauseo fmajor
problems with transparency, enforcement, and capacity that make them unacceptable for use underIDA-
financed projects. An action plan addressing the acceptedrecommendations o fthe Country Procurement
Assessment Review is beingimplementedthrough the ongoing Economic Management Technical
Assistance Project. Agreement has beenreached withthe government on the implementation
arrangements for the project to compensatefor government's weaknesses and to strengthen its capacity to
implement future development projects. These are described below.

 C.      Projectimplementationandmanagementstructure

97.      Project oversight. An inter-ministerial steering committee, chaired by the Ministryo f Planning
and comprising vice ministers (or their delegates) o f finance and sectoral ministries involvedinthe
project, will be responsible for overall project oversight.

98.      Project management. Giventhe urgent nature of the project, the large number o f activities to be
completed within a short time frame, and the limited capacity o f the government, the following
institutional arrangementshave been agreedto ensure that funds disburse quickly, multisectoral
objectives are reached, and absolute transparency is maintained.

99.      A project managementand implementation unit(PMIU) hasbeenset upby ministerial decree
(Despacho 0067/GMP/2004) within the Ministryof Planning and will be responsible for overall
management o f the entire multisectoral program. It will be headedby the Vice-Minister o f Planning (who
will also be the secretaryof the steering committee) as the project coordinator. A full-time project
administrator (a highlevel senior officer to be appointed or a project management specialist to be
recruited) will be responsible for day-to-day management o fthe project. The PMIUwill work in
coordination with the concerned departments inthe relevant ministries and agencies. Itwill have three
main functions: (a) procurement; (b) financial management; and (c) monitoringand evaluation o fproject
implementation. Itwill also be responsible for (a) assuring steady progress o f the procurement in
                                                      26

accordanceto an implementation schedulereviewed andapprovedby the World Bank, (b) implementing
activities included inthe contracts o f the internationalprocurement experts to transfer skills to the local
staff, and (c) ensuring that a highethical standardand transparency i s maintainedthroughout the process.
Finally, the PMIUwill be responsible for ensuring that project implementationcomplies with World
Bank procurement, financial management, and disbursementrules.

Interimimplementation arrangementswill apply prior to staffing and adoption o f acceptable financial
management system and manualprocedures by PMIU(see paras. 102and 129) beingput inplace. The
project unito f Fundo de Apoio Social (FAS 111)will provide temporary financial management and
procurement support for EMRP.

100.     The line ministries and participating entities are expected to sign the contracts, provide technical
support to the PMIU(providing terms ofreference, participating indefining the short lists and in
evaluatingbids), monitor implementation and provide to the PMIUperiodic monitoring reports o f
implementation progress. The precise roles and responsibilities ofthe PMIUinrelation to the line
ministries and other entities participatinginthe project will be specified inmemorandums o f
understanding to be signed between the parties.

D.       Procurementanddisbursementarrangements

101.     Procurement, Procurement o f works, goods and services under the EMRPwill follow the World
Bank Guidelines o f May 2004. The thresholds for the use o f different procurement methods are presented
inthe TechnicalAnnex andwill be specifiedineachoftheDevelopmentCredit Agreements. The
thresholds for prior review by the Bank o f the Borrower's procurement decisions will be specified inthe
procurement plan and agreedonbefore negotiations. The two kinds o f thresholds have been set relatively
low to reduce the procurement risk, which i s considered high. About 95 percent o f the total value o f
contracts would be subject to prior review.

102.     For phase 1, the PMIUwill contain a procurement section, headedby an internationally recruited
chiefprocurement officer and staffedwith at least two procurement officers, recruitednationally. Ithas
beenagreedthat untilthe procurement group o fPMIUhasbeenadequately staffed, the project
implementationunito f FAS 111,which is also located inthe Ministryo fPlanning, will performthe
essentialprocurement functions. The project implementationplanwill contain a section onprocurement,
which will incorporate the procurement manuals that have already been prepared for two other World
Bank assistedprojects inAngola.

103.     The participating ministries and agencies will be responsible for preparing the initial requirements
for procurement, including the terms o freference, bills o f quantities, specifications, and the like and
providingthem to PMIU. The PMIUwill conduct the procurement process upto the award of contract.
The ministries and agencieswill participate inthe preparation o f short lists andthe evaluationo fbids and
proposals under the direction of PMIU. The contracts will be signed by the ministers or heads o f agencies
concerned, who will thenbe responsible for the management ofthe contracts. The PMIUwill monitor
contract managementand assist the ministries and agencies inthis task as needed. Payments for contracts
will be made by the PMIU against certification received from the ministry or agency responsible for the
particular contract.

104.     Procurement for the project would be carried out inaccordancewiththe World Bank's
Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits dated May 2004; and Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by WorldBank Borrowers dated May 2004; and the provisions
stipulated inthe Development Credit Agreement for the project. The items inthe different procurement
categories are briefly described below. The Bank`s standardbiddingdocuments, includingthose for
evaluation reports, will be usedfor all procurementunder ICB and NCB procedures.

105.     Procurement plan. A procurementplan for project implementation was prepared during
appraisal, which will govern the choice of the procurement methods usedfor all the contracts. For every
                                                      27

contract that would be financed out o f the credit, the plan specifies the procurement methodor consultant
selection method to be used, whether there is aneed for prequalification, the estimated cost, prior review
requirements, and a time frame. The plan was agreedon between the Borrower and the project team at
negotiations. The plan is given inAppendix 13. The procurement planwill be updated annually, or
sooner as required, to reflect the project implementationneeds and improvements inthe institutional
capacity. Any proposed revisions to the agreedprocurement planwill be submitted to the Bank for its
prior approval.

106.     Procurement of goods. Goods procuredunder the project would include drugs, medical kits and
equipment, school furniture and equipment, books, vehicles, trucks, motorbikes, computer hardware and
software, office equipment, pumps and other water relatedequipment, agricultural equipment, etc. Each
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more would beprocuredunder
International Competitive Bidding(ICB) procedures. Goods with a total estimated value per contract o f
less than US$200,000 may beprocuredon the basis o fNationalCompetitive Bidding. Goods estimated
to cost less than US$30,000 per contract may beprocuredon the basis o f Shopping.

107.     Procurement of works. Works procuredunder this project would include the rehabilitation,
reconstruction, or expansion o froads, electric power supply, schools, health facilities, water and
sanitation, and urbanworks. Works witha total estimated total value per contract o fUS$500,000 or more
will beprocured on the basis of ICB. Prequalificationwill be done for works contracts of US$10 million
or more. Works with an estimated value per contract o f less than US$500,000 may be procuredon the
basis o f NCB. Works estimated to cost less than US$30,000 per contract may beprocured on the basis o f
Shopping. Shopping procedures involve at least 3 quotations from suppliers or contractors inresponseto
a written invitation. For electricity supply, the standardbiddingdocuments for Supply and Installationof
Plant and Equipment will be used. Where appropriate, LimitedInternational Bidding(LIB) for works
may be used, as agreed inthe procurement plans.

108.     Selection of consultants. Consultant services will be required for the designs of most of the civil
works included inthe project, construction supervision, studies, and technical assistancefor project
implementation. Consultant services will be procuredthrough a Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS) or other appropriate methods as specified     inthe procurement plans. Consultant assignments
estimated to cost US$200,000 or more would be advertised to invite expressions o f interest. Small
consulting assignmentsmay be procuredthrough Consultant Qualification Selection (CQS) or Least Cost
Selection (LCS). Technical assistanceto Municipal HealthTeams would be provided in4 provinces
through a QCBS procedure with a short list consisting only o f qualified NGOs.

109.     Single-Source Selection (SSS) may be used inexceptional cases, where the provisions o f
paragraphs 3.9 to 3.13 o f the Consultants Guidelines are met. For Phase 1these items would include
construction supervision for water supplyinone of the 3 target towns to allow the constructionto start
without delay, and a rapidhealthneeds assessment and a healthneedsresources assessment to be done by
WHO. InPhase2, constructionsupervision assignmentsmaybe procuredthrough SSS, provided that the
original selection of consultants to prepare the design or studies was carried out through competition and
for the entire assignment covering bothPhases 1and 2.

110.     Specialized advisory services would be procuredthrough Individual Consultants Selection (ICs),
basedon the qualifications of individualconsultants for the assignment inaccordance with the provisions
o fparagraphs 5.1 through 5.3 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.

111.     Procurement of Non-Consulting Services, Procurement from UnitedNations agencies for
supplies and works carried out under their ownprocedures may include UNICEF, WHO, UNDP, UNCDF
and/or the InternationalAgency Procurement Services Organization (IAPSO). The standard form o f
contract withUNagencieswill be used for such procurement. The items to beprocured from UN
agencieswould be agreedon inthe procurement plan and would originally include (a) three contracts for
the stagedsupplyofstudent kits, teacher kits, and classroom materials withanestimated value ofUS$l.O

                                                      28

millionfor the largest o f the three contracts ;and (b) implementationo f the studies and capacity building
for the pilot decentralization activity through UNDP and UNCDF.

112.     Training. Workshops and study tours will be conducted according to annual training programs
that will be submittedto IDA for review prior to initiating the training. The program will specify the type
of training (courses, study tours, workshops, on thejob, etc.), subjects, number of trainees, duration o f
training, staffmonths, timing, estimated cost, and the like. The procurement o f any training activities that
involve the hiringo f consultants will follow the Consultants Guidelinesby usingthe QCBS, CQS or LCS
for firms and ICs for individuals. The appropriate methods will be specified inthe procurement plans.

113.     Operating costs. Operating costs financed through the project wouldbe procuredusingthe
implementing agency's administrative procedures, which were reviewed and found acceptable to the
Bank.

114.     Direct Contracting. Direct contractingfor works and goods maybe usedinexceptional cases,
such as for the extension o f an existing contract, standardization, proprietary items, spareparts for
existing equipment, and urgentrepairs and emergency situations, according to paragraphs 3.6 and 3.7 o f
the Guidelines. The items to be procuredthrough Direct Contractingwould be agreedon inthe
procurement plans.

115.     Prior review ofprocurement by the WorldBank. The thresholds for prior reviewbythe Bank are
specifiedinthe procurement plan. Table 8 shows (a) the thresholds for the differentprocurement
methods, and (b) the initially-agreed thresholds for prior reviewby the Bank. The Bank will preview
procurement arrangementsproposed by the Borrower for the items specified inthe procurement plans for
their conformity withthe DevelopmentCredit Agreement andthe applicable Guidelines. Any
procurement itemnot specified for prior review may be subjected to a post-review ofthe procurement
process.

Table 11:        Thresholds for procurement methods and prior review


      Expenditure               Contract Value              Procurement              Contracts Subject to
        Category               Threshold (US$)                 Method                Prior Review (US$)
Works                     500,000 or more                ICB                       All
                          30,000 or more and less NCB                              First3 contracts
                          than 500,000
                          Less than 30,000               Shopping                  First3 contracts
Goods                     200,000 or more                ICB                       All
                          30,000 or more and less NCB                              First3 contracts
                          than 500,000
                          Less than 30,000               Shopping                  First3 contracts
Consultant Services -                                    QCBS/CQS/LCS              100,000 or more: all
Firms                                                                              Less than 100,000: first 3
                                                                                   contracts
Zonsultant Services  -                                   ICs                       50,000 or more: all
Individuals                                                                        Less than 50,000:   first 3




                                                       29

Table 12:           Phase 1project costs by procurementarrangements
                                       ProposedPhase 1 Emergency Mukisector Recovery Project
                                                         -
                                             ProjectCosts by ProcurementArrangements




1. Works                                                 35          0                            16            51
                                                        (24)        (0)                                        (25)
2. Goods & Equipments                                    9           1             3                            12
                                                        (6)         (1)           (2)                          (9)
3. Consultant & EngineeringServices                                               20              3             23
                                                                                 (14)                          (14)
4. Training                                                                        3                            3
                                                                                  (2)                          (2)
5. Service Contracts

6. Operating costs                                                                 1              2             3



  * Other  methods ofprocurement mcludeIncludescivilworks and goods to be procured
   through nationalshopping, consuiting services, services of contractedstaffof the project management office,
  training, technical assistance services, andincrementaloperating costs relatedto
  (i) managingthe project, and (ii)passingproject funds to localgovemment units.

116.      Procurement risk assessment. The CountryProcurement Assessment Review o f 2002 covered a
wide range o fprocurement aspects, including(a) the degree to which the government promotes a culture
o f accountability; (b) the status o fprocurement staff, including salary structure and capabilities; (c) the
degree to which procurement is free from political interference; (d) the existence o f clearly written
standards and procedures; and (e) the degree o f efficiency, transparency and value-for-money. Ineach o f
these areas, the CPAR found that the Angolan procurement systemneeds major improvements, and,
consequently, i s considered a highrisk. The briefassessments carried out duringpre-appraisal and
appraisal found that very little hadchanged since the publication of the report inthis regard.

117.      Three major probl,ems were identified:transparency, enforcement, and lack o f capacity. The
report found the following specific deficiencies relatedto procurement: (a) weaknessesinthe legal
framework and lack o f enforcement o f the existing provisions, (b)inefficientand costly procedures and
practices, (c) weak procurement organization and capacity, (d) weak auditing and anti-comption
mechanisms, and (e) payment delays that result inhigher contract prices.

118.      Inconsideration of the presentprocurement situationandtheneedfor arapidimplementationof
the emergencyproject, itwas agreedthat all the procurement for the project will be carried out centrally
inthe MinistryofPlanning. Othermeasuresthat will be taken to minimizethe risks ofprocurement
problems to occur are (a) provisiono f training inprocurement to all local staff involvedinthe project, (b)
preparation o f a procurement plan with the participation of all the relevant ministries and agencies; (c)
creation o f a monitoring and filing system for procurement actions by the PMIU; (d) setting up o f a
procurement section inthe PMIU, staffed with international and national procurement experts, (e) the
large majority o f contracts to be subject to prior reviewby Bank, particularly inthe first year, (0
preparation and use o f appropriate procurement and other manuals, and (g) carrying out o fregular
procurement audits. The overall project risk for procurement i s high.




                                                               30

119.     Frequency ofprocurement supemision. The frequency o fprocurement supervision i s proposedto
be once every 4 months inthe first year andonce every 6 months insubsequentyears. Every supervision
mission should include a post-review o fprocurement decisions.

120.     Audits ofprocurement anddisbursement ofIDAand government funds will be undertakenat
regular intervals by internal and external auditors. Appendix 7 presentsthe details o f the procurement
arrangements basedon the assessment carried out by the World Bank.

121.     Disbursement. All costs are inclusive o f taxes and duties. The government will finance 100
percent o f (a) taxes and duties (estimated at a rate o f 10percent), (b)expenditures for maintenance
services, (c) operating costs, and (d) recurrent costs. Inaddition, the government will finance (a) 15
percent o f counterpart funding for works and goods under component A, and (b)20 percent o f counterpart
funding for works and goods undercomponent B, and (c) 20 percent o fcounterpart fundingfor technical
assistance and engineering and consultant services. The disbursement schedule is expected to be as
follows: US$2 million (5 percent) is expected to be disbursed during IDA fiscal 2005, US$21million (42
percent) during fiscal 2006, U S 1 9 million (37 percent) during fiscal 2007, and US$8 million (16
percent) duringfiscal 2008.

122.     Special Account. The project will have two Special Accounts that will be opened ina
commercial bank acceptable to IDA and will be operated inaccordance withthe Bank's operational
guidelines. Special Account A will be for the credit, Special Account B will be for the grant.

123.     Disbursements from IDA would be initially made on the basis o f incurred eligible expenditures
(transaction based disbursements). IDA would thenmake advance disbursement from the proceeds o f the
Credit and Grant by depositing into the Borrower-operated Special Accounts to expedite project
implementation. The advance to the Special Account would be usedby the Borrower to finance IDA'S
share o fproject expenditures. Another acceptablemethod o f withdrawing funds from the Credit and
Grant is the direct payment method, involvingdirect payments from the Credit and Grant to a thirdparty
for works, goods and services uponthe Borrower's request. Payments may also be made to a commercial
bank for expenditures against IDA special commitments covering a commercial bank's Letter o f Credit.
IDA'SDisbursementLetter stipulates aminimumapplication value for direct payment and special
commitment procedures.

124.     To facilitate disbursementsfor eligible expenditures for goods, work and services, uponproject
effectiveness, the PMlUwould be requiredto submit a withdrawal application for an initial deposit to
each Special Account, drawn from the IDA Credit and Grant. The authorized allocations are US$2.5
million for each o f the Special Accounts. Uponcredit effectiveness andunder the interimimplementation
arrangements not more than US$2.5 millionintotal i s to be disbursed. IDA would deposit the amount o f
US$0.5millioninto the Special Account A. There will be no payments from Special Account B inthis
period. Direct payments up to a ceilingamount o f US$2 million may be made inthis period. The
remaining balance would be made available whenthe aggregateamount o fwithdrawals from the credit
account plusthe total amount o f all outstanding special commitments entered into by IDA shall be equal
to or exceed the equivalent o fUS$20 million. Replenishment o f funds from IDA to the Special Accounts
will be made uponevidence o f satisfactory utilizationo fthe advance, reflectedinstatementsof
expenditure andor on full documentation for payments above thresholds for statements o f expenditure.
The Special Accounts would be used for all payments inferior to 20 percent o fthe authorized allocation
and replenishment applications would be required to be submittedregularly on a monthlybasis. If
ineligible expenditures are found to have beenmade from the Special Account, the Borrower will be
obligated to refundthe same. Ifa Special Account remains inactive for more than six months, the
Borrower mayberequested to refund to IDA amounts advanced to that Special Account. IDA will have
the right, as reflectedinthe Development FinancingAgreement, to suspenddisbursement o fthe funds, if
reportingrequirements are not complied with.

125.     Use of statements of expenditure. All application for the withdrawal o fproceeds from the credit
will be fully documented, except for (a) contracts with an estimated value of less than US$500,000 for
                                                        31

works packages; (b) contracts with an estimated value o f less than US$200,000 for equipment and goods;
(c) contracts with an estimated value o f less than US$lOO,OOO for consultingfirms and less than
US$50,000 for individualconsultants; and (d) training and incremental operating expenseswhich may be
claimed on the basis o f statements o f expenditure. Documentation supporting all expenditures claimed
against statements o fexpenditure will be retained by PMIU, and will be available for review when
requested by IDA supervision missions and auditors. All disbursementsare subject to the condition o fthe
Development Credit Agreement and the procedures defined inthe Disbursement Letter.

126.     When project implementationbegins, the quarterly financial monitoring reports (FMRs) produced
bythe projectwill bereviewed. Strengthening its accounting and financial management capacity will
enable PMIUto establish effective financial management and accounting systems, which should allow it
to produce the FMRs. Where the reports are adequateand produced on a timelybasis, and the Borrower
requests conversion to report-based disbursements, a review will be undertakenby the task team leader to
determine ifthe project i s eligible. The adoption o freport-based disbursementsby the project will enable
it to move away from time-consuming voucher byvoucher.

127.     Governmentproject account. This account will be openedina commercial bank acceptableto
IDA. Counterpart funds will be deposited regularly inthis account inaccordancewithproject needs. To
facilitate disbursements for eligible expenditures for goods, works and services, uponproject
effectiveness, the government would be requiredto make an initial deposit to the project account o f
US$0.5 million equivalent for Phase 1covering an estimated four months o f eligible expenditures
cofinanced by the govemment.

E.       Financialmanagement arrangements and audits

128.     The public expenditure management and financial accountabilityreview carried out by IDA in
collaboration withthe government m March 2004 revealed that the measurestaken so far are not yet
adequate to ensurethat Bank-financed projects are managed transparently and inaccordance withthe
Bank fiduciary safeguards. The many existing off-budget accounts, a not-yet fully implemented financial
management information system, inadequate systems o f internal control and financial reporting ,and
inadequate extemal auditing, raise concerns. Under these circumstances, a "ring fenced" financial
management strategy, with dedicated bank accounts, and a project financial management manual will be
established.

129.     To establish an acceptable controlenvironment and to mitigate risks, the measures specified in
the Financial Management Action Planmustbe implementedsatisfactorily. Three main actions are
necessary: (a) appointment o f an international financial management advisor, an intemal auditor, and a
project accountant for the PMIU(three months following effectiveness o f the project); (b) adoption o f a
fully documented Financial Management Manual which covers financial policiesandprocedures,
accounting and intemal control system, financial reporting, flow o f funds and auditing arrangements
(three months following effectiveness o f the project); and (c) installation o f an integratedaccounting
software, including data testing (four months following effectiveness o fthe project). Inaddition, the
appointment o f an extemal auditor under terms of reference and experience satisfactory to the Bank (four
months following project effectiveness) i s also important. A Bank financial management specialist will
undertake, duringthe first year o f Phase 1implementation, areview o f PMIUcapacity to ensure that it
has adequate financial staff capable o f establishing the necessaryprocedures and internal controls over the
use o f project funds. The financial management specialist will also familiarize the PMIUwith IDA'S
procurement and disbursements procedures, requirements o f adequateaccounting and submission o f
quarterly FMRs. Disbursements from the IDA credit and grant would not exceedUS$2.5 millionprior to
thisreviewbeingcarried out. The government mayretain for a short periodthe services ofaspecialized
firmto install, withinthe PMIU, the financial management system, prepare the manualofprocedures and
provide initial training to the staff o f the financial section o fthe PMTU.

130.     A recent missionby a Bankfinancial management specialist hasreviewedwiththe PMIUthe
requirements o f submission of quarterly FMRsinaccordance with the Bank Guidelines. The PMIU is
                                                         32

expected to submit the first FMRs for EMRP operations six months after project effectiveness. The
FMRswill include (a) a statementof sources and uses offunds, (b) describe upto datephysicalprogress
for project implementation and (c) indicate status on mainprocurement actions.

131.     Internal controls andflnancial managementmanual. The project's internal controls are
documented ina financial managementmanual. The procedures usedby the project to maintain its
records are also laidout inthe financial managementmanual. The latter include the requirement for cross
references to supporting documentation inthe statements of expenditure inorder to facilitate the audit o f
these expenditures and improve the maintenance o f the project's records. The PMIUwill update the
manualregularly to take into account any changesinprocedures.

132.     The financial managementmanual will describe for the accounting system: the major transaction
cycles of the project; funds flow processes; the accounting records, supporting documents, computer files
and specific accounts inthe financial statementsinvolved inthe processing o ftransactions; the list o f
accounting codes usedto group transactions (chart of accounts); the accounting processesfrom the
initiationo f a transaction to its inclusioninthe financial statements; authorization procedures for
transactions; the financial reporting process usedto preparethe financial statements, including significant
accounting estimates and disclosures; financial and accounting policies for the project; budgeting
procedures; financial forecasting procedures; procurement and contract administrationmonitoring
procedures; procedures undertaken for the replenishment o f the Special Account; andauditing
arrangements.

133.     Planning and budgeting. Cash budget preparation will follow government procedures. Detailed
procedures for planning andbudgetingwill be documented inthe financial management manual.
Financialprojections or forecasts for the life o f the projects (analyzed byyear) will be prepared. Onan
annual basis, the project accountants will prepare the cashbudget for the coming periodbasedon the
work program. The cashbudget should includethe figures for the year, analyzed by quarter. The cash
budget for each quarter will reflect the detailed specifications for project activities, schedules (including
procurement plan), and expenditure onproject activities scheduled respectively for the quarter. The
annual cashbudget will be sent to the task team leader at least two months before the beginningo f the
project fiscal year.

134.     Accountingpolicies. IDA and counterpart funds will be accounted for bythe project on a cash
basis. This will be augmented with appropriate records and procedures to track commitments and to
safeguard assets. The accounting records willbe maintainedindual currencies on a computerized
system. The books of accounts will include a cashbook, ledgers, journal vouchers, a fixed asset register,
and a contracts register. The books o f accountsto be used for the project will be opened and a chart o f
accounts will be completed byproject negotiation. Annual financial statementswill be prepared in
accordancewith international accounting standards. All accounting and control procedures will be
documented inthe financial management manual, and will be regularly updated by the PMIU.

135.     Financial monitoring reports. When project implementation begins, the quarterly financial
monitoring reports produced by the project will bereviewed. Adequate accountingand financial
management capacity will enable the PMIUto establish effective financial management and accounting
systems, which should facilitate the production o f the financial monitoringreport.

136.     Internal audit. Considering the overall riskenvironment inAngola, there i s aneedto put inplace
a strong internal control mechanism and quality assurancesystem at all levels. The internal auditor needs
to be a certified accountant with relevant experience with donor-financed projects.

137.     External audits. The govemment will recruit external auditors under terms o freference and
experience acceptableto IDA no later than four months following project effectiveness. .Any firm o f
auditors contracted to carry out the audit shouldmeetthe IDA'Srequirements interms o f independence,
qualifications, and experience. It i s recommended that arrangements for the extemal audit o fthe financial
statements o f the project shouldbe communicated to IDA through agreedterms o f reference.
                                                       33

138.    The extemal audit will cover all Bank funds and counterpart funds. Consolidated audited project
accounts should be produced, taking into consideration the new audit policy guidelines o f the World
Bank. The format to be adopted will be documented inthe financial management manual. Besides
expressing a primary opinion on the audited financial statements incompliance with international
accounting standards, the audit report should be submittedto IDA within six months after the end o f each
financial year. The auditor will be requiredto prepare a separate management letter givingobservations
and comments, and providingrecommendations for improvements o f accounting records, systems,
controls and compliance with financial covenants inthe Financing Agreement.

139.    Financial covenants. A financial management system, including records and accounts will be
maintainedby the PMIU. Financial statements will be prepared ina format acceptable to IDA,and will
be adequateto reflect inaccordancewithsoundaccounting practices the operations, resources, and
expenditures inrespect of the project. Audit of the project financial statements, accounts, and records
will be carried out by an auditor acceptableto IDA and the audit report submitted to IDAwithin six
months o f the end of the financial year. The financial covenants are the standard ones as statedinArticle
IVofthe DevelopmentFinancingAgreement.

F.      Supervision

140.    The Bank will devote an average o f 75 staff weeks per year to supervise the project, and a total o f
300 staff weeks through fiscal 2008. Duringthe first year, supervision will focus on performance o fthe
executing entities inmanaging contracts, procurement, and financial matters, as well as incompleting the
agreed implementation plan. Duringthe followingyears, supervision will focus onprogress inexecuting
works, initiate the development o f the sector strategies, and strengthening capacity o f govemment to
implement Phase2 and future development projects.

G.      Monitoring and evaluation

141.    The project will bebasedon the results-based approach. Key performance indicators have been
specified for each subcomponent of the project, buildingon experience inthe Democratic Republic o f
Congo with a similar multisector emergency reconstructionproject. The project will also make use o fthe
2000/200 1poverty analysis to prepare a baseline survey that couldbe completed during the first year o f
implementation for use inmonitoringimpact o fthe proposedproject as well as o f future operations.

142.    Reviews. Inadditionto intensive supervision bythe Bank staff, reviews to assess progress in
implementingthe agreedactivities will be carried out every six monthsby the Bank, together with the
govemment and the other involvedparties. This will be part o f the government-donor coordination
process. The inter-ministerial steering committee through the PMIUwill beresponsible for preparing the
necessarydocumentation for the reviews and for planning the review meetings. Duringthe first reviews,
special attention will be paidto assessingthe distribution o f donors' support to the P P M W , with a view
to reorienting the IDA support ifnecessaryto ensure the equitable distribution o fresources overall.

143.    A midterm review will be carried out 18 months after project effectiveness to assess progress
under the project, achievement o f overall objectives, role o f the different partners, and to eventually
reorient the project ifneededto ensure that it achieves its objectives. As appropriate, the govemment will
contract a consultant (under project finance) to review and assess progress in implementing the project
and to assist in preparing the necessary documentation for the review. The inter-ministerial steering
committee through the PMIU will be responsible for preparing the necessary documentation for the
review and for planning the midterm review meeting. The midterm review will evaluate progress in
reaching the project and program objectives, and will identify measures to improve performance if
needed. Careful attention will be paid to the performance o f the involved entities in addressing
environmentaland social issues and indesigning and implementing the various activities. Specialists will
assess the environmental and social impacts o f investments, both individually and cumulatively, and the
adequacy of safeguardprocedures agreed for the project.
                                                      34

  H.       Coordinationof donors

  144.     Currently, there is no formal mechanism o f donor coordinationinAngola. The government has
  not yet formally indicatedwhether Angola i s a RoundTable country, with UNDPtaking the lead on
  donor coordination, or a Consultative Group country, with the Bank taking the lead. However, the
  development partners supporting the PPMRRP recognize the importance o f coordinating their efforts to
  direct assistanceto priority needs ina timelymanner, to prevent gaps or overlaps, to ensure sustainable
  budget expenditure planning, and to reinforce their contribution to the policy dialogue. They have agreed
  to coordinate assistanceto the extent possible.

  I. EnvironmentalaspectsandcompliancewiththeWorldBankSafeguardPolicies

  145.     As an emergency recovery operation, processedunder World BankOP 8.50, safeguard
  instrumentsdo not needto be approved anddisclosed incountry andat the InfoShopprior to appraisal.
  The project i s classifiedenvironmental assessment Category B. Itwill focus on rehabilitationand
  reconstruction o f existing infrastructure and on deliveryo fbasic services. Currently, the environmental
  policy (OP 4.01), the involuntary resettlement policy (OP 4.12) (becauseo fthe potential for land
  acquisition or loss of livelihoods), and the pest managementpolicy (OP 4.09) appear to be triggered
  (because project includes procurement o fpesticides). Whether the forest policy (OP 4.36) or the natural
  habitats policy (OP 4.04) are triggered will be determined inthe context o fthe upcoming environmental
  and social impact study.

  146.     Dueto the multisectornature ofthe program, andbecauseall the environmentalandsocial impact
  characteristics o f the project activities are not knowninsufficient detail at this time, a programmatic
  process or a strategic approach for environmentaland social assessment (including screening and
  categorization, preparation, public consultation, disclosure, review, approval andmonitoring) will beput
  into place and implementedover the four year life o fthe project. Inaddition, a resettlement policy
  framework will be prepared, addressing the policy, principles, institutional arrangements and procedures
  that the Borrower will follow ineach subproject involvingresettlement or loss o f economic activities, and
  disclosed separately. Becausethe project intends to provide pesticides, apest and pesticides management
  plan will be prepared, outlining pest management approaches,pesticide use and management; policy and
  regulatory framework, institutional capacity, and plansfor monitoring and evaluation. Given
  uncertainties regardingthe location o f some o f the activities, particularly o f the education subcomponent,
' and the complexity o f Angola's environmental and social situation, this approach i s designed to ensure
  that the site selection, design and implementation of all activities comply with World Bank safeguard
  policies. All individualenvironmental and social impact assessments, environmental managementplans,
  pest managementplans, and resettlement action plans for the various activities o fthe Phase 1project are
  expected to be completed within one year following the project effectiveness.

  147.     Becauselocal capacity for environmental and social management i s currently weak, it i s
  anticipated that an environmentalconsulting firm will be engagedfor an initial period o f three years to
  manage and oversee the environmental andsocial management process o f Phase 1project andpreparation
  o f the implementationo f Phase2, while providing institutional strengthening and on-the-job training
  services throughout the period, The firmwill inaddition help to buildthe capacity o f the Secretary o f
  Environment Estate, o fthe line ministries, and o f the other entities participating inthe project to manage
  environmental issues. The environmental consulting firm will also focus on ensuring that investments are
  screenedfor environmental and social impacts and that measuresare identifiedand put inplace to prevent
  or mitigate potential adverse affects. This firm will work closely with the Ministryo fPlanning and its
  PMKJ, the ministries and agencies concerned, and the Bank to develop procedures that will improve
  quality and sustainability o f activities through compliance with World Bank Safeguard Policies.




                                                         35

 PART5 -BENEFITSAND RISKS

A.       Benefits

148.     The proposedprogram (EMRP) will provide several importantbenefits. Most importantly, it will
help prevent the further deterioration o fhealthand loss o f life o fpeople who are livinginextreme poverty
by contributing to food security and delivery ofhealthcare and other basic services, restoringwater and
electricity supplies, and improvingpublic healthconditions inurban areas. Itwill helprevive the
economy bybringingdown the costs of transportation, which will increase the competitiveness o f goods.
Itwill help to reintegrate the country byreestablishingtransportation linksbetween the country's
provinces. Itwill help to reduce poverty among both agricultural producers and consumersby stimulating
agricultural production and reducing costs and time o f transporting food from producers to markets. Over
the mediumand longer terms, through capacity building,it will benefit the Angolan people by helping to
create an improvedlegaland regulatory framework and more stable and effective institutions-critical
conditions for better governance. Finally, it will help lay the groundwork for future policy and
institutionalreforms and a future investment program for the country's development.


B.       ExitStrategy

149.     Ifprogressinensuring stable,transparentgovemment withbroad-basedsupport isunsatisfactory,
IDA, inclose consultationwith other development partners and civil society, will review its activities and
consider restructuring, scaling back, or suspendingits project.




                                                     36



