                                                                              E1835
                     Republic of Angola - Ministry of Planning                    v1

            Emergency Multisector Recovery Project (EMRP) ­ Phase 1
                     Project Management Implementation Unit


     Environmental and Social Management Process Report



                                  Table of Contents


Vol. 1. ­ Executive Summary

Vol. 2. ­ Environmental and Social Diagnosis and Institutional and Legal Framework

Vol. 3 ­ Environmental and Social Management Plan

Vol. 4 ­ Operational Manual

               REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA



          MINISTRY OF PLANNING

EMERGENCY MULTISECTOR RECOVERY PROJECT (EMRP)
  PROJECT MANAGEMENT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT

                                     PREAMBLE



The present Environment and Social Management Process Report is the basis for Process
Environmental Impact Assessment to respect during the implementation of EMRP.

The Report is constituted by four volumes, including this executive summary.

The first presents a diagnosis of environmental and social management and intuitional and
legal framework of Republic of Angola, the second presents a proposal for an environmental
and social management plan for the EMRP and finally the operational manual states the
procedures to be adopted and the entities involved for the integration of environmental and
social component in the development of the sub-projects.




                                Luanda, 28th September 2007


                SOAPRO                                        PROCESL




25107pr_ing

                   Environmental and Social Management Process Report
                   Volume 1 ­ Executive Summary




                                                  INDEX


                                                                                                                    Page

1 - INTRODUCTION.................................................................................................    2

2 - SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROCESS ...............                                                      2

3 - PROJECT DESCRIPTION .................................................................................            3

4 - FACTS PRECEDING THE PROJECT..............................................................                        4

5 - REQUIREMENTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT..................                                                      5

6 - LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMEN-
    TAL MANAGEMENT .........................................................................................         5

7 - PREPARATION,            APPRAISAL                  AND           IMPLEMENTATION                          OF
    SUB-PROJECTS...................................................................................................  6

8 - SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT...................................                                           6

9 - STRENGTHENING PROFESSIONAL CAPACITIES, TRAINING AND
    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ..............................................................................              7




25107md_ing_a.doc                                                                                                     1/7

                     Environmental and Social Management Process Report
                     Volume 1 ­ Executive Summary




1 - INTRODUCTION

Government of Angola asked for financing to World Bank and IDA on order to develop the
Emergency Multi-Sector Recovery Project (EMRP or Project), which will be implemented by the
Ministry of Planning in cooperation with other entities and is intended to benefit several provinces
of Republic of Angola.

The Project will be developed in the next years, the integration of the environmental and social
component being foreseen until July 2010. Actions will take place in the provinces of Bié, Huambo,
Malange, Moxico, Kwanza Norte, Luanda and Uíge. In addition to being among those most affected
by the war, these provinces have also received much less public resources than others.

The Project objectives are the following:

      a) To improve the rural incomes and promote the food safety in the provinces most affected
         by the conflict;

      b) To improve access to basic services for education and health in the provinces most affected
         by the conflict;

      c) To rehabilitate and reconstruct critical infra-structures;

      d) To reinforce the Government capacity, at all levels, to formulate, prepare, implement and
         manage development plans, at medium and long term.



2 - SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROCESS

Being aware that the implementation of the several sub-projects included in EMRP may result in
some negative impacts over the life quality of people or over the environment, a document was
prepared entitled "Environmental and Social Management Process Report" that intends to address
those issues and takes into account the legal and regulation basis for environmental policy in
Angola, as well as the operational policies of the World Bank.

This document defines methodologies and procedures concerning environmental and social
planning and revision, appraisal and implementation of the sub-projects that integrate EMRP, as
well as concerning specific obligations towards management and monitoring of environmental and
social issues related to these sub-projects, being also considered the activities concerning training
plan foreseen within the Project.




25107md_ing_a.doc                                                                                 2/7

                      Environmental and Social Management Process Report
                      Volume 1 ­ Executive Summary




3 - PROJECT DESCRIPTION

The budget of EMRP is 225 million U.S. dollars (Phases 1 and 2), IDA contributing with 153
million U.S. dollars.

EMRP is a single project split into two phase of financing. Due to less than expected financing
under IDA 13, the World Bank in 2005 could finance only a part of its intended contribution to the
overall emergency program. It was therefore decided to split the operation into two phases, with the
second phase to be financed under IDA 14. In response to feedback from the Bank's Board during
discussions of EMRP- Phase 1, the second phase has been simplified and the size of the credit
reduced. Unlike Phase 1, Phase 2 will support only reconstruction or rehabilitation of critical
infrastructure and the feeder roads. It will not support health, education, or agriculture (except for
feeder roads) areas that were supported in EMRP- Phase1. Measures to strengthen of both project
management and of general government operations have been added to EMRP-Phase 2.

EMRP-Phase 1 is supporting activities that address the most urgent needs and can be implemented
quickly, namely:

      · Activities to restart agriculture (particularly production and multiplication of seeds and
        planting material);

      · Provisional of essential drugs, logistical support, and refresher courses for nurses and
        auxiiary nurses to improve health services;

      · Provision of teaching and learning materials and assistance to initiate teacher's training;

      · Support to restore water services and in three provincial capitals;

      · Technical assistance and capacity building for capacity decentralization;

      · Initial training programs;

      · Preparation of the environmental and social impact assessment for overall project, and the
        social and environmental management plan for phase 1 activities;

      · Financing the management, monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of phase 1
        and engineering studies (detailed design, tender documents) and preparatory activities for
        phase 2 investments.

EMRP- Phase 2 will build on the activities of EMRP-Phase 1 and focus on upgrading infrastructure,
supporting rehabilitation or construction of feeder roads, trunk roads (including bridges), electricity
services, rural water supply in a provincial capital, and urban infrastructure. It will also support the



25107md_ing_a.doc                                                                                    3/7

                     Environmental and Social Management Process Report
                     Volume 1 ­ Executive Summary




preparation of the medium-term sector strategies, capacity building, decentralization and local
development, and continue support for program and project management.

The fulfilment of the intended objectives relies on the development of four components:

      COMPONENT A: SUPPORT TO SOCIAL SECTORS AND TO RURAL DEVELOPMENT


        In this component there are subprojects relating to the recovery of the capacity of response
        of the agricultural production, to the rehabilitation of rural roads, to health care facilities, to
        school buildings and to demining activities.

      COMPONENT B: REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION OF CRITICAL INFRA-STRUCTURES


        In this component there are sub-projects referring to transport infra-structures, electric
        energy supply, water supply and wastewater collection.

      COMPONENT C: REINFORCEMENT OF THE INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY AND DEVELOPMENT OF

      SECTOR STRATEGIES


      COMPONENT D: PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING




4 - FACTS PRECEDING THE PROJECT

Although it had been a country which exported a lot of agricultural products (namely coffee), after
the independence in 1975 the situation in Angola deteriorated quickly, with land release,
degradation of roads and storage facilities for agricultural products due to fighting, destruction of
infra-structures, loss of agricultural machines, disappearance of seed stocks, rupture of credit
mechanisms, disruption of commercial circuits for goods supply, proliferation of mined areas and
progressive desertification of wide rural areas.

Besides that, mainly in recent years, a massive migration of people from rural zones to the cities
occurred, which entrained the disarticulation of local family support structures, release of
educational and health care facilities and absence of maintenance of basic infra-structures, which
caused simultaneously an excessive pressure over some urban zones, specially Luanda, where there
are difficulties of adjustment of the offer of goods, services and jobs to the excess of demand,
leading to public health risks, wide degradation of life quality and marginality phenomena.

This Project intends to contribute to reduce these problems, enabling conditions to fix the
population at rural zones, to increase safety in food supply, to improve the access of people to


25107md_ing_a.doc                                                                                      4/7

                       Environmental and Social Management Process Report
                       Volume 1 ­ Executive Summary




health care and educational facilities and to promote higher quality levels for services of basic infra-
structures, as well as to ensure professional qualification and good operational conditions for infra-
structures and collective equipment through adequate training programmes.



5 - REQUIREMENTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT

In order to guarantee that the sub-projects will be developed in respect for the social and
environmental requirements, relevant Safeguard Policies of the World Bank will be taken into
account, namely those related with Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01), Plagues and Parasite
Control (OP 4.09), Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12), as well as others that may be considered
important, like, for instance, Physical Cultural Resources (OP 4.11), Forests (OP 4.36) and Natural
Habitats (OP 4.04).

                                   SAFEGUARD POLICIES                            YES      NO

       Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                      X

       Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                       X

       Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                X

       Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                  X

       Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                            X

       Indigenous Peoples (OB/BP 4.10)                                                     X

       Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                      X

       Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                         X

       Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                                    X

       Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                             X




Applicability of these policies will be evaluated later in more detail, when more concrete
information about the sub-projects under consideration will be available.



6 - LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
     MANAGEMENT

Within the work carried out, and to complement the environmental and social diagnosis of the
Republic of Angola developed to frame the Project and to define some specific aspects of reality
that are extremely important to support further Project development, a compilation and analysis was
done, as complete as possible, of the Angolan legislation and regulations relevant to the design and

25107md_ing_a.doc                                                                                    5/7

                      Environmental and Social Management Process Report
                      Volume 1 ­ Executive Summary




implementation of the sub-projects, both in what respects to fundamental and strategic diploma and
in what relates to more specific ones, namely for environmental assessment of projects.

A characterisation of the institutional structure for environmental management in Angola was also
done, identifying competences and fields of action of the relevant entities and showing the kind and
level of intervention of the several entities involved in these type of processes, with a special
reference to the Ministry for Urbanism and Environment which is the entity entitled of
environmental policy management in Angola.



7 - PREPARATION, APPRAISAL AND IMPLEMENTATION OF SUB-
     -PROJECTS

The process of execution of the sub-projects will include their classification according to the
categories of the World Bank and their social and environmental assessment will respect pre-
defined procedures, for which tables were prepared defining criteria in the form of short-lists to be
expanded in further stages of the Project when sub-projects are more advanced.

The fulfilment of those criteria will lead to the satisfaction of the legal requirements and other
applicable restrictions, as well as the technical and economical feasibility of the sub-projects, which
implementation requires the adequate training of staff as essential.



8 - SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT

Additional management actions may include the preparation of Environmental Management Plans,
a Social and Environmental Management Plan being included where are described actions to
develop and indicated the entities responsible for them.

An Operational Manual is also presented which details ere the process for environmental impact
assessment and the procedures to follow in each of their stages for the sub-projects that integrate the
EMRP.

In a later stage of the Project a Pesticide Management Plan will be presented, as well as, whenever
necessary, an Involuntary Resettlement Plan, where some specific complementary aspects of the
utmost importance for the successful implementation of EMRP will be detailed.




25107md_ing_a.doc                                                                                   6/7

                      Environmental and Social Management Process Report
                      Volume 1 ­ Executive Summary




9 - STRENGTHENING PROFESSIONAL CAPACITIES, TRAINING AND
     TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

The purpose of strengthening professional capacities, training and technical assistance to the several
participants is that the measures proposed in this report be fully and efficiently applied, integrating
the environmental and social component into the several sub-projects to develop, in order to
promote the improvement of life conditions of the population and the sustainable management of
natural resources in the territories concerned.

Activities of this kind will be carried out ­ at provincial, municipal or communal level ­ through
training courses, thematic meetings and actions envisaging environmental awareness and education,
to be programmed later and for which informative documents will be prepared and produced.




25107md_ing_a.doc                                                                                   7/7

