                                                  RP1180
                                                  v2




         Republika e Kosovës
  Republika Kosova-Republic of Kosovo
         Qeveria –Vlada-Government

Ministria e Mjedisit dhe Planifikimit Hapësinor
 Ministarstvo Sredine i Prostornog Planiranja
Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning




  RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK

          FOR LAND ACQUISITION

    FOR THE NEW MINING FIELD ZONE




                       1
                             LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS




CDF          Community Development Fund (local NGO)

EUR          Euros

IFC          International Finance Corporation (World Bank)

IFC PS-5     IFC Performance Standard 5 (Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement)

KCA          Kosovo Cadastral Agency

KEK          Kosovo Electricity Company

KPA          Kosovo Property Agency

LPTAP        Lignite Power Technical Assistance Project

M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation

MED          Ministry of Economic Development

MESP         Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning

MLSW         Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare

RAP          Resettlement Action Plan

RPF          Resettlement Policy Framework

SESA         Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment

WB OP 4.12 World Bank Operational Policy 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement)




                                           2
                                                              LIST OF CONTENTS



INTRODUCTION .......................................................................................................................................................4
PRINCIPLES AND OBJECTIVES ...........................................................................................................................5
INSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES .................................................................................................................6
ELIGIBILITY AND ENTITLEMENTS ...................................................................................................................8
    RESETTLEMENT OPTIONS ..........................................................................................................................................8
    RESETTLEMENT OPTIONS IN THE LIGNITE POWER PROJECT .................................................................................... 11
    PEOPLE AFFECTED BY LOSS OF LAND (FARMLAND, GRAZING, FOREST LAND) .......................................................... 12
    PEOPLE AFFECTED BY LOSS OF HOUSING.................................................................................................................. 14
    PEOPLE AFFECTED BY LOSS OF BUSINESSES OR COMMERCIAL PREMISES .................................................................. 14
    PEOPLE AFFECTED BY LOSS OF EMPLOYMENT .......................................................................................................... 15
    TRANSITIONAL COSTS .............................................................................................................................................. 15
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA ....................................................................................................................................... 16
    CUT-OFF DATES ....................................................................................................................................................... 16
    THE HOUSEHOLD ..................................................................................................................................................... 16
    VIABILITY OF REMAINING AREAS IN LIGNITE POWER PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................................................. 16
VALUATION OF LAND AND ASSETS................................................................................................................. 17
    PRINCIPLES OF VALUATION...................................................................................................................................... 17
    SPECIAL PROCEDURES FOR LIGNITE POWER PROJECT ............................................................................................. 17
    SPECIAL PROCEDURES FOR LIGNITE POWER PROJECT AND PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS ............................................. 18
TIMETABLE AND BUDGET.................................................................................................................................. 19
    INTEGRATED TIMETABLE AND BUDGET ................................................................................................................... 19
    ESTIMATED TIMETABLE AND BUDGET..................................................................................................................... 19
    1.   INTRODUCTION .............................................................................................................................................. 20
    2.   BASELINE SOCIOECONOMIC STUDIES AND DEFINITIONS ................................................................................ 20
    3.   THE LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK.............................................................................................. 21
    4.   COMPENSATION AND REHABILITATION .......................................................................................................... 21
    5.   TRANSPORT AND OTHER TRANSITIONAL ISSUES ............................................................................................ 22
    6.   ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION ...................................................................................................................... 22
    7.   PUBLIC CONSULTATION AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES ................................................................................ 23
    8.   SCHEDULE AND RESPONSIBILITIES FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE RESETTLEMENT PLAN ............................. 23
    9.   COSTS ............................................................................................................................................................ 24
    10. MONITORING AND EVALUATION (M&E) ....................................................................................................... 24




                                                                                  3
Introduction
     This Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) for the zone of New Mining Field defined
     with Government decision no. 02/57 of date 13.03.2009, establishes the Government
     of Kosovo’s policies concerning the resettlement of populations that will be relocated
     due to the development of major infrastructure and mining activities that will require
     the acquisition or expropriation of real property. In particular, this RPF is intended to
     apply to all aspects of the lignite mining and power project known as the Lignite
     Power Project, including any resettlements required due to land acquisition for mining
     operations and ancillary facilities.

     Specific details of this RPF as it applies to the Lignite Power Project are discussed.
     The Project Company directing the Lignite Power Project will have the right to
     invoke the Government’s expropriation authority approval of the resettlement, which
     will trigger the need for development of Resettlement Action Plan or Plans (RAP/s)
     under this RPF. This RPF is meant to guide the development of the initial RAP for the
     Lignite Power Project as well as future RAPs developed in regard to that and other
     projects.

     Key issues addressed by this document include:

           The definition of parties responsible for developing and approving the
            definitive RAP/s for projects necessitating the resettlement of populations. The
            first RAP for a project shall incorporate all the definitions, eligibility criteria,
            benefits and procedures to be applied throughout a project. If a project
            involves multiple acquisitions over time, it may be appropriate to prepare a
            separate RAP for each acquisition phase. For example, with the Lignite Power
            Project, the mine’s expansion will take place over a period of many years.
            However, the criteria, benefits and procedures should be the same in each
            RAP.

           The definition of the institutional responsibilities for financing and
            implementation of a RAP.

           The scope of the RAP.




                                             4
Principles and Objectives
     As expressed in this RPF, the primary objective of the Government is to minimize
     land acquisition and displacement in the development of necessary infrastructure and
     activities. Such objectives are consistent with international standards, specifically the
     World Bank’s Operational Policy OP 4.12 and the International Finance Corporation
     (IFC)’s Performance Standard PS-5. Where displacement or the loss of economic
     assets and means of livelihood are unavoidable, the objective of this policy is to
     ensure that affected people can improve or at the very least recover their standard of
     living and livelihoods in the shortest possible time.

     This RPF recognizes the significant social and economic impacts of land acquisition
     and resettlement. The principal social and economic impacts of land acquisition
     include:

           Loss of land. Where all or a significant part of a person’s farmland is lost, they
            will lose their income and often a significant part of their food supply (for
            instance, vegetables, milk and poultry). In the process of moving to a new site
            they are likely to lose at least one harvest.

           Loss of housing. As well as losing the physical structure of the house, people
            will lose services and associated facilities: water supply, drainage, road access
            and electricity. In the process of moving they will also incur significant
            transitional costs, including transport for themselves and their personal effects,
            legal fees, taxes, and so on.

           Loss of businesses. As well as loss of physical premises, small businesses may
            be affected by the loss of business locations and loss of clientele, especially
            their regular customers. In the process of moving they will lose business and
            may incur significant transitional costs, including the transport of equipment,
            stock, etc.

           Loss of employment. If an affected business closes the employees will lose
            their jobs. Other people may lose employment if they are obliged to move a
            long distance from their existing workplaces.

           Loss of services and cultural heritage. This includes loss of access to facilities
            such as schools, clinics, mosques, cemeteries, war memorials, and others.




                                            5
Institutional Responsibilities
      When Project Companies are involved in the development of major infrastructure and
      activities necessitating land acquisition and resettlement, the responsibilities of the
      Project Company, Government, and Municipalities should be clear. To ensure that
      displaced people can improve or recover their standard of living, the division of
      responsibilities for land acquisition and resettlement between the Project Company,
      Government, Municipalities and others shall be as follows:


         Preparation of Resettlement Action Plans (RAP/s). The Project Company shall be
         responsible for preparing RAP/s. Such RAP/s shall be based on the Strategic
         Environmental and Social Assessment (SESA), the surveys carried out by Prism
         and the Community Development Fund (CDF), this RPF and any other studies or
         proposals that have been carried out for Lignite Power Technical Assistance
         Project (LPTAP), Ministry of Economic Development (MED) or Ministry of
         Environment and Spatial Planning (MESP). A detailed RAP shall be prepared for
         each project that causes expropriation of land, physical displacement of
         population, or loss of income because of changes in land use or access to
         resources. Each RAP shall be subject to public consultation. Each RAP shall
         comply with internationally accepted standards such as the World Bank’s OP 4.12
         and the IFC/Equator Group PS-5. Resettlement Plans must be based on reliable
         up-to-date information and shall include basic information about the respective
         projects and an analysis of the alternative options for the proposed projects and an
         analysis of the alternative options for the proposed project as well as any legal
         issues relating to the resettlement or any gaps between the laws of Kosovo and
         international standards. Finally, each RAP shall include a detailed budget and
         timetable. A generic outline for such RAP/s is presented in Annex A.
            Approval of RAP/s. The expropriation authority (the authority within MESP
             responsible for expropriation as established by Government Decision No.
             05/147 of date 05.10.2010) shall be responsible for the approval of the RAP
             and should receive comments from parties included and the affected
             municipalities. The agreements reached with the affected families for
             valuation and compensation of assets could take the form of a civil contract or
             formal agreement between the Project Company and the representatives of the
             affected families.


            Valuation. The Project Company will be responsible for the evaluation of
             assets and assign the sum of compensation, to ensure that the valuation is
             based on the Market Price and on Replacement Value..


            Owners displaced during war. The Kosovo Property Agency (KPA) is
             responsible for identifying and contacting any property owners that fled during
             the war. The mandate of the KPA is limited to its present function of
             determining ownership of assets. The Project Company will be responsible for
             negotiating with the affected property owners. The options offered to affected
             property owners that have been displaced as the result of the war will be
             exactly the same as those offered to other affected owners.


                                            6
   Implementation and Monitoring of the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). The
    Project Company shall be responsible for compensation in cash, provision of
    land-for-land options, development of new resettlement sites, immovable
    property having a value that is equal to the compensation owed; or a
    combination of cash and immovable property, which together have a value
    equal to the compensation owed and/or for payment of compensation to the
    affected families. The Expropriation Authority shall be responsible for
    monitoring of implementation of the RAP from Project Company.


   Independent Grievance Commission for Claim Review. An independent
    grievance commission shall be established to cover all aspects of the project.
    This Commission will be composed by representatives of: Project Company,
    Municipality, Expropriation Authority, Community and MLSW. If the owner
    or the interest holder of the immovable property which is subject of
    resettlement reasonably believes that his rights are violated, then such person
    may file a complaint in front of this commission. The manner of functioning
    of this independent grievance commission for claim review will be defined in
    each RAP. The decision of the independent Grievance Commission for Claim
    Review will be definitive and if the case may be that the party is not satisfied
    by such decision, the valuation of such property will not be subject of
    resettlement according to this framework and the procedure and legal terms
    foreseen by the law on expropriation of Immovable Property.

    The Project Company shall incorporate the procedure of the Independent
    Grievance Commission for Claim Review in a detailed manner in the RAP.
    This procedure of the commission shall cover all aspects of the project, rather
    than simply the resettlement program. The commission for claim review with
    its composition as described above it is supported from an technical expert
    who shall have direct access to the highest levels of management of the
    Project Company, local government and central government. This commission
    shall be financed by the Project Company, but shall report directly to Cabinet
    or the Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning and to the International
    Financial Agencies involved in financing the project. The technical expert
    shall have an office in the project area and shall have transport so that he/she
    could visit and investigate anywhere in the project area. The telephone, e-mail
    and location of the of the expert’s office shall be widely publicized. All
    complaints or concerns shall be registered in a confidential database. The
    Commission shall be required to investigate and respond to any complaints or
    concerns within a period of no more than 30 days. The technical expert shall
    also prepare quarterly reports, showing the number of complaints, identifying
    the issues raised and the measures that were taken to resolve the problems that
    were presented. The names and contact information of the complainants
    (addresses, phone numbers, e-mail, etc.) shall remain confidential; they shall
    be registered in the database, but should not be disclosed in the quarterly
    reports.




                                   7
Eligibility and Entitlements
     Resettlement Options

        The Entitlement Matrix shown in Table 1 summarizes the resettlement options that
        shall be offered to the different categories of persons affected by the projects.
        Resettlement options in the context of the Lignite Power Project are described in
        greater detail following Table 1.

                           Table 1: Entitlement Matrix – Resettlement Options

       Affected People                        Options                         Observations
                               People Affected by Loss of Farmland
Owners with full legal title          An alternative plot on         An alternative plot or cash
whose plots will be fully              rehabilitated land +           compensation is the preferred
affected                               compensation for other         option for people that depend
                                       assets (barns,                 on farming. Compensation
(people whose houses are
                                       outbuildings, permanent        must be sufficient to allow
affected are also entitled to
                                       crops, etc.), or               the beneficiary to acquire a
the options described below)
                                                                      plot better or at least equal to
                                      Cash compensation for          the affected plot.
                                       land and other assets
                                       + all transitional costs
                                       (transport, legal fees, loss
                                       of crops or earnings)
Recognized owners that do             An alternative plot on         In the absence of full legal
not have full legal title to the       rehabilitated land +           title the owner/s must be
land and whose plots will be           compensation for other         recognized as the person/s
fully affected                         assets (barns,                 with full, unchallenged rights
                                       outbuildings, permanent        to the property. This would
(people whose houses are
                                       crops, etc.), or               require regularization of
affected will also be entitled
                                                                      ownership rights or an
to the options described              Cash compensation for          affidavit from neighbors,
below)                                 land and other assets          validated by the municipality.
                                       + all transitional costs
                                       (transport, legal fees, loss
                                       of crops and/or earnings)
Landowners that have fled             An alternative plot on         It is understood that most
the area as a result of the war        rehabilitated land +           people that have fled will
in Kosovo, and whose                   compensation for other         choose cash compensation.
properties are fully affected          assets (barns,                 The KPA will be responsible
                                       outbuildings, permanent        for deciding who would be
                                       crops, etc.), or               entitled to benefits.
                                      Cash compensation for
                                       land and other assets
                                       + any transitional costs
                                       (transport, legal fees, loss


                                                  8
      Affected People                      Options                       Observations
                                    of crops and/or earnings)
Landowners whose                   Compensation for the         The law on force defines the
properties are partially            loss of farmland and         cases of partial expropriation.
affected (i.e. where the            other assets in the
remaining areas are viable)         affected area (barns,
                                    outbuildings, crops, etc.)
Tenant farmers or                  Compensation for the         Ensure that affected tenants
sharecroppers                       loss of two years net        can take on new tenancy
                                    earnings                     contracts.
                                    + all transitional costs
                                    (transport and legal fees)
Non-owners occupying               Cash compensation for        Not entitled to resettlement
property belonging to people        value of improvements        benefits.
who fled during the last war        made and standing crops.
in Kosovo
             People Affected by the Loss of their Homes and Residential Land
Recognized owners with or          A new house and a            The replacement housing will
without formal title to their       residential plot in a        satisfy basic standards for
houses                              resettlement village, or     social housing and services
                                                                 and will be provided
(In addition to compensation       Compensation at              regardless of the condition or
for loss of farmland)               replacement cost             value     of    the     affected
                                    + all transitional costs     property, if the illegal objects
                                    (legal fees, taxes,          is built in a private property
                                    transport of personal        from its owner, and: a) on the
                                    effects, etc.)               date actual construction
                                                                 activity commenced, it was
                                                                 impossible for the owner

                                                                 to obtain the necessary
                                                                 construction permit from the
                                                                 concerned          Municipal
                                                                 Authority

                                                                 because, as of such date, no
                                                                 urban or spatial plan covering
                                                                 such property had yet been

                                                                 issued; and b) neither the
                                                                 building nor its construction
                                                                 were in violation of any

                                                                 other law or regulation then
                                                                 applicable.
                                                                 In the absence of full legal
                                                                 title the owner/s must be


                                               9
       Affected People                        Options                       Observations
                                                                    recognized as the person/s
                                                                    with full, unchallenged rights
                                                                    to the property. This would
                                                                    require regularization of
                                                                    ownership rights or an
                                                                    affidavit from neighbors,
                                                                    validated by the municipality.
Homeowners that have fled             A new house and a            It is understood that most
the area as a result of the last       residential plot in a        people that have fled will
war in Kosovo                          resettlement village, or     choose cash compensation.
                                                                    The KPA will be responsible
                                      Compensation at              for confirmation of
                                       replacement cost             ownership.
                                       + any transitional costs
                                       (legal fees, taxes,
                                       transport, etc.)
Tenants with formal tenancy           Compensation equivalent      The tenant will be
agreements                             to six months rent           compensated for the damage
                                                                    as a consequence of the
                                       + all transitional costs
                                                                    contract termination. Need to
                                       (legal fees and taxes,
                                                                    determine whether new
                                       transport, etc.)
                                                                    tenancy agreements can be
                                                                    arranged. The beneficiary
                                                                    must have a formal
                                                                    agreement from before the
                                                                    “cut-off” date for eligibility.
Non-owner residential                 Transitional allowance to
occupants, including                   to move chattels
occupants of homes
                                      Compensation of 3
abandoned by people during
                                       months rent for
the war (Squatters).
                                       equivalent space
                                       elsewhere.
                People Affected by Loss of Businesses and Other Enterprises
Owners of business premises           Replacement premises in      Different rates of
such as shops, workshops or            a resettlement village, or   compensation are offered to
garages                                                             encourage the owner to re-
                                      Compensation for loss of     establish the business or set
                                       the premises
                                                                    up a new business in the
                                       + compensation for the       affected municipality.
                                       loss of 6 months net
                                       income or 12 months net
                                       income if the beneficiary
                                       re-establishes a business
                                       in the municipality
                                       + all transitional costs,


                                                 10
      Affected People                      Options                       Observations
                                    including packing and
                                    transport of equipment,
                                    legal fees, taxes, etc.
Non-owners                         Compensation for loss of     Different rates of
                                    6 months net income or       compensation are offered to
                                    12 months net income if      encourage the owner to re-
                                    the beneficiary re-          establish the business or set
                                    establishes a business in    up a new business in the
                                    the affected municipality    affected municipality.
                                    + all transitional costs,
                                    including packing and
                                    transport of equipment,
                                    legal fees, taxes, etc.
Government, Municipalities         Compensation of assets at To be agreed on a case by
and Public Utility Companies        replacement cost, or      case basis.
(for assets such as school
                                   Replacement of assets at
buildings, clinics, water
                                    the new resettlement sites
supply, electricity
distribution lines, etc.)
Community assets,                  Relocation and               To be agreed with the
particularly mosques,               restoration, or              communities on a case by
cemeteries & churches               replacement                  case basis.




                         People Affected by Loss of Employment
Full time employees that lose      Compensation equivalent      Compensation will be based
employment because of               to six months’ salary        on their average earnings
expropriation of their                                           over the previous 12 months.
                                   Financial support (Euro
employer’s premises                                              Help will be given to find
                                    1,000) to cover costs of     alternative employment.
                                    skills training or job
                                    search.
People losing regular part         Compensation equivalent      Compensation will be based
time employment                     to six months part-time      on their average earnings
                                    earnings plus support to     over the previous 12 months.
                                    find employment or           Help will be given to find
                                    opportunities for training   alternative employment.

     Resettlement Options in the Lignite Power Project

       In the context of the Lignite Power Project, the following resettlement options shall be
       offered to the different categories of persons affected by that project:




                                              11
People affected by loss of land (farmland, grazing, forest land)

  Landowners. People whose land is affected by the mining or power projects shall be
  offered either an alternative plot on an area of land rehabilitated from the large area of
  overburden dumps that presently belong to Kosovo Electricity Company (KEK)
  (“land for land”), or cash compensation sufficient to acquire another plot of land of
  equivalent area and quality to the affected plot. All transitional costs shall be borne
  by the project company directly or compensated. These costs shall include the costs of
  transporting equipment, machinery, livestock, and all other moveable assets, all the
  legal fees and taxes needed for the transfer of their land and acquisition of
  replacement plots, and compensation for any loss of crops or other loss of income
  and/or subsistence.

  The three options shall be offered to all landowners whose plots are fully affected,
  who depend on the affected property for a significant part of their livelihood or
  subsistence, and who do not own or occupy other viable holdings. Landowners that do
  not depend on their land: i.e. whose land is partially affected, who rent their land out
  under formal tenancy or sharecropping arrangements or who have other viable
  holdings, would only be eligible for compensation. The criteria for defining which
  properties are classified as fully affected and which are classified as partially affected
  are set out below in“Eligibility Criteria”. These options shall be offered regardless of
  whether or not the landowners reside on the affected plot (entitlements for people
  whose houses are affected are set out separately below). The options shall be offered
  to all those people that have legal title to the land or who are recognized as having
  full, unchallenged rights of ownership. In relation to irregular rights the following
  points should be noted:

         Land that was originally acquired through an irregular transfer (such as an
          unregistered civil contract) will have to have the arrangement regularized by
          the courts and then registered at the appropriate municipal cadastre office,
          which in turn will inform the Kosovo Cadastral Agency (KCA). The cost of
          regularizing the title shall be covered by the Project Company.

         Other persons that claim ownership but lack full legal titles will have to show
          they have been living and working at the effected land for the last 10 years or
          have inherited or legally acquired usufruct rights to the land. The claim will be
          reviewed by the Project Company’s resettlement office and must be backed
          with evidence from the municipality (for instance, tax records), government
          institutions (for instance, school records) or affidavits from neighbors.

         If there are outstanding claims on the property, including disputes over
          ownership, boundaries or inheritance the Project Company shall deposit the
          estimated value of the land and property in a special account and shall only
          pay the compensation or provide other resettlement benefits once the dispute
          has been adjudicated in the courts. If there is a mortgage on the property the
          Project Company shall negotiate with the mortgager with the aim of
          transferring the mortgage to the new property acquired by the affected
          landowner.

         The KPA will be responsible for determining the ownership of land that was
          abandoned and/or occupied by others during the 1999 war and subsequent


                                          12
       periods of unrest. Once the KPA has established ownership of the land, the
       owner will be eligible for exactly the same resettlement benefits as any other
       affected landowner. Non-owners that are occupying property belonging to
       people that fled during the war will be entitled to cash compensation for
       improvements and payment for loss of standing crops, but will not be entitled
       to any other resettlement benefits.

Rehabilitated land. There is an acute shortage of good agricultural land in the area
around the proposed mining and power complex. The option of providing a plot of
rehabilitated land is intended to encourage the Project Company to rehabilitate and
make use of a large area of overburden dumps that is presently owned by KEK. To
make this option more attractive, the Project Company will offer affected landowners
a larger area of land than the plot that is affected and/or a package of additional
benefits, which might include technical assistance and/or the use of shared equipment.

Alternative Plots. Compensation that is directed toward the purchase of alternative
plots encourages affected households to acquire new plots of agricultural land. The
amount available for such purchase shall be determined on the basis of the
replacement value of the affected land, housing and other immovable assets, plus 10%
incentive payment intended to make this option more attractive to affected
landowners. Once the amount has been determined, the landowner shall be free to try
and find a suitable plot for more or less the same value. The Project Company shall
review the proposed purchase, to ensure the land and other assets have been correctly
valued and that documents are in order and there are no outstanding disputes over
boundaries, and shall pay for the land, transferring the title directly to the affected
landowner.

Compensation. Cash compensation is not the preferred option for landowners whose
farmland is fully affected. Experience shows that affected families often use their
compensation for other purposes, leaving them without the means to recover their
livelihoods and their previous standards of living. Moreover, land markets in the
project area are not very well developed and it is difficult to establish accurate market
values for agricultural land. Cash compensation is the only realistic option for
landowners whose properties are partially affected. In addition there are situations
when compensation can provide a useful opportunity for affected households to
change their situation. The Project Company shall employ a small team of experts,
who would explain the different options to the affected households and would help
them decide which option would be most appropriate. The experts shall review the
situation of all landowners whose land is affected and shall discuss the use of
compensation with them before their compensation payments are delivered.

Tenant Farmers and others working the land (sharecroppers, people with use
rights). Tenant farmers shall receive compensation equivalent to two years loss of net
earnings plus all transport costs and legal fees. Such compensation is intended to give
tenants and sharecroppers sufficient time to arrange a new tenancy or sharecropping
agreement and assumes they will lose at least one year of harvest and may need
another year to find a landowner willing to allow them to rent or sharecrop an
equivalent plot of farmland.




                                       13
People affected by loss of housing

  Owners. People whose houses are affected by land acquisition shall be offered the
  options of an alternative house in a new village or cash compensation. These options
  shall be offered to all farmers that reside on their farms and to all households that own
  or occupy homes in the area affected by the project, regardless of the legal status of
  their titles. However it will not apply to tenants that have formal tenancy agreements
  or to people that have occupied houses that were abandoned by people that fled during
  the war.

  The replacement housing shall include the provision of basic social housing that
  satisfies national and municipal standards. The exact size of the replacement house
  and number of rooms shall be determined by the size of the household and not by the
  value of the house that is affected. This option is intended to make resettlement
  attractive for poorer, more vulnerable families, especially people living in sub-
  standard housing conditions. It is also intended as an option that would allow
  neighbors, friends and relatives to continue living in close proximity. Households
  electing to receive replacement houses smaller in floor area than their current homes
  would also receive cash compensation valued to cover the difference in area. If they
  wish, people with larger, more valuable houses will be allowed to opt for cash
  compensation for their houses and other structures and a building plot in the
  resettlement village.

  The new housing project shall provide houses with access to minimum services of
  infrastructure, including road access, drainage, water supply, sewerage, electricity and
  street lighting.

  People that are given new houses in the resettlement village shall be given freehold
  titles, issued in the joint names of both spouses. Non-owners and people whose
  original houses were worth less than the nominal value of the new house will not be
  allowed to sell or transfer their houses to a third party for a period of five years
  without the approval of the manager of the resettlement program. This is to reduce the
  possibility of low income families selling their houses to raise cash.

  Tenants. Tenants that rent their houses or apartments under formal tenancy
  arrangements shall be paid the equivalent of six months rent plus all transitional costs
  such as transport for their personal effects and any legal fees or taxes, and shall be
  given assistance to find suitable alternative accommodation.

People affected by loss of businesses or commercial premises

  The aim is to encourage businessmen and businesswomen to continue operating
  elsewhere or to set up a new business. Where an affected business is conducted on
  premises belonging to the owner, the owner shall be offered the options of an
  alternative site for the business in the resettlement village or compensation for his/her
  land and premises at replacement value. The owner shall also be paid the equivalent
  of six months loss of net earnings if he/she opts for compensation and twelve months
  loss of net earnings if he/she opts to set up the business or open a new business in the
  resettlement village or elsewhere in the municipality. The Project Company shall also
  pay all transitional costs, such as packing and transport of equipment and/or stock to



                                         14
  the new site, legal fees, taxes, and so on, and/or shall provide assistance and logistic
  support to set up a new business.

  If the business operates from borrowed or rented premises, the owner of the business
  shall be paid six months loss of net earnings or twelve months loss of net earnings if
  he/she sets up the business or starts a new business at the resettlement site or at
  another site in the same municipality. The owner shall also be paid all transitional
  costs, including packing and transport of equipment and stock, legal fees, taxes, and
  so on, and/or shall be given assistance and logistic support to set up a new business.

People affected by loss of employment

  People that lose their employment as a result of the acquisition or closure of their
  places of work shall be given the equivalent of at least six months salary (based on
  average earnings over the year prior to closure of the employer’s business). A one-
  time payment of Euro 1,000 will be given to assist with skills training or job search
  expenses to people in regular full time employment and in regular part time
  employment. The project will pay any other redundancy payments required by law,
  including payments determined by length of service and/or other factors.



Transitional costs

  “Transitional costs” are the costs associated with the move from the original site to
  another site as well as loss of earnings and/or subsistence benefits. It includes all the
  legal fees, surveys and registration fees needed to transfer ownership and acquire a
  new property, as well as the costs of packing and transporting the affected
  household’s personal effects, equipment and livestock. It shall also cover any damage
  to personal effects and goods during resettlement.

  In the event of a delay in availability of Resettlement Housing the Project Company
  will provide rental accommodation and subsistence as required.

Vulnerable People


  The baseline socio-economic survey for each RAP will identify vulnerable
  households, such as single mothers, widows and widowers, disabled people, or those
  living in extreme poverty. The project company during resettlement will assess these
  households in the context of available formal and informal safety nets and allocate
  resources in the RAP to assist them with securing adequate shelter and services.




                                         15
Eligibility Criteria
    Cut-off dates

      The date of the definitive census and asset survey of population carried out for
      preparation of the RAP shall be used as the cut-off date for eligibility for resettlement
      benefits. Once a definitive census of the affected households has been carried out for
      an area that will be resettled, no new entrants will be eligible for compensation. A
      review procedure shall be set up to determine the situation of any people that claim to
      have been missed by the census. Census information shall be shared with Government
      and the local Municipal Authorities and they will be jointly responsible for ensuring
      the affected area is not invaded by squatters seeking resettlement benefits.

    The household

      The term “the household” is considered each family or other community of persons,
      who declare that they are living together and jointly distribute their income to meet
      basic living needs.

    Viability of remaining areas in Lignite Power Project implementation

     At present KEK defines a property as partially affected if the remaining area covers
     more than 14 are – that is to say, 0.14 of a hectare (one are is 10m x 10m). However,
     in practice few properties are classified as partially affected. A more practical
     definition that could be adopted is to offer the affected parties the option of
     compensation the whole of their property if:



            any part of the structure of the house, farm or business is affected;


            more than 25% of the total property needs to be acquired;


            the remaining area is less than 0.5 of a hectare;


            the property is left without viable road access or loses access to any other
             critical asset, such as water or electricity supply; or


            the owner can demonstrate that the remaining property is no longer viable for
             the use to which it was previously put. In this case the owner would have to
             demonstrate that the remaining area is no longer viable.

      In any of these cases the original owner shall have the right to keep the remaining area
      if he/she so wishes.




                                             16
Valuation of Land and Assets
   Principles of valuation

     Land and all other affected assets shall be compensated pursuant to the criteria of this
     RPF. This means all buildings, outbuildings, fences and other structures, trees,
     permanent crops and improvements including pasture and standing crops, shall be
     valued at the cost needed to replace them, regardless of their condition at the time of
     valuation. The valuation of fruit trees and permanent crops shall take into account the
     value of the harvests that will be lost. The value of farmland should be assessed on the
     basis of the classification of land types presently applied by KEK but price shall be
     based on the prices paid in actual land transactions in the same municipality and
     neighboring municipalities. It is important to ensure that the valuation is based on real
     land transactions. In addition landowners, homeowners and business owners shall be
     compensated for all transitional costs.

   Special Procedures for Lignite Power Project

     The Project Company shall be responsible for implementation of the procedures,
     which shall be defined in more detail in the RAP.

     At a minimum, the Project Company shall start by making contact with the affected
     parties. In the initial stages this shall involve following up on contacts already
     established by MESP/Project Hade and KEK but will require a new, definitive census.
     Each subsequent phase of the mining project shall require a new census to be carried
     out as part of the preparation of each RAP. If an affected party agrees, the Project
     Company shall then carry out a full survey the affected person or household’s
     property and assets and will assess: i) whether the property should be classified as
     fully or partially affected, and ii) the value of the land and assets in the affected area
     or property, depending on whether it were classified as partially or totally affected.

     The initial valuation shall be itemized, following existing KEK procedures,
     distinguishing the value of the land and the value of each affected asset: houses,
     barns, fences, trees and permanent crops, standing crops, and so on. This detailed
     estimate shall be shared with the affected party, the Government and the relevant
     Municipality. If the affected household accepts the valuation, the Project Company
     shall request approval of the RAP.

     If the affected party does not accept the valuation or believes assets have been missed
     or undervalued, and cannot reach an agreement on valuation through this
     Resettlement Policy Framework, the affected party can make an appeal at the
     Independent Grievance Commission for review of claims. If the party is not satisfied
     by Commission decision, the valuation for that particular immovable property will not
     be subject of this framework and the expropriation procedure will commence in
     accordance with the expropriation procedures and legal terms based on the law on
     expropriation of immovable property.

     The Project Company shall be responsible for all the costs associated with
     implementation of the Resettlement Plan, including the costs of surveying, valuation,
     searches of the land registry, preparing and providing the space for relocation, any
     transitional costs, including delay in availability of resettlement housing and so on.


                                            17
  The Project Company will be responsible for providing compensation for any
  reasonable delay and such delays will be specified in RAP.

Special Procedures for Lignite Power Project and Public Consultations

  A series of public consultations have already been carried out as part of the
  preparation of the SESA. The Project Company, will carry out public consultations in
  the affected area. The objective of further public consultations shall be to explain the
  principles of the RPF and develop the RAP.

  One of the aims of the consultations should be to establish effective channels of
  communication between the affected families, the local and national authorities and
  the Project Company. This might include:

         One or more negotiating committees comprising representatives from the
          villages affected by each stage of the mining and power project, which would
          help to develop the details of the resettlement plan, monitor its
          implementation, resolve disputes over eligibility for benefits and
          compensation, and perhaps negotiate the compensation measures for local
          infrastructure (for instance mosques, churches or cemeteries). The members of
          the committee would be elected by all the adults living in the affected villages.

  The details of the criteria, options and procedures from the resettlement plan should
  be widely publicized. RAP will be open for one or more public consultations for 30
  day term. This would involve printing booklets, radio shows and perhaps television.




                                         18
Timetable and Budget
   Integrated Timetable and Budget

     A detailed timetable for implementation of a resettlement program shall be developed
     as part of each RAP. It shall be developed in close cooperation with the project
     planners, taking into account the proposed timing of the different phases of
     completion.

   Estimated Timetable and Budget

     The timetable and estimated budget for the Lignite Power Project is being developed
     in close cooperation with the mine planners, taking into account the proposed timing
     of the different phases of expansion of the Sibovc field. The most critical issue at this
     stage is preparation of the RAP for the first phase of the Sibovc mine.




                                            19
Annex A: Outline of a Resettlement Action Plan

       1. Introduction

             Name and address of requesting body

             Location of the project (with detailed maps)

             Description and history of the project and associated works

             Analysis of alternatives for each component (mine, transport, access
              roads/railway, power plant, ash-dump or ash-pond, etc) showing that the
              alternatives have been chosen to minimize resettlement, but without
              jeopardizing public safety

             Institutions involved in the project (areas of responsibility)

             Participation of local agencies, organizations of affected people

             Present status of the project

             Outstanding issues



       2. Baseline Socioeconomic Studies and Definitions

             The areas directly and indirectly affected by the project and associated works
              including definition of the safety zones between the works and nearest
              populations

             Accurate information on the people directly affected by category: loss of land
              and housing (owners/tenants), loss of housing (owners/tenants), loss of land
              (owners/tenants, sharecroppers, others), other loss of income (retail outlets,
              small enterprises, etc), other affected groups. This should be summarized in
              tables

             Key definitions: cut-off dates; viability of partially affected areas; the
              definition of the household; criteria used to define eligibility for different
              types of resettlement benefits

             Identification of any vulnerable groups (internally displaced people or
              refugees, ethnic groups, minorities, landless laborers, women head of
              household, etc.)

             Land tenure of affected population (private owners, land in public ownership,
              communal or village landholdings, common land, tenants, sharecroppers, etc.
              – identify any issues that may affect rights to land or housing, for example,
              irregular transactions or inheritance, unpaid taxes, properties that have been
              abandoned during the war – include consideration of the rights of women
              household heads and women living in common-law unions)



                                              20
     Agricultural production, livestock other on-farm income

     Any common productive assets that may be affected (communal pasture,
      forest used for collecting firewood, rivers and lakes used for fishing, etc.)

     Other economic activities – any local employment that may be affected

     Estimated levels of income and expenditure (including average costs for basic
      services: water, sewerage, electricity, and local taxes)

     Social and transport infrastructure (schools, health posts and health centers,
      mosques, churches, cemeteries, access roads, bridges, etc)



3. The Legal and Institutional Framework

     Legal Basis, Scope and Procedures for Land Acquisition

     Responsibility of project sponsors

     Role of government and local authorities in preparation and implementation of
      the resettlement plan

     Responsibility for paying compensation and resettlement

     Land and property valuation & compensation

     Mechanisms for resolving disputes and problems over land or house titles

     Expropriating authority and approval procedures

     Communication and coordination with local authorities, NGOs and
      organizations of affected people

     Procedures for managing complaints and arbitration

     Responsibility for monitoring and evaluation



4. Compensation and Rehabilitation

     Eligibility criteria for compensation (“cut-off dates”, informal and illegal
      titles, long-term tenants and other occupants)

     Compensation options for loss of land (total loss, loss of viable holdings,
      partial loss, restrictions on use, such as reservoir edges, transmission lines)

     Compensation options for loss of housing (owners, tenants, occupants, others)




                                     21
         Detailed description of the proposed land for land and cash compensation,
          including choices and factors that may affect choices and any potential
          problems such as debts, mortgages or unpaid land taxes

         Detailed description of the proposed housing and service solutions, with an
          analysis of the likely preferred choices and any potential problems (costs of
          service provision, maintenance, taxes, style of housing)

         Procedures, methodology and responsibility for the valuation of land, property
          and other assets procedures for paying compensation and timing for
          compensation

         Dispute settlement procedures

         Compensation for temporary loss of income and subsistence crops for farms,
          retail outlets and other businesses (valuation, compensation, timing, dispute
          resolution)

         Procedures, responsibility for the valuation of loss of income, compensation,
          timing, and dispute settlement

         Programs for training and institutional development

         Compensation for loss of social and/or transport infrastructure and items of
          social and/or cultural heritage (mosques, churches, cemeteries, war memorials,
          etc.)

         Impact of affected families on “host” populations, and measures to avoid any
          potential conflicts

         Facilities to accommodate demand from influx of construction workers (health
          services, schooling, etc)



5. Transport and Other Transitional Issues

       Arrangements to move affected households to new sites (transport, temporary
        accommodation, transport of furniture, equipment, livestock etc)

       Timing of move, particularly in relation to agricultural cycle and school year



6. Environmental Mitigation

    This refers to the environmental impacts of the resettlement program, and not the
    impacts of the project that is causing the resettlement, and includes:

         Impacts of the housing program, including impacts associated with
          construction and longer term impacts, particularly on sources and use of water,
          sewage, street drainage, disposal of solid waste


                                          22
         Potential impact of resettled population on local services (health, schooling)

         Impact of resettled population on local population (especially any vulnerable
          groups)

         Impacts of natural resources, such as firewood collection, fisheries, etc

         Impact of income restoration projects: agricultural and livestock programs
          (deforestation, potential for soil erosion, use of agro-chemicals); small
          industries (water use, potential for contamination)

         Environmental management and education plan for the resettlement program

         Any plans to provide housing, infrastructure or social services to members of
          the host population affected by the resettlement villages



7. Public Consultation and Grievance Procedures

         Consultation, public disclosure and social communication procedures

         Institutional responsibility for consultation and communication

         Description of the consultations carried out to prepare the resettlement plan
          and timetable for future activities

         Parties involved in public consultation

         Measures to ensure vulnerable groups are fully consulted

         Review, summary and disclosure of results of consultations and how these are
          integrated into the resettlement planning

         Proposed mechanisms for the registration and resolution of grievances



8. Schedule and Responsibilities for Implementation of the Resettlement Plan

       Timing of baseline studies and census, evaluation of land/property/crops/loss of
        earning, payment of compensation, resettlement, rehabilitation, reconstruction of
        social infrastructure etc (this should be prepared as a gantt chart and should be
        related to the timing of the civil works and associated activities).

       Chart showing institutional responsibilities for each component of the
        resettlement plan, critical path and timing




                                         23
9. Costs

     Estimated cost for each component and sub-component of the resettlement
      plan (land acquisition and compensation, housing, social infrastructure,
      economic rehabilitation, training)

     Estimated cost for each component, broken down by expected month/year of
      disbursement

     Estimated cost for each component and sub-component, broken down by
      institution responsible and expected month/year

     Overheads, by institution, and by month/year (staff costs, office and running
      costs, transport)

     Analysis of the costs of compensation and resettlement as a proportion of
      overall project costs



10. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)

     Responsibilities for M&E

     Reporting procedures

     Indicators for M&E (housing/services, economic indicators, health, schooling)

     “Expert panel” option, to review and advice in specific issues

     Ex-post evaluation




                                    24
