                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2363



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IDA-H2540 IDA-H3180)



                                       ON A

                                      GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.2 MILLION
                      (US$ 10.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO

                                     KOSOVO

                                      FOR A

            LIGNITE POWER TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT



                               December 10, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective
                           September 21, 2012)
                         Currency Unit = Euro (€)
                             €1.00=US$1.30
                           SDR 1.00=US$1.54
                       GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 - December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CLRP    Clean Up and Land Reclamation Project
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
CSO     Civil Society Organization
EA      Environmental Assessment
EAR     European Agency for Reconstruction
EC      European Commission
ECSEE   Energy Community of South East Europe
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
EIR     Extractive Industries Review
ERO     Energy Regulatory Office
ESSF    Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework
ESTAP   Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project
EU      European Union
FMR     Financial Management Report
GIS     Generation Investment Study (for South East Europe)
GoK     Government of Kosovo
HPP     Hydro Power Plant
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICMM    Independent Commission for Mines and Minerals
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
IFC     International Finance Corporation
IFI     International Financial Institution
ISN     Interim Strategy Note
KEDS    Kosovo Electricity Distribution System
KEK     Korporata Energjetike e Kosovës (Kosovo Electric Power Company)
KEM     Kosovo Economic Memorandum
KfW     Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
KRPP    Kosovo e Re (New Kosovo) Power Project
LPTAP   Lignite Power Technical Assistance Project
MoE     Ministry of Economy
MED     Ministry of
MEM     Ministry of Energy and Mining
MESP    Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning
MIGA    Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MoF     Ministry of Finance
PISG    Provisional Institutions of Self-Government
PO      Project Office
PPA     Power Purchase Agreement
PRG     Partial Risk Guarantee
PSC     Project Steering Committee
QER     Quality at Entry Review
RAP     Resettlement Action Plan
RFP     Request for Proposals
SESA    Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment
SFDCC   Strategic Framework for Development and Climate Change
TA      Technical Assistance
UNMIK   United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
USAID   United States Agency for International Development




                    Vice President: Philippe Le Houerou
                  Country Director: Jane Armitage
                   Sector Manager: Ranjit Lamech
              Project Team Leader: Scott Sinclair
                                     Mohinder Gulati (Aug-Dec 2011)
                 ICR Team Leader: Mohinder Gulati
              ICR Primary Author: Henk Busz
                                            KOSOVO
                             Lignite Power Technical Assistance Project



                                                     CONTENTS




A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................. viii
H. Restructuring (if any) .............................................................................................. viii
I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. ix

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 14
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 24

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 29
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 32
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 33
Annex 7. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report .......................................... 34
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 39
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 40
Map: IBRD 37048R
A. Basic Information
                                                                                Lignite Power Technical
Country:                Kosovo                    Project Name:
                                                                                Assistance Project
Project ID:             P097635                   L/C/TF Number(s):             IDA-H2540,IDA-H3180
ICR Date:               08/30/2012                ICR Type:                     Core ICR
                                                                                UN INTERIM ADMN.
Lending Instrument:     TAL                       Borrower:
                                                                                MISSION IN KOSOVO
                        XDR 5.80M plus
Original Total
                        Additional Financing      Disbursed Amount:             XDR 5.81M
Commitment:
                        XDR 1.4 M
Revised Amount:         XDR 5.81M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Energy and Mining, Provisional Institutions of Self –
Government (PISG), succeeded by Ministry of Economic Development, Republic of Kosovo
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: European Agency for Reconstruction, USAID

B. Key Dates
                                                                                       Revised / Actual
      Process               Date               Process            Original Date
                                                                                           Date(s)
Concept Review:         09/27/2005     Effectiveness:               03/06/2007             03/06/2007
Appraisal:              06/19/2006     Restructuring(s):                                   11/01/2009
Approval:               10/12/2006     Mid-term Review:             06/30/2008             06/26/2009
                                       Closing:                     12/31/2009             12/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                             Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      High
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                    Ratings              Borrower                        Ratings
Quality at Entry:        Satisfactory            Government:                    Moderately Unsatisfactory
                                                 Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                                 Moderately Satisfactory
                                                 Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                     Overall Borrower
                         Moderately Satisfactory                                Moderately Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                     Performance:




                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     68
Mining and other extractive                                           16
Power                                                                 16


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Environmental policies and institutions                               16
Infrastructure services for private sector development                33
Other social development                                              17
Regional integration                                                  17
Regulation and competition policy                                     17

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Jane Armitage                        Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Ranjit J. Lamech                     Peter D. Thomson
Project Team Leader:       Mohinder P. Gulati                   Vardarajan Atur
ICR Team Leader:           Mohinder P. Gulati
ICR Primary Author:        Hinderikus Busz


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives are to: (a) help PISG strengthen the enabling policy, legal and regulatory
frameworks conducive to new investments in the energy sector; and (b) assist PISG to
attract qualified private investors to develop lignite mines and build new capacity for

                                                ii
lignite thermal power generation, guided by high standards of environmental and social
sustainability.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                 Original Target        Formally         Actual Value
                                                  Values (from          Revised           Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                    approval             Target          Completion or
                                                  documents)             Values          Target Years
                  Various policy, legal and regulatory instruments, consistent with international good
Indicator 1 :
                  practice, adopted and used by the PISG
                                                New legislation/
                                                regulatory
                                                instruments; new
                                                SESA regulations
                  Previous analyses (under      and Resettlement                       All activities were
Value             ESTAP III) revealed           Policy Framework;                      completed except
quantitative or   numerous gaps in the          SESA;                NA                preparation of
Qualitative)      existing legal and regulatory Environmental                          environmental
                  framework                     baseline database;                     baseline data.
                                                used by Transaction
                                                Advisor in
                                                negotiations with
                                                investors
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Selection of project sponsor and negotiation leading to financial closing on mine and
Indicator 2 :
                  power plant investment(s)
                                                                                       Selection of
                                                                                       shortlisted investors
                                                                                       started in 2006 was
                  Three initial steps to attract
                                                                                       reviewed and
                  new investment were
                                                                                       accepted as
                  underway: (i) emergency        Selection of project
                                                                                       satisfactory in August
                  initiation of development of sponsor and
Value                                                                                  2007. Upon
                  Sibovc SW Mine; (ii) EAR- negotiation leading
quantitative or                                                       NA               withdrawal of some
                  funded Investment Options to final close of
Qualitative)                                                                           investors due to
                  Review; & (iii) issuance in mine and power
                                                                                       global financial
                  July/Aug. 2006 of a REI for plant investments.
                                                                                       crisis, the process was
                  prospective investors in the
                                                                                       re-launched and a
                  Sibovc Mine.
                                                                                       new short-list
                                                                                       prepared in March
                                                                                       2010.
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

                                                     iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                   Original Target                          Actual Value
                                                                         Formally
                                                    Values (from                            Achieved at
    Indicator            Baseline Value                               Revised Target
                                                      approval                             Completion or
                                                                          Values
                                                     documents)                            Target Years
                  Component 1, subcomponent 1: Preparation and presentation to the Assembly of various
Indicator 1 :
                  policy, legal and regulatory instruments, consistent with good international practice.
                                                                                       - Law on
                                                                                         Environmental
                                                                                         Strategic
                                                                                         Assessment was
                                                                                         promulgated by the
                                                                                         President on March
                                                                                         19, 2009.
                                                                                       - Law on Public
                                                                                         Private Partnerships
                                                                                         and Concessions
                                                                                         promulgated by the
                                                Completion of                            President on July
                                                additional legal/                        15, 2009.
                                                regulatory work in                     - Resettlement Policy
                  Gaps were identified in the
                                                regard to a new                          Framework (RPF)
                  existing legislative
Value                                           structure for the                        was adopted by the
                  framework. There were no
(quantitative                                   electricity sector of                    Government on
                  regulatory instruments
or Qualitative)                                 Kosovo, compliant                        July 2011.
                  consistent with good
                                                with Kosovo's                          - Draft RFP was
                  international practice.
                                                obligations under the                    issued
                                                Energy Community                       - A set of draft
                                                Treaty.                                  Project Agreements
                                                                                         accompanying
                                                                                         Draft RFP were
                                                                                         prepared
                                                                                       - Kosovo Market
                                                                                         Model was
                                                                                         developed
                                                                                       - New regulation on
                                                                                         tariff (generation,
                                                                                         transmission,
                                                                                         distribution, retail)
                                                                                         was prepared.
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Safeguards Advice -SESA, Sector Specific EIA Handbook, TOR for Environmental
Indicator 2 :     Impact Assessment, Social Assessment and Resettlement Action Plan for new
                  investments.
                                             Preparation of                      - Final SESA report
                  There was no SESA or EIA SESA,                                   was delivered in
Value
                  Handbook, nor EIA, Social Preparation of the                     December 2008
(quantitative                                                    NA
                  Assessment or Resettlement specified TORs,                     - ToRs for
or Qualitative)
                  Action Plan TORs.          Preparation of the                    Environmental
                                             EIA Handbook,                         Assessment were

                                                     iv
                                              MESP staff                                finalized in
                                              trained in env. and                       December 2008
                                              inv.                                  -   ToRs for
                                              resettlement                              Resettlement
                                              procedures.                               Action Plans
                                                                                        finalized in
                                                                                        December 2008
                                                                                    -   ToRs for Social
                                                                                        Assessments
                                                                                        finalized in
                                                                                        December 2008
                                                                                    -   Final draft of the
                                                                                        New Mining field
                                                                                        development plan
                                                                                    -   Resettlement Policy
                                                                                        Framework
                                                                                        approved in July
                                                                                        2011
                                                                                    -   Resettlement
                                                                                        Action Plan for a
                                                                                        part of Hade village
                                                                                        was finalized in
                                                                                        December 2011
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Safeguards Advice - Baseline environmental monitoring and data collection and
Indicator 3 :
                  development of an environmental monitoring and data registration and reporting system.
                                                                                   - Contract for air
                                                                                     quality monitoring
                                                                                     equipment has been
                                              Completion of                          signed in August
                                              environmental                          2012 and the
                                              baseline database.                     equipment is
Value
                  No such baseline data       Completion of                          expected to be
(quantitative                                                     NA
                  existed.                    environmental                          installed and online
or Qualitative)
                                              monitoring and data                    monitoring to
                                              registration and                       commence in
                                              reporting system.                      December 2012.
                                                                                   - Soil and water
                                                                                     quality monitoring
                                                                                     specialist assigned.
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Component 2: Mine and Power Plant Analyses
Indicator 4 :
                  - Studies and ongoing support for renewable energy, cogeneration and energy efficiency.
                                                                                    - Options Analysis
                  Only preliminary feasibility Studies and ongoing
                                                                                    Study
Value             studies existed and only     support for
                                                                                    - Power Market
(quantitative     limited work was done to     renewable energy, NA
                                                                                      Review
or Qualitative)   date in regard to renewable cogeneration and
                                                                                    - Transmission
                  and energy efficiency.       energy efficiency.
                                                                                      System Impact

                                                    v
                                                                                    Assessment
                                                                                  - New power plant
                                                                                    sitting and technical
                                                                                    analysis
                                                                                  - Carbon Market
                                                                                    Study
                                                                                  - Site selection
                                                                                    Economic and
                                                                                    Financial Analysis
                                                                                  - The HPP Zhur Pre-
                                                                                    Feasibility Study,
                                                                                    including the
                                                                                    preparation of pre-
                                                                                    EIA and pre-SIA
                                                                                  - Water Supply from
                                                                                    the Iber-Lepenc
                                                                                    Hydro System for
                                                                                    the proposed
                                                                                    Kosovo C Power
                                                                                    Plant Pre-
                                                                                    Feasibility Study
                                                                                  - Water security for
                                                                                    central Kosovo
                                                                                    (Water Resources,
                                                                                    Water demand and
                                                                                    water saving)
                                                                                    Feasibility Study
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Component 3: Capacity Building and Communiciations - Establishment of LPTAP
Indicator 5 :     Project Office and Project Steering Committee, training MEM, ERO & ICMM in major
                  project devt. & MEM in communications.
                                                                                 The Project Office
                                                                                 managed the
                                                                                 solicitation of private
                                                                                 investors, and
                                                                                 coordinated various
                                                                                 Government
                                               Ongoing effective
                                                                                 institutions in the
                                               operation of both the
                                                                                 decision-making
                                               Project Office and
                                                                                 process (through the
                  The Project Office and       the Project Steering
                                                                                 PSC) to approve a
Value             Project Steering Committee Committee; staff
                                                                                 very complex set of
(quantitative     were established and MEM, trained in major         NA
                                                                                 legal documents and
or Qualitative)   ERO, and ICMM had only project development
                                                                                 the draft RFP. Project
                  limited project experience. & visible
                                                                                 office staff was
                                               improvement in
                                                                                 trained in major
                                               Communications by
                                                                                 project development
                                               MEM.
                                                                                 and there has been
                                                                                 visible improvement
                                                                                 in communications by
                                                                                 MEM. Large number
                                                                                 of Government
                                                                                 officials has gone


                                                   vi
                                                                                  through learning-by-
                                                                                  doing while
                                                                                  participating in
                                                                                  intense deliberations
                                                                                  on the preparation of
                                                                                  the transaction.
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Component 4: Transaction Advice – Assistance to the Project Office in preparing for a
Indicator 6 :
                  bidding process and in negotiations with strategic investors.
                                                                                   - Draft RFP
                                                                                   - A set of draft
                                                                                     Project Agreements
                                                                                     accompanying
                                                                                     Draft RFP were
                                                                                     prepared
                                                                                   - Sibovc Mine Asset
                                                                                     Valuation and
                                                                                     Government
                                                                                     Interest Scenarios
                                                                                   - Revised
                                                                                     Transitional Market
                                                                                     Model Concept
                                                                                     Paper for the
                                               Testing of investor                   Kosovo Electricity
                                               interest levels and                   Sector
                                               concerns;                           - Unit sizing report
                                               preparation of draft                - Capital cost
Value                                          agreements and legal                  estimates
                  No transaction support
(quantitative                                  opinions for the       NA           - Valuation of
                  mechanisms were in place.
or Qualitative)                                mine and power                        Kosovo B
                                               plant transactions;                 - PSC meeting:
                                               advice on bidding                     Recommendations
                                               and on the conduct                    for short-listing
                                               of negotiations.                      bidders from
                                                                                     expression of
                                                                                     interest submitted
                                                                                   - Phase One Report:
                                                                                     Development of
                                                                                     Financial Model
                                                                                   - Phase One Report:
                                                                                     Decision Support
                                                                                     Document
                                                                                   - Working
                                                                                     Framework
                                                                                     Document
                                                                                   - Review of pre-
                                                                                     qualification of
                                                                                     investors
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

                                                  vii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                          Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                       IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                      (USD millions)
  1    05/20/2007      Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                    0.00
  2    05/26/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              0.00
  3    06/26/2008   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              1.90
  4    06/26/2009   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              3.37
  5    03/24/2010       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     5.76
                                                 Moderately
  6    04/26/2011       Satisfactory                                            8.52
                                               Unsatisfactory
                                                 Moderately
  7    12/26/2011   Moderately Satisfactory                                     8.84
                                               Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                      On declaration of independence
                                                     by Kosovo, Government of
                                                     Kosovo assumed all IDA Grants
                                                     from “Provisional Institutions of
 11/01/2009               S       S           3.59
                                                     Self-Government?. In Finance
                                                     Agreement, the term “PISG?
                                                     was replaced by “Government
                                                     of Kosovo?.




                                         viii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Widespread poverty. Kosovo emerged from the Balkan conflicts and its own 1999
conflict with Serbia as one of the poorest countries in Europe. Despite major external aid
flows and a good post-conflict economic recovery, poverty remained widespread. In
2005 out of a population of about 1.8 million, almost 37% were living below the poverty
line; half of the population was below 24 years of age; and about 40% of the population
was unemployed – significantly higher than in any other Balkan country. 1 Kosovo’s
2005 GDP per capita was estimated at €1,217, one of the lowest in Central and
Southeastern Europe.       Of its two main resources, agriculture and lignite, only its
abundant lignite could be developed because of significant unresolved land ownership
issues in agriculture.

Multiple layers of Government. After the 1999 conflict ended, Kosovo was placed under
the administration of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
(UNMIK). In 2001, a Constitutional Framework was agreed, establishing the Provisional
Institutions of Self-Government (PISG). UNMIK did retain certain reserve powers and
final legal authority, including over the energy and mining sectors. Within the PISG, a
new Ministry of Energy and Mining (MEM) was established in December 2004, with
responsibility for defining policies and development strategies for the energy and mining
sectors. All major Government departments had substantial numbers of donor-funded
expatriate advisors in critical positions, effectively constituting another layer of
government within the PISG. This three-way shared governance arrangement resulted in
a challenging environment for the energy and mining sectors – and for LPTAP.

Lignite power only. Kosovo’s main sources of energy were and are domestic lignite for
power generation, imported petroleum products for the transport sector, and heavy fuel
oil for three relatively small district heating systems. Renewable energy (hydropower –
43 MW) provides only 2% of electric power generation. Fuel wood, electricity, coal and,
to a small extent, liquid propane gas are the main fuels used for heating in the residential
sector. Kosovo does not have a natural gas infrastructure and has no access to it. The
Kosovo energy sector was and is, therefore, totally dominated by the lignite-fired electric
power sector. The generation, distribution and lignite mining assets are operated by the
state-owned Kosovo Electric Power Corporation (Korporata Energjetike e Kosovës -
KEK) 2. KEK was poorly managed and operated two heavily polluting power generating
units, Kosovo A (800 MW, with the two oldest units dating from 1962-64 and the three
most recent from 1970-75) and Kosovo B (678 MW, with two units of 339 MW each


1
  Although by 2011 Kosovo’s GDP per capita had increased to €2,600, overall unemployment had risen to 45% while
there was a 76% youth unemployment level.

2
 Since 2006 the transmission assets are operated by the Kosovo Transmission System and Market Operator (KOSTT).
Both KEK and KOSTT became joint stock companies in 2006.


                                                       1
dating from 1983-1984). Both plants were having major technical problems due to lack
of funds for maintenance. On average, therefore, only about half of nameplate capacity
was actually available.

Heavy losses and frequent outages. In 2005, technical losses on transmission and
distribution were 18% and commercial losses (theft) about 33% of energy delivered. Of
the remaining approximately 50% of electricity delivered and billed, 68% was actually
paid. In short: only about one-third of all electricity delivered to the networks was paid
for. The lack of payment discipline implied by this high level of commercial losses was
undoubtedly partly responsible for the high 9% per annum growth rate in demand for
electricity. 3 Due to the poor state of the generating and distribution equipment, outages
and rolling blackouts averaged about 4 hours per day in 2005, while winter peak demand
due to the use of power for heating had to be met -- to the extent possible -- through high-
priced imports, mostly via a 400 kV transmission line operated by the Transmission
System Operator of Serbia. These power imports, and mining and other investment
expenditures of KEK, were being paid for by the Kosovo Consolidated Budget,
amounting on average to €100 million per annum during 1999-2008, equivalent to about
4% of GDP. The highly unreliable electricity supply was consistently cited as one of the
main obstacles to growth. 4

Energy Community member. Through UNMIK, Kosovo is a signatory of the Athens
Memorandum (2003) and subsequently of the Athens Treaty (2006), which established
the Southeast European regional energy market, now called the Energy Community.
Kosovo’s key energy resource is its extensive lignite deposits: the Sibovc field alone is
estimated to hold about one billion tonnes of geological reserves. A 2004 regional
review of the energy sector concluded that the development of lignite mining in Kosovo
for power generation was part of the least-cost solution to close the emerging generation
capacity gap in Southeast Europe as a whole. 5 By developing its power sector, Kosovo
could: (i) meet its own demand and improve the quality of its power supply; (ii) supply
the regional market and have a substantial long-term source of income to pay for high
priority domestic programs; and (iii) significantly boost its trade links with Southeast
Europe.

Energy and mining as main sources of growth. The Kosovo Economic Memorandum of
2004 identified the energy and mining sectors as having the medium to longer term
potential to revitalize the economy, especially given large and increasing energy needs
throughout the region and the rebound in global commodity prices. The first Interim


3
  Despite this high growth rate, per capita consumption of electricity in Kosovo was in 2010 still only 2,300 kWh (the
second lowest in the SEE region after Albania) compared to 8,000 kWh in the OECD region and 13,000 kWh in the US.

4
  Investment Climate Assessment (World Bank, 2003). This view prevails to this day: the 2010 Business Environment
and Enterprise Performance Survey (EBRD/World Bank) found that 9 out of 10 firms cited inadequate electricity
supply as a major impediment to doing business in Kosovo.

5
 See Regional Balkans Infrastructure Study - Electricity and Generation Investment Study (EU - December 2004, by
PwC Consortium).

                                                         2
Strategy Note (ISN) for Kosovo for FY06-07, focused on supporting development of new
sources of economic growth for Kosovo and or ensuring macroeconomic stability. The
Strategy’s objective was to lay the foundation for: (i) sustainable development of
Kosovo’s high quality lignite resources and power generation capacity; (ii) associated
environmental and social improvements; and (iii) transparent and fiscally responsible
management of Kosovo’s public finances.

Through LPTAP the Bank intended to play a catalytic role in helping to attract world-
class private strategic investors to develop and utilize Kosovo’s lignite resources in a
transparent, environmentally and socially sustainable and fiscally responsible manner.
To that end, LPTAP would provide technical assistance to develop the legal and
regulatory frameworks, transparent transaction and bidding processes, and environmental
and social safeguards frameworks and plans meeting the highest international standards.
In addition, both the EU and USAID provided support to the energy regulator to develop
secondary legislation as well as tariff/loss models. Together, these measures would
enable Kosovo to complete a private sector transaction with world-class strategic
investors for a €1.2 billion enclave electricity export project (then called Kosovo C or
New Mine/Plant), covering both the power plant as well as development of a new lignite
mine. Even though, with evolving debate on the size and structure of the project, the
assumed share of electricity generation to be sold on the domestic market gradually
increased, Kosovo C was to remain a private sector owned and operated enterprise,
completely separate from KEK and its many problems. With most other major IFIs
unable to lend to Kosovo, only the Bank, with strong support in particular from the EU
through the European Agency for Reconstruction (EAR), was thought to be in a position
to bring such a massive project to a successful conclusion.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The project development objectives were to: (a) help the PISG strengthen the enabling
policy, legal and regulatory frameworks conducive to new investments in the energy
sector; and (b) assist the PISG to attract qualified private investors to develop lignite
mines and build new capacity for lignite thermal power generation, guided by high
standards of environmental and social sustainability. The key indicators were: (a) various
policy, legal and regulatory instruments, consistent with international good practice,
adopted and used by the PISG; and (b) selection of a project sponsor and negotiation
leading to financial closing on mine and power plant investment(s).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The project development objectives and the key indicators were not changed in substance
during project implementation and did not need to be changed, despite a major change in
project scope. The only change made was that on December 11,2009, through Grant
Assumption Agreement, the term “PISG? was replaced by “Government of Kosovo?, as
was done for all other Kosovo projects being implemented at that time,

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
At the time of project preparation, a description of the primary target group was not
required and, therefore, a detailed description of the main beneficiaries was not provided.

                                            3
However, based on project component 3 (Section 1.5), the primary target group was the
Provisional Institutions of Self-Government, in particular the Ministry of Energy and
Mining (MEM) and the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning (MESP), the inter-
ministerial Project Steering Committee (PSC) and the Project Office (PO), as most of the
work was targeted at building their capacity to address energy sector issues. Longer term,
a second major target group was the electricity end-users, since they would benefit from
the more reliable and cleaner electricity supply to be provided by Kosovo C. Although
the project was expanded in scope at the end of 2009, these beneficiary groups remained
unchanged, save for the nominal transition from the PISG to the Republic of Kosovo,
which came into existence on June 15, 2008.

1.5 Original Components
The Project consisted of four components, namely:

Component 1: Sector Policy, Legal, Regulatory and Safeguards Advice, consisting of
two subcomponents:

Subcomponent 1 - Sector Policy, Legal and Regulatory Advice: This had two main
purposes. First, the consultants would help in preparing the key legislation, including any
required amendments that would facilitate the proposed New Mine/Plant transaction,
building on the IPA-Norton Rose diagnostics report 6 on policy, legal and regulatory
frameworks. For this, the consultants would work closely with relevant ministries to
develop and help adopt the final legislative and regulatory framework that would serve as
a practical guide for environmental and social assessment, and for expropriation and
involuntary resettlement activities in Kosovo, and drafting legislation and regulations
needed to ensure that future infrastructure development meets international standards.
This would include a draft regulation on Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment
(SESA), and the preparation of a Resettlement Policy Framework consistent with World
Bank OP/BP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement as well as draft legislation on land
expropriation, and resettlement. Second, the consultants would help support the
transaction through to financial closing by preparing legal and contract documents for the
bid solicitation package, preparing legal opinions, etc. In regard to the latter activity, the
consultants would work closely with the Transaction Advisor (Component 4) and assist
in the tendering, evaluation and negotiations with the successful bidder and in financial
closings for the New Mine/Plant.

Subcomponent 2 - Safeguards Framework. This had three main purposes. First, the
consultants would prepare a Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment (SESA)
specific to energy sector development, which would identify environmental and social
issues of projected developments in the power generation and related lignite mining
sectors. The SESA would be the overarching environmental and social assessment of
sector developments, and would help in identifying the expected impacts of specific
investments proposed for bidding (such as the proposed New Mine/Plant) and develop


6
 Review of the Policy, Legal, Regulatory and Institutional Framework for Private Sector participation in the Energy
Sector in Kosovo (March 2005 by IPA Energy Consulting and Norton Rose, under ESTAP-II, see Section 2.1).

                                                        4
the terms of reference for the Environmental Impact Assessment, the Social Assessment
and the Resettlement Action Plan to be followed by the selected investor for specific
mitigation and other measures. The SESA would provide inputs to legal consultants for
the development of the Resettlement Policy Framework under subcomponent 1. Second,
the consultants would prepare an environmental baseline monitoring toolkit, collect field
data and compile the environmental baseline data to facilitate due diligence and
preparation of bids. Third, the consultants would outline the needs for institutional
strengthening and capacity building to assess, monitor and regulate the environmental
impacts of mining and power generation, and provide training to staff in relevant
ministries. The consultants would also prepare a procedures handbook and other relevant
manuals for the MESP in this regard.

Component 2: Mine and Power Plant Analyses: Various studies had already been
completed on mine and power plants in Kosovo, focusing on technical, environmental,
financial, water supply and related aspects, with a view to help long-term development of
the sector and facilitate investment considerations. However, there was a need to
synthesize these analyses and recommendations to help finalize the investment package
and the bidding process. Also, Kosovo needed to develop strategies to promote
renewable energy and energy efficiency. Accordingly, this component comprised the
following three subcomponents (the first two were financed by the EU and the third by
IDA):

Subcomponent 1 – Investment Options Review: This had two main purposes. First, it
would examine feasible alternatives for combining existing and new mine and power
plant assets, and help the Government finalize the investment package to be offered for
bidding. The key objective was to define options for private investments in the
development of the Sibovc SW Mine so as to assure continuing supply of fuel for KEK’s
existing power plants from 2009-10 onwards when the Mirash and Bardh mines were
expected to be exhausted. The consultants would review the legal, financial and structural
(e.g. public-private partnerships) issues of combining KEK’s assets (the Sibovc SW Mine
and the Kosovo A and B power plants) with a new mine and power plant (additional
investments in the Sibovc Lignite Field and in a new power plant, Kosovo C), in order to
develop alternative New Mine/Plant investment packages. The consultants would also
conduct a market test to support their recommendations in regard to the alternative
packages. The consultants would conduct a workshop in Prishtina to facilitate decision-
making by the Government as to the preferred New Mine/Plant investment package. In
addition, the recommendations of the review, and the Government’s decision in response
to the review, would help the Transaction Advisor (Component 4) in developing a
transaction strategy.

Subcomponent 2 – New Power Plant Development and Technical Analysis. This had
two main purposes. First, this would complement the various previous studies on mine
and power plants and compile adequate information and analysis for bidders so that they
could carry out due diligence in a timely and efficient manner. It would also help the
Transaction Advisor to prepare the bidding documents. Second, this would develop a
knowledge base for decision-makers in Kosovo to solicit, evaluate, and negotiate

                                            5
proposals for private development of the Sibovc Lignite Field in an economic and
efficient manner. The consultants would examine the domestic and regional (ECSEE)
electricity markets, the potential off-take opportunities, the adequacy of the transmission
system and the optimal unit and plant size options. The transmission system assessment
would determine the requirements for interconnecting the new power plant to the
transmission system, including conceptual designs and cost estimates. Based on the
previous studies, the consultants would evaluate necessary siting factors in order to
determine the preferred site for the new power plant, taking into account the
environmental and social aspects; in this regard, the consultants would work closely with
the Safeguards consultants. The consultants would review technologies for the lignite
power plant, and optimize the power plant design at the selected site, including
supercritical technologies, circulating fluidized bed combustion (CFB) technologies, and
other feasible CO2 mitigation options.

Subcomponent 3 – Renewable Energy, Cogeneration and Energy Efficiency. The
objective of this subcomponent was to help MEM develop policies and strategies to
promote renewable energy, cogeneration and energy efficiency in Kosovo. This
subcomponent would also examine development options for the two candidate
hydropower plants, namely, Zhur (about 300 MW peak capacity) and Ujmani (35 MW).
These hydropower plants offer potential for meeting peak load for Kosovo and the
original design considerations needed to be reviewed to make them economically and
financially viable. The use of carbon credits and similar instruments would also be
explored in examining development options.

Component 3: Capacity Building: Sector administration was at the time shared between
(i) UNMIK, which had responsibility for the Kosovo Energy Regulatory Office (ERO)
and the Kosovo Independent Commission for Mines and Minerals (ICMM), and which
signed, on behalf of Kosovo, the Athens Memorandum of December 2003 and the
ECSEE Treaty of October 2005; and (ii) the PISG, which established the Ministry of
Energy and Mining (MEM) for policy making in December 2004. Many other PISG
ministries were also in their infancy, including the Ministry of Environment and Spatial
Planning (MESP).

This component would support capacity-building for the key ministries and agencies
(including MEM and MESP); for inter-ministerial coordination on the Project Steering
Committee (the entity coordinating the Project); and for the Project Office (the
implementing entity for the Project). In addition, office equipment and vehicles, and
incremental operating costs would be provided to the Project Office as the implementing
entity. The TA would also assist MEM, MESP and the PISG to develop a
communications and outreach strategy with the media and the public, and improve public
consultations.

Component 4: Transaction Advisor: Building on the inputs and considerations from the
previous components, this component would support the PISG in carrying out the
transaction process through to the financial close of the selected investment package.
The Transaction Advisor, working with the legal consultants engaged under Component

                                            6
1, would prepare the necessary documents to undertake a competitive and transparent
bidding and evaluation process, so as to determine a successful bidder for the
development of the proposed New Mine/Plant. The Transaction Advisor would examine
various evaluation criteria for maximizing the economic benefits to Kosovo from the use
of its lignite resources (e.g. taxes and royalties on exported energy), and finalize the bid
evaluation criteria and methodology for the investment package in consultation with the
Government. Accordingly, the Transaction Advisor would develop appropriate criteria
and develop a shortlist of bidders. The Transaction Advisor would then issue a detailed
Request for Proposals (RFP) to short-listed bidders and the preferred bidder would be
selected through a competitive bidding process. The Transaction Advisor would assist
the Government to conclude negotiations with the successful bidder and reach financial
close. 7

1.6 Revised Components
The original project components were not revised nor were the objectives of the
components changed.

1.7 Other significant changes
The project underwent three significant changes: (i) a US$2.0 million additional
financing grant was approved by the Board in June 2007. The bids of the legal and
transaction advisors had come in higher than expected due to international demand for
these services and risk perceptions related to Kosovo. Also, operating expenses of the
PO, including funding of the rental of office space for the implementation unit and its
advisors, were higher than originally anticipated; (ii) in December 2009 the Government
decided to add Kosovo B, which required major rehabilitation, to the KRPP package.
This caused major additional work on the possible market model and the proposed
project agreements; and (iii) in part because of that, the project closing date was extended
from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2011.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The project design incorporated findings from the World Bank’s ESTAP I, II and III
projects (2001-2005), particularly in terms of existing gaps in legal, regulatory,
environmental and safeguards frameworks for major private sector involvement in the
energy sector. The lessons learned from various technical assistance projects, i.e., the
need for ownership by local institutions, preparation of comprehensive terms of reference,
selection of competent consultants, detailed reviews for ensuring the quality of
consultant’s outputs, and comprehensive consultations with local institutions, donors and
other stakeholders, were also taken into account in the Project design. The three-year
project implementation timeframe was believed to be realistic as well, but this turned out
to be overoptimistic.


7
  To address the urgent need for development of the Sibovc Mine, it was anticipated that the Transaction Advisor might
have to help with financial closing on Sibovc prior to finalization of all the documents and financing for other
investment package components. Thus, two financial closings under one transaction process were considered possible.

                                                          7
Project design also benefited from the World Bank Group Management Response to the
Extractive Industries Review. A series of policy, regulatory, and guiding framework
interventions were proposed to adhere to guiding principles that would strengthen
governance and transparency, address local community issues, mitigate environmental
and social risk, protect the rights of people affected by energy sector investments
(especially in mining), and provide for ongoing learning and review of sector
performance in Kosovo.

During project preparation the proposed components of LPTAP received political support
at the highest levels of UNMIK and PISG and were considered high priority by the
authorities and the donors (notably EAR, the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) and Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW)). This is also
reflected in the fact that a Letter of Energy Sector Development Policy was signed by
UNMIK and the PISG (June 19, 2006). The scope of work of the consultants had been
carefully defined to ensure complementarity with the technical assistance being provided
by those donors. Key stakeholders like the Kosovo Trust Agency, MEM, MESP, ERO
and ICMM were represented on the Project Steering Committee. A Quality at Entry
Review (QER) took place on February 17, 2006, which found the quality of the project to
be satisfactory. All significant QER comments were incorporated into the project design
as appropriate.

The project was correctly assessed at appraisal as being high risk overall. Interestingly,
one of the few specific critical risks that were considered “low? was the risk of donor
coordination. Country/political risks, other than institutional capacity constraints, were
not mentioned, as these were believed to be manageable through the Bank’s overall
policy dialogue with the PISG and UNMIK. In the end, these factors turned out to cause
the biggest delays during project implementation.

2.2 Implementation

Due process bypass. Under LPTAP the Transaction Advisor was to develop a shortlist of
bidders. However, before the Transaction Advisors were contracted MEM, with the
assistance of USAID consultants, selected during the last quarter of 2006 (i.e., after the
LPTAP Board presentation on October 12, 2006 but before project effectiveness on
March 6, 2007) four pre-qualified bidders: CEZ/AES Corporation (Czech/USA); RWE
Power AG (Germany); EnWB/Washington Group International (Germany/USA); and
ENEL/SENCAP (Italy/Greece). Nevertheless, the LPTAP Transaction Advisors were
able to confirm soon after they started work that the selection process had been conducted
fairly and that the shortlist was satisfactory (report dated August 23, 2007). However, the
Bank’s supervision missions of December 2006 and January 2007 found mounting
evidence that MEM was planning to negotiate directly with prospective bidders. Bank
management de facto threatened suspension in a letter dated January 24, 2007 and this
initiative was then stopped. The PISG appears to have been in a rush to finalize the
Kosovo C deal before parliamentary elections in October 2007.



                                            8
Additional Financing. The bids for the transaction and legal/regulatory advisors came in
higher than expected (see Section 1.7) so that US$2.0 million in Additional Financing
had to be obtained very early on in the project implementation phase. 8 Project
implementation subsequently encountered various challenges and problems, most of
which were not under the project team’s control as they were political in nature.

Political delays. The run-up to the parliamentary elections of October 2007, the time
involved in the formation of the first new Government, the subsequent Declaration of
Independence in February 2008 and the associated political exuberance, all caused major
unforeseen delays in project implementation within months of project effectiveness. The
new Government, and in particular the new MEM and MESP ministers, needed a
significant amount of time to become acquainted with the project, with the Government
initially considering repudiation of most of the work on the New Mine/Plant that had
been done by the previous Government. In fact, initially the new Minister of Mining and
Energy appeared to want to cancel the privatization process and retain full Kosovar
control over lignite mining and electricity production. This was an understandable
reaction after having obtained independence, and given the nature of local politics.
However, it ignored Kosovo’s financial and expertise constraints, and the Ministry’s
proposal to construct a third unit at Kosovo B (Kosovo B3) did not gain traction.
Proposals to refurbish the 50 year old A1 and A2 units of Kosovo A also went nowhere,
in part because of their clear conflict with the EU’s Large Combustion Plant Directive.

Project design change. Eventually, in addition to changing the name of the project from
Kosovo C to the Kosovo e Re (New Kosovo) Power Project (KRPP), the new
Government introduced changes to the original transaction package by adding
rehabilitation of the Kosovo B power plant to the KRPP package. The process leading up
to this decision involved long discussions, as there were diverging views between the
Bank and USAID on the impact that inclusion of Kosovo B would have. The LPTAP
team strongly argued that the project should remain green-field in order not to further
complicate and delay the New Mine/Plant project by about one year and to start
addressing the looming lignite gap and lack of reliable generation capacity as soon as
possible. However, this view was not shared by USAID, which was dealing with KEK
generation and distribution issues. The Bank’s mid-term review mission (March 2009)
reflected these issues and concerns in its reports.

Joint Bank-US letter. Following a series of meetings in Washington between the US
Government and World Bank teams in June 2009, ECA Regional management and the
US Government sent a joint letter dated July 6, 2009 to the Kosovo Government. The
letter stated, inter alia, that the timely privatization and rehabilitation of Kosovo B was a
priority for the Bank and USAID, and that the two organizations would draft together the
terms of reference of the necessary feasibility study and environmental and social impact




8
    All advisors were actively working on the LPTAP by mid-2007.



                                                         9
assessment. The Bank and USAID would also support a Transaction Advisor to guide
GoK through the process of offering Kosovo B to qualified private investors “including,
but not limited to, the prequalified (KRPP) bidders?. 9 Finally, the letter stated that the
Bank would support, in principle, a Partial Risk Guarantee (PRG) for Kosovo B if so
requested by the GoK and subject to the Bank’s qualification criteria for such a PRG.

Withdrawal of Shortlisted Investors and Reconfiguration of the Bidding Process. In
the summer of 2009, shortly after the issuance of the Joint Bank-US letter, two of the four
shortlisted investors withdrew from the shortlist citing (a) the international
economic/financial crisis and a resulting shortage of reasonably-priced funding for what
was perceived as a higher risk country; and (b) the enduring uncertainty concerning the
timing and structure of the transaction and the future operation of the project within the
context of the Kosovo market. 10 The transaction advisors believed that the other bidders
might also withdraw. This led to approximately six months of consultations and reviews
of different options, including an option of including Kosovo B in the privatization
package of the Kosovo Electricity Distribution System (KEDS) in order to make the
latter more attractive 11. Following this, the Government decided on December 17, 2009
to include Kosovo B in the KRPP investment package, including not only plant
rehabilitation but also construction of a cogeneration capability at the plant. The new
bidder prequalification process was promptly started on December 18, 2009, the
interested investors’ conference was held January 20-21, 2010, and a new group of
investors was shortlisted on March 5, 2010. 12 The draft RFP was issued to the new
shortlisted investors on August 10, 2010.

Ensuing delays and out-of-scope work. The additional time necessary to prepare the
Kosovo B subcomponent for bidding subject to standards satisfactory to the Bank; the
examination of different market options on how the New Mine/Plant and Kosovo B could
best work together; the frequent changes in the Government’s position; the numerous
PSC requests to advisors for additional work; and the lack of consistency in Government
decision-making, all led to issues related to “out of scope? payments to the Transaction
Advisor and the Legal and Regulatory Advisor. The contract signed between the
Government and the Transaction Advisors in July 2007 was amended four times until
April 2010 and a fifth contract amendment submitted in January 2011 was given no
objection by the Bank on December 11, 2011. During the same period, the contract with


9
 USAID would finance the feasibility study and the bidding documents for privatization of Kosovo B. Ultimately the
LPTAP transaction advisor also became the transaction advisor for Kosovo B when that plant was incorporated into the
KRPP package.

10
     Note dated November 6, 2009 to the Minister of Energy. RWE and EnWB/Washington Group withdrew.

11
     This option was advocated by IFC, the transaction advisor for the KEDS privatization.

12
  The new shortlisted prequalified bidders are Adani Power/PT Adani Global (India/Indonesia); AES Electric/Demir
Export (USA/Turkey); Park Holding (Turkey); and PPC/Contour Global (Greece/USA).


                                                           10
the Legal Advisors was amended four times, reflecting continuous changes in the
government’s thinking and project design. In parallel, a Kosovo Electricity Market
Model was being designed, which needed exceptions to the Energy Community Treaty
regarding long-term Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) for KRPP and Kosovo B,
requiring additional inputs from the advisors. The simultaneous privatization of KEDS
added to the complexities to the decision of who would negotiate the PPAs -- the
government or the new private sector investor in the yet-to-be-privatized KEDS. During
this project design adaptation process, parliamentary elections were held in November
2010 and a second new Government was eventually formed. This time, the Government
had a clear agenda to ensure completion of KRPP without further delay. LPTAP had to
be closed as scheduled on December 31, 2011 (see Section 3.2, para. 2), but the
Government had by that time engaged qualified advisors. The final RFP was issued to
bidders on March 7, 2012, only two months after LPTAP was closed. Also, as a result of
bidder feedback, Kosovo B was dropped from the KRPP package in July 2012, thus
validating the Bank LPTAP team’s opposition to inclusion of Kosovo B. Much time had
been lost needlessly in 2009-11, and additional time may yet be lost due to the need to
incorporate changes in the KRPP bidding documents and draft legal agreements on
sharing space, resources, transmission, etc.

Bank’s role in coal under scrutiny. Throughout this process and, in particular, starting
with the run-up to the Copenhagen Climate Change Conference of December 2009, the
Bank’s role in financing coal-fired power generation projects was increasingly being
questioned, both externally and internally. At the same time, the global financial crisis
had dramatically limited the financing available for such investments, as well as investor
appetite. As a result, the LPTAP team also had to devote a very significant amount of
time to preparing management briefs, meetings with CSOs and -because the GoK
requested a Partial Risk Guarantee for the KRPP- providing information to a Bank-
appointed External Expert Panel 13 explaining how KRPP would meet the Bank’s 2008
Strategic Framework for Development and Climate Change (SFDCC) criteria. 14 The
External Expert Panel eventually confirmed in early 2012 that the project met the SFDCC
criteria and that lignite fired generation was part of the least-cost plan for Kosovo.
Although the Bank’s own hesitance during 2009-2011 on the subject of coal-fired power
generation in general -- and KRPP in particular -- consumed a lot of the Bank team’s
attention, one positive side-effect may well have been to forge a decision by Government
to go ahead rapidly lest the window of opportunity for obtaining a Bank PRG closed.

Project-at-risk status. The project was considered at risk at the very beginning and again
at the end of the implementation period. The very first ISR of May 2007 rated both PDO
and IP as Unsatisfactory because of the attempted due process bypass by MEM (see


13
    An External Expert Panel was appointed in July 2011 to assess compliance of the proposed project with the six
criteria laid down in the Bank’s Strategic Framework for Development and Climate Change for financing coal-fired
power generation projects.

14
     During June 2008-November 2011 the LPTAP team participated in 11 meetings with CSOs.



                                                        11
Section 2.2, para. 1). In 2011, the Bank team rated the PDO as moderately satisfactory
because most PDOs had been achieved but the IP as Moderately Unsatisfactory (ISRs of
April 2011 and December 2011) due to the above-mentioned delays in completing the
bidding process and coming to financial close. The final PDO rating in Dec 2011 was
Moderately Satisfactory and the final IP rating was moderately unsatisfactory, for the
same reasons.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The Project Steering Committee (PSC) was, through the Project Office (PO), responsible
for monitoring the project’s progress against agreed performance indicators. The PO
monitored the performance of the consultants based on their respective contracts. This
included the review and approval of inception reports, draft reports, and final reports
issued by the consultants. Through regular supervision missions and continuous
coordination with the PO, the project team was able to verify progress on the substantive
completion of project components and subcomponents. However, less attention was
paid to administrative issues, including financial management reporting by the PO.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards. The project was limited to the provision of technical assistance for the
preparation of follow-on investments and, as such, no negative impact on society was
expected from its implementation. In fact, LPTAP provided assistance to the Government
to help it manage the social and environmental impacts of power generation and mining
activities, in particular land acquisitions, expropriation, and necessary resettlements, in
accordance with the highest international standards. The SESA was completed, and the
terms of reference for the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment were drafted. 15
A Resettlement Policy Framework and a Resettlement Action Plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, were adopted by the Government and are now being implemented (see Section 3.5,
para 2). Many other associated legislative proposals and regulatory instruments related to
safeguards in the energy and mining sector were adopted as well. Unfortunately, the
environmental database was not created because the necessary monitoring equipment
could not be procured before the grant closing date. The contract has been signed and the
equipment is expected to installed and functioning by December 2012 (see Section 3.2).
Also, USAID went ahead and initiated capacity building at the relevant agency and
created an air dispersion model using mobile air monitoring units; information from this
program will be fed into the Bank’s online monitoring system and may help reduce
delays. The absence of environmental baseline data may delay financial close of the
transaction until sufficient baseline data have been obtained. Somewhat surprisingly,
there is no evidence that any work was done on creating the environmental baseline
monitoring toolkit referred to in Component 1, sub 2. A satisfactory explanation of why
this was not done could not be obtained.

Fiduciary.     The financial and contract management performance is rated as
unsatisfactory. Regarding financial management this is primarily due to a lack of


15
     The TOR were finalized and disclosed for public consultation in August 2012.



                                                          12
attention by the PO in implementing the Bank’s financial management procedures and
the LPTAP team’s almost exclusive reliance on the PO in that regard. In particular, the
PO failed to submit advisors’ invoices in a timely manner to the Bank for payment.
Regarding contract management, and as mentioned in Section 2.2, during 2009-2011
there were many unforeseen changes that required a great deal of additional work to be
conducted by the Legal and Transaction Advisors. This work was outside the scope of
their contracts, but at the same time it was deemed necessary by all parties involved (the
Government and the Bank) and urgent in order to keep the project moving in the right
direction and ensure that bidders would not lose interest. Due to continuing uncertainty
in the transaction and growing global financial crisis that led to withdrawal of the
investors, the contracts of the Advisors were amended and the amounts of contracts
reduced in November 2009. In April 2010 the Advisors’ contracts were extended until
October 2010. The Advisors continued to not only provide “out of scope? services but
also worked beyond the contract closing dates. In January 2011, the Government
proposed to retroactively amend the contract to provide for payments for “out of scope?
work that had exceeded the contract ceiling of the revised contract (November 2009)
though within the contract ceiling of July 2007. The Bank gave its no objection to the
Government’s January 2011 request to amend the contracts of the Transaction Advisors
only in December 2011. During this period, there was no contract in place for future
works with the Advisors, which hindered the Government’s ability to make progress on
announcing the RfP. The Government had initially received proposals for contracting
services with the previous Transaction and Legal Advisors, however such proposals had
significant cost implications. Due to this reason, the Government had decided to
announce a public tender for hiring Transaction Advisor, and after receiving three
proposals signed a contract with the new Transaction Advisor in December 2011, after
receiving no objection from the Bank.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Government finances ongoing advisory work. Prior to LPTAP closing it was agreed that
the Government would finance, from its own funds, the advisory work necessary to bring
KRPP to a successful close and in compliance with all relevant World Bank standards
and policies. The Government engaged qualified advisors, focused exclusively on the
transaction.

Partial Risk Guarantee (PRG). The Government has requested a PRG for the KRPP and
the Bank issued a statement offering this support to all bidders as an option to consider in
drawing up their financing package. This statement is part of the RFP. IFC and MIGA
have offered financial and investment guarantee support in principle, respectively, and
the Government has indicated its desire to have the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (EBRD) provide additional support and financing if and when Kosovo
becomes a member of EBRD. The Government has prepared a satisfactory Resettlement
Action Plan based on the approved Resettlement Policy Framework for the first phase of
relocation of households from the new mining area and will undertake a comprehensive
(Category A) Environmental and Social Impact Assessment based on site-specific
characteristics. The External Expert Panel’s recommendation on “highest possible
efficiency? for the new power plant units was included in the final RFP (see Section 3.3).


                                            13
The new Kosovo Country Partnership Strategy for FY12-15 includes provisions that
address other recommendations of the External Expert Panel, notably a US$32.5 million
Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Project and a proposed US$18.0 million Water
Supply Project to ensure adequate water supply for the energy sector as well as other
sectors, while the IDA-funded energy sector-related Clean-Up and Land Reclamation
Project (CLRP; 2006) is still ongoing. Finally, the Bank will provide ongoing technical
assistance to the Government for the KRPP PRG preparation. This is to be financed
through an Additional Financing for the CLRP, expected to go to the Board in December
2012.

The above represents an exceptionally comprehensive continued support package. In
addition, several major donors such as the EU, KfW and the Dutch Government, have
agreed to provide additional support. The EU has also agreed to provide partial financing
for the eventual decommissioning of Kosovo A. With the Government’s active support
and engagement, and barring new unforeseen developments, this should enable KRPP to
come to financial close by end-2014.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Both the project development objectives and project design remain highly relevant to the
Government’s and the Bank’s economic development priorities. The Government’s
revised Energy Strategy for 2009-2018 was adopted in April 2010. The objectives of the
Strategy are security of energy supply, sector restructuring, developing and rehabilitating
power generation capacity, developing transmission and distribution, promoting foreign
investment, promoting energy efficiency and renewable energy use, and developing a
natural gas infrastructure. 16 Much of the Strategy is focused on Kosovo’s electricity
supply, including opening of the Sibovc lignite mine, rehabilitation of Kosovo B and
development of its cogeneration capacity, construction of the new power plant, closure
and decommissioning of Kosovo A, reduction of technical and commercial losses, and
compliance with the EU Acquis in the context of the Energy Community. The PDO
remains also fully consistent with the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy FY12-15,
approved on May 30, 2012. That CPS emphasizes the importance of economic growth
and improved environmental management by supporting, inter alia, infrastructure
development (especially energy), increasing energy efficiency and the use of renewables,
and generally moving towards harmonization with EU environmental standards.

The project was fully aligned with the generation and mining aspects of the
Government’s Energy Strategy. LPTAP implemented the technical assistance necessary
to strengthen the legal, regulatory and safeguards frameworks conducive to both new and
major rehabilitation investments in the sector; conducted mine and power plant analyses
(EAR-funded); examined renewable energy and energy efficiency options (see Section



16
     This could happen in the context of the proposed Energy Community Gas Ring, connecting most SEE countries.



                                                         14
3.2, para. 4); built project implementation and communications outreach capacity; and
performed comprehensive transaction advisory work, including selecting qualified
bidders, undertaking preparatory work and market testing, analyzing different market
options, and issuing a draft request for proposals.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The two Project Development Objectives were partly met. The first objective
(strengthening the enabling policy, legal, and regulatory frameworks conducive to new
investments in the energy sector) was almost fully achieved through the preparation,
adoption and promulgation of new legislation such as the law on Environmental Strategic
Assessment and the law on Public-Private Partnerships and Concessions, adoption of a
Resettlement Policy Framework and issuance of a draft Resettlement Policy Framework,
a finalized Resettlement Action Plan, preparation of a new mining field development plan,
development of a Kosovo energy market model and proposed new tariff regulations,
preparation of a final SESA report, and terms of reference for environmental assessments,
resettlement action plans, and social assessments. The one significant item within this
objective that was not achieved was the establishment of the environmental baseline
database, which is necessary to inform the investors. The procurement of three on-line air
quality monitoring stations repeatedly ran into obstacles, such as: (i) the PO not being
able during 2009 to find a suitable consultant to prepare specifications and bidding
documents; (ii) USAID prepared a monitoring plan and the specifications for the bidding
documents, eventually leading to the tendering process being put on a temporary hold in
2010 because of accusations that the specifications favored one particular supplier; and
(iii) redrafting of the specifications and re-tendering in 2011 that had to be suspended
because of the overruns on the contracts of the LPTAP legal/regulatory and transaction
advisors. The bids were finally issued, and the Bank provided its no-objection to the bid
evaluation and contract award in December 2011. There were further delays while new
funding mechanisms were being identified to pay for the equipment. Eventually it was
agreed in principle that the GoK would fund the cost of this equipment, possibly with
retroactive financing to be provided through the CLRP. The monitoring stations are
currently expected to be installed and operational by December 2012.

The second objective (attracting qualified private investors to develop lignite mines and
build new capacity for lignite-fired thermal power generation, guided by high standards
of environmental and social sustainability) was not fully met. This happened despite
major efforts by the Bank LPTAP team and the PO to keep the project on track in the
face of constantly changing political demands and project parameters. In the end, the
Bank decided that it would close the grant as scheduled on December 31, 2011 because
Additional Financing rules would not allow a long enough closing date extension to
complete the transaction. Because of that, part of the transaction advisory work could not
be completed and it essentially stopped after issuance of the draft RFP for comments to
bidders. However, the draft RFP is arguably one of the most important milestones in the
process of getting the private sector involved and completing a transaction, as it reflects




                                            15
broad consensus on all parameters of the KRPP and the market model underlying it. 17
Also, although two of the four originally shortlisted investors withdrew citing the
international financial crisis, the LPTAP team stayed the course and this enabled the PSC
to select a new group of four qualified investors for the reconfigured KRPP. The project
was delayed but not derailed. Given the very difficult and unusual political environment
in Kosovo, donor pressures, and the international financial and economic crisis during
2008-2011 when many PPP projects worldwide were simply cancelled, this must be
considered a major achievement.

As far as renewable energy is concerned the project fully met its target related to the
important Zhur hydropower plant as it completed the pre-feasibility study, including the
preparation of a pre-Environmental Impact Assessment and a pre-Social impact
Assessment. The Government is now weighing how and when to proceed with project
development. Work on further development of the 35 MW Ujmani HPP could not
proceed because the reservoir on which it depends is partly in Serbian territory.
Although the Bank proposed at the time of the Additional Financing of 2007 to drop it
from LPTAP, the Government expressed a strong wish to keep it in. LPTAP’s intended
support for energy efficiency did, regrettably, not materialize: contrary to expectations
the conditions for energy efficiency in Kosovo did not improve during project
implementation, as electricity tariffs were kept constant by the Energy Regulatory Office
(and therefore decreased significantly in real terms) and electricity theft and non-payment
of bills continued to be major problems, despite some improvement in that regard during
the last three years. The EU and other donors were providing some assistance to Kosovo
in the energy efficiency area, including preparing legislation and implementing small
pilot projects. An attempt by the Bank’s LPTAP team to develop energy efficiency
indicators together with the American University of Kosovo was eventually dropped
because the Government had other -- in its view more pressing -- issues needed to be
dealt with. Recently, after the approval of the law on Energy Efficiency, the Ministry has
established the Energy Efficiency Agency, responsible for implementing energy
efficiency projects and preparation of the energy efficiency plans, and has started
implementing projects on energy conservation and efficiency and has received funding
from the European Commission’s Western Balkans Infrastructure Framework to prepare
projects for energy efficiency in public buildings for financing by the donors and IFIs.

With the first objective having been almost fully completed and the second objective
partially completed, most of the building blocks were in place for a successful open,
transparent and competitive tendering for KRPP by the time the grant closed. Provided
the Government, through the PSC, keeps a laser-like focus on completing this transaction,
financial close by end-2014 should be possible. Details on project implementation are
provided in Annex 2.

3.3 Efficiency



17
     The final RFP was issued to qualified bidders only two months after the closing date, on March 7, 2012.


                                                      16
Since this is a technical assistance project, cost/benefit analyses did not need to be carried
out at appraisal. The original project appraisal document nevertheless attempted to
calculate the economic benefits of the 600 MW new capacity power and mine project to
Kosovo on the assumption that the new power plant would be operational by 2013.
However, financial close is now expected by end-2014, so the new plant could be
operational by end-2018 at the earliest. This would mean that Kosovo A could be
decommissioned with some delay after expiry of the EU’s Large Combustion Plant
Directive deadline. The EU financed early on an Options Review and a technical
analysis of the Kosovo C package as originally proposed but a full-fledged economic
analysis of the KRPP will be prepared as part of the appraisal of the proposed PRG when
all terms and conditions of the proposed project will be known. The new lignite-fired
power plant has consistently been identified as part of the regional least-cost solution for
new capacity additions (REBIS/GIS studies of 2004 and 2007). The World Bank-
appointed External Expert Panel, in its January 2012 report, unanimously agreed that
lignite-fired generation (preferably through two 300 MW units rather than a single 600
MW unit) of the “highest possible efficiency? would be the most appropriate option to fill
Kosovo’s supply-demand gap in the medium term, even considering all renewable energy
and energy efficiency options available and taking into consideration environmental costs
of lignite-fired generation. In terms of the technical assistance project itself: the high
level of international expertise necessary for this transaction inevitably required a
correspondingly high level of advisory service fees. These fees were not exorbitant by
international standards. Therefore, given the achievements under LPTAP and also the
significant level of donor coordination in terms of technical assistance, the project is
deemed to have been efficient in its use of resources.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Project Development Objectives were and remain highly relevant as evidenced by
successive Government and Bank strategy documents. They were also to a large extent
achieved, as measured against the monitoring indicators presented in the Results
Framework Analysis. Due to a lack of Government direction and decision-making
during 2008-2009 and the addition of a major component (Kosovo B), the project closing
date had to be extended by 24 months to December 31, 2011. Towards the end of 2011 a
decision was made to close LPTAP because the need for a second Additional Financing
would require it to be closed by December 31, 2012 at the latest, while significantly more
time would still be needed to bring the project to financial close.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Since the project funded only TA for future infrastructure investments, there have been
no direct poverty, gender or social impacts. An assessment of the impact of the future
project is outside the scope of this ICR but will be undertaken in the context of the
proposed Bank Partial Risk Guarantee for the KRPP transaction (see Section 2.5, para. 2).
The improved supply of reliable electricity as a result of the future power generation
investment should benefit all electricity consumers and the economy as a whole, since it
would lift one of the main constraints on private investment and business in general. The
health impact of cleaner electricity generation will be felt especially in the wider

                                              17
Prishtina region. The impact of inevitable future electricity price increases on low-
income consumers would be cushioned by an appropriately structured multiple block
tariff with a lifeline tariff. Such a tariff structure was developed and introduced by the
Regulator with USAID assistance and is in conformity with the Energy Community
Treaty and applicable EU Directives.

The Bank was insistent on the Government putting in place an appropriate Resettlement
Policy Framework and Resettlement Action Plan for the population of the areas affected
by development of the new mine. The Government adopted the Framework on July 6,
2011 and the Bank gave its no-objection to the draft RAP in December, 2011. The RAP
is now being implemented. A private company has been contracted to prepare the
resettlement site, and an independent company supervises the works, which could be
completed by Summer 2013. Preparation of the resettlement site will require provision of
roads, electricity, water and sewerage for approximately 300 plots, 120 of which are
designated for the Shala neighborhood. The remaining plots are designated for the
individuals who were evacuated by UNMIK on an emergency basis from Hade village in
2004 because of the imminent danger that the adjacent mine face might collapse.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The various policies and legal, regulatory and environmental/social frameworks
developed during the project will be of long-term benefit to Kosovo because they align
decision-making in the energy sector with the highest international standards, including
specifically those of the EU, the World Bank Group and other IFIs. The frameworks
developed for, and experience gained by Kosovo officials with, a privatization project of
this magnitude will also benefit future privatizations in other sectors of the economy.

The Project Office developed major technical expertise in handling critical aspects of a
large and complex privatization process, including selection of qualified bidders,
contracting sophisticated international advisors, and monitoring their performance. The
members of the PSC, through their long-term involvement in analysis and review of the
many multi-faceted issues related to these investments, have also become much more
knowledgeable. In addition, the Ministry of Economic Development (which is now
responsible for the energy sector) has developed a significantly improved external
communications capacity. These achievements will be of great benefit to the
Government as it seeks to bring KRPP to a successful close, as well as for other future
energy sector investment projects such as Zhur HPP and other renewable or thermal
energy projects.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The major unintended outcome was the 2009 change in the scope of the KRPP which
added the sale and rehabilitation of Kosovo B (including new cogenerating capacity) to
the package. The addition of Kosovo B effectively brought KEK Generation and its
problems into the project, something the Bank had wished to avoid from the start because
it would significantly change the risk profile of the project. The LPTAP team correctly
argued that this increase in scope and complexity of the project would also cause a major
delay in the transaction. This was because of the need to perform feasibility studies for
Kosovo B, create stakeholder consensus on a workable market model for the two power

                                           18
plants, etc. The numerous changes to KRPP and the added complexities of Kosovo B
resulted in valuable time being lost (see Section 2.2, paras 5-6) and contributed to the
financial management issues of the project, given the relationship between the advisory
contract issues and the inclusion of Kosovo B.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
A beneficiary survey was not required for this TA project. During preparation of the
Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment (SESA), extensive community
consultations and focus group discussions were held. In addition, during the Investment
Options Review and New Power Plant Development and Analysis, workshops were
organized with key stakeholders to discuss the findings of the studies and take feedback
on board. More detail is provided in Annex 6.



4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High
The project achieved a number of major milestones, notably the issuance to qualified
bidders of the draft RFP which was followed, shortly after the project closing date, by
issuance of the RFP. For the first time, therefore, there is a reasonable prospect that there
could be financial close with the winning bidder in the short term (end-2014). However,
many potential hurdles remain and rapid and transparent decision-making by the PSC
will be of the essence for the process to stay on track and to keep bidders interested. The
Government should deal with new resettlement issues as agreed with the Bank under the
Resettlement Policy Framework (adopted by the GoK on July 6, 2011) by implementing
the agreed World Bank-compliant Resettlement Action Plan. It should also resolve
without further delay the issues related to the 2004 Hade emergency evacuation by
UNMIK. Unless GoK stays focused on rapidly implementing KRPP, Kosovo’s future
energy supply - and therefore its economic development - are at serious risk given its
aging power generation and distribution assets and regional electricity supply constraints
and the negative impact the unsatisfactory electricity supply situation has on doing
business in Kosovo.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
Based on the assessment of project preparation and design in Section 2.1, Bank
performance in ensuring quality at entry should be rated as satisfactory. Considerable
Bank-funded technical assistance had preceded this operation through ESTAP I, II and III
(2001-2005). Project objectives and components were as well-defined as they could be,
and they were consistent with Kosovo’s and donors’ priorities and the ISN’s objectives.
Project identification, preparation and appraisal were done in a way that could have
ensured that the expected outcomes were achieved, had the external environment

                                             19
cooperated. The Bank knew at the time that it started a high risk/high reward operation in
a politically very uncertain and difficult environment but underestimated the donor
coordination and country/political risks. Donor coordination turned out to be particularly
difficult because of the differing views within the donor community and frequent high-
level interventions.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately satisfactory
The project team conducted very extensive and intensive supervision efforts, including
numerous major high-level donor coordination meetings. Based on the Bank’s
experience with private sector participation projects in other countries, management and
staff knew that supervision would require very considerable Bank resources.
Accordingly, supervision budgets were high but no more than the level required for this
kind of project. The project team was consistently well-staffed on the guarantee, legal,
and safeguards side and turned in a very good performance on that score. During 2009-
2011 the team was understandably preoccupied with getting the project moving again
despite frequent changes in the GoK’s position and the difficulty of developing a
common donor strategy on project scope and design. At the same time, the Bank was
reviewing its approach towards coal-based electricity generation. The team had to spend
valuable time in preparing management briefings on how the proposed new power plant
would meet the criteria of the Strategic Framework for Development and Climate Change,
culminating in the appointment of an External Expert Panel. These factors led to the
team not paying sufficient attention to the management of the contracts of the transaction
and legal advisors.

The value of the contracts of the transaction and legal advisors were revised downward
from an original amount of US$6.47 million (July 2007) to US$3.07 million in
November 2009. This was done because of the Government's indecision on the size and
configuration of the power project and because the previously defined deadlines for
deliverables had become impractical. However, discussions on redefining the project
continued. In addition, the advisors' assistance was needed to relaunch the process of
shortlisting the investors. This led to the Government asking the advisors to continue to
undertake "out of scope" work against time-based fee rates. Some confusion was caused
by the language of the Bank's no objection to the out of scope work that allowed this
work "within the original value of the contract". In addition, the Bank changed its
internal control system from monitoring disbursements against "contracts" to monitoring
against "category of expenditure". These factors, in addition to the weaknesses in contract
administration by the Project Office and supervision by the Bank, resulted in
disbursements exceeding the value of the contract as revised in 2009 though still within
the value of the original contract signed in July 2007. A request by the Government in
January 2011 to resolve this issue and to retroactively rectify the contracts took almost
one year. This situation could have been avoided if the Bank had not changed the internal
disbursement control systems and stopped monitoring disbursements against contracts.
This systemic problem in contract and disbursements monitoring due to a change in
financial management procedures introduced in [2008], is now being reviewed by the


                                            20
Bank. Balancing the substantive achievements with the weakness in contract oversight,
the overall quality of supervision should be rated as moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The project quality at entry is rated as satisfactory and supervision as moderately
satisfactory. The latter rating is based solely on the problems with contract monitoring
and disbursements procedures, not on the substance of the Bank team’s successful efforts
to keep this project on track and in compliance with Bank policies and procedures despite
major changes in project scope and frequent shifting in Government positions.
Nevertheless, given the importance of fiduciary aspects in the Bank’s work, the overall
Bank performance should be rated as only moderately satisfactory.




5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory
Three phases of Government performance. During the project implementation period
there were three phases of Government performance. The first phase was the PISG
period, when the newly established Ministry of Energy and Mining –in the mistaken
desire to move the project forward quickly- tried to increase the size of the project to the
theoretical full potential of 2,000 MW and proposed direct negotiations with the
prequalified bideers, thus bypassing the “due process? of open and transparent tendering
that the Bank advocated. If anything, Government support of the new mine/plant was too
enthusiastic, combined with a willingness to have some kind of tendering process without
having appropriate legal and regulatory frameworks in place and without proper social
and environmental safeguards. The second phase started after the elections of October
2007 and formation of the first new Government, which effectively also was the end of
the PISG. 18 This phase was marked by the proclamation of independence, a process that
consumed much of the new Government’s time during the first six months. Following
that there was a long period during which the Government questioned all aspects of the
Kosovo C project, including the need to give private investors controlling shares of the
mine and power plant. The Government also explored the possibility of rehabilitating the
very old and polluting Kosovo A1 and A2 units. This phase was concluded by the
inclusion of rehabilitation of Kosovo B into the project, limiting the size of Kosovo C to
600 MW, and renaming it the Kosovo e Re Power Project (KRPP). Much of the LPTAP
advisors’ and the team’s time was subsequently spent on thinking through the appropriate
market model for this new project configuration. The third phase started with the second
new Government, formed after the November 2010 elections and was characterized by


18
   As noted above, the PISG officially ceased to exist when the new Constitution of the Republic of Kosovo came into
effect on June 15, 2008.


                                                        21
full support for the KRPP and the LPTAP process. Thus, while Government
performance was unsatisfactory during the first and second phases it was fully
satisfactory during the third phase, even though that came late in the LPTAP process.
Taking into account the complex political circumstances in Kosovo, Borrower
performance is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory
The Project Office had a good level of technical competence and satisfactorily
implemented all project components as agreed with the Bank team. It was adequately
staffed and received training in Bank procurement and disbursement procedures, but the
Bank’s offer around mid-term to provide selected PO staff with additional training in
procurement was declined by MEM. The PO was preoccupied with the ever-changing
project scenarios and, in particular, with meeting Government demands for information
related to the project. As a result, the PO did not adequately monitor disbursement
requests by the advisors against contracts or warn the Bank’s task team leader of pending
problems in that regard, and was late in submitting invoices to the Bank. Since financial
management and procurement were among its principal functions its overall performance
should therefore be rated as moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory.
Based on the above ratings and given the greater weight of Government, overall borrower
performance is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

Lessons learned from implementation of this Project can be summarized as follows:

1.       A project with this level of economic and political complexity should be
undertaken only if it has broad and deep political support, including amongst major
donors. The project was started at a time that PISG and UNMIK were looking for an
initiative that promised strategic investor involvement and major economic returns for
Kosovo and political support initially appeared to be solid. In fact, however, it began to
crumble soon thereafter as diverging political agendas became clearer as Kosovo edged
towards its first parliamentary elections and independence – a major and highly unusual
complicating factor during project implementation. This took away an inordinate amount
of time from top Government officials that could otherwise have been spent on advancing
the project. After independence, it took a long time to create a consensus among the
population that allowing private investors to participate in the sector would not mean
giving up national sovereignty. This policy dialogue may still not be finished. However,
several developments, such as successful privatization of KEDS, clarity on transaction
structure after separating rehabilitation of Kosovo B from the proposed KPP, and
continued commitment of the pre-qualified investors to KPP would likely help the
government in running a timely and orderly process for inviting proposals.


                                           22
2.       Keep project design as simple as possible and resist pressure to make inherently
difficult large scale privatization projects even more complex by adding components,
especially when each component brings with it controversial and/or unfinished business.
LPTAP was originally designed to provide technical assistance for a privatization project
in what was then officially not an independent country but a “territory? or “entity? under
interim international administration by UNMIK, where no major private investments had
been made before and where much of the legal/regulatory framework was lacking. In
itself, this was a daunting challenge but the project as designed was straightforward: to
provide TA for a new plant/mine project producing power primarily for export to the SEE
region but with a substantial share of production reserved for the domestic market as
needed. Political events, multiple changes in Government positions and the addition of
another major project component enormously complicated project implementation. The
addition of Kosovo B to the package expanded the project scope significantly and caused
major delays in project implementation because complicated issues of market design
needed to be solved first. While the privatization of KEDS was not part of the package,
the fact that it was running concurrently with KRPP also caused complications and
absorbed Government officials’ time at a critical juncture for the project. 19

3.      Having an experienced Bank energy professional based in the field could
possibly have ensured that Kosovar decision-makers received more balanced advice on
a regular basis and those differences of opinion with major donors could have been
avoided or resolved before they surfaced in the open. Other major donors, like EAR and
KfW, had invested large amounts of money in the energy sector before the Bank initiated
LPTAP and had a substantial energy sector presence on the ground. USAID had
contracted for technical advisors in the Ministry of Energy and Mining and the Ministry
of Economy and Finance. Most importantly, it also had a seasoned energy professional
on its own staff. 20 A similar World Bank presence could have ensured earlier and
stronger agreement between the donor institutions and alerted the Bank on a continuous
basis to any emerging obstacles to the LPTAP process and the project timetable.

4.     A critical success factor is a strong inter-ministerial Project Steering
Committee, which is committed to the objective and does not inappropriately revisit
decisions already taken. In the case of the complex and controversial KRPP, the PSC
suffered from periods of weak leadership and a fractious membership. While
unanticipated outside factors -- including the global financial crisis -- did require
reconfiguration of the transaction, there were many other instances where decisions
previously taken were unnecessarily reviewed again. This resulted in major delays and



19
    In June 2012, the Government received two bids for KEDS privatization and selected a consortium of two Turkish
companies (Calik and Limak) with an offer of Euro 26.3 million. This offer was also ratified by the Parliament. The
privatized KEDS would be required to reduce technical and commercial losses (currently at about 37%) and increase
bill collection according to an agreed trajectory of annual targets. Also the ERO has increased electricity tariffs by an
average of 8.9%.

20
     USAID also had a strong team supporting KEK (and after 2009 ERO) through a consulting group.



                                                            23
significant additional expenses in terms of transaction and legal advisory costs.

5.      Given the size and the unpredictability of advisory service costs for such
transactions, and especially when changing circumstances result in changing demand,
special arrangements need to be in place to monitor the PIU and the financial
management reports in order to control costs. Because of the dynamic nature of large
PPP transactions, it is impossible to avoid entirely the use of adjustment provisions in the
contracts that allow advisors to perform “additional services? beyond the original scope
of their contracts. Although in the LPTAP case these services were requested, required
and appropriately priced, it is clear that they were not adequately monitored and
controlled. It is also noteworthy that this is not an isolated incident. Other Bank-funded
infrastructure projects have seen consultant costs significantly exceed the ceiling amount
in their contracts, due to the use of the additional services provisions. This situation could
have been avoided if the Bank had not changed its internal disbursement control system
from monitoring disbursements against contracts to monitoring disbursements against
expenditure categories. In such cases, the financial management reports issued by the
PIU should be more frequently and more closely examined by the Bank.

6.     More decisive guidance by the Bank to its staff on coal-fired power projects
would have been highly desirable. Two years into the implementation of LPTAP a full-
fledged controversy about Bank involvement in coal-fired power generation erupted
during the run-up to the Copenhagen Climate Change Conference of December, 2009.
Subsequently, the project team had to spend an extensive amount of time explaining why
and how KRPP would meet the SFDCC criteria. The Bank’s lack of direction on whether
or not it should continue to be involved in coal-fired generation and mining caused
uncertainty and contributed to the project’s delays and advisory services costs.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                             24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                   Revised Estimate   Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                                     Percentage of
          Components                                  2007 (USD       Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                                        Appraisal
                                                       millions)         millions)
Component 1: Policy, Legal and
                                            3.00               3.90        6.9             230
regulatory Advice
Component 2: Mine and Power
                                            2.25               2.50        2.27            101
Plants Analyses
Component 3: Capacity Building              1.25               1.40        1.89            151
Component 4: Transaction
                                            3.00               3.97        5.34            178
Advisor
Contingencies                               1.00               0.73

           Total Baseline Cost            10.50             12.50
            Total Project Costs           10.50             12.50          16.4            156
     Total Financing Required             10.50             12.50          16.4




(b) Financing
                                    Appraisal     Revised
                                                             Actual/Latest
                                     Estimate     Estimate                 Percentage of
         Source of Funds                                        Estimate
                                       (USD      2007 (USD                  Appraisal
                                                            (USD millions)
                                     millions)    millions)
Borrower                          0.00         0.00         5.5
EC: EU - European Agency for
                                  2.00            2.00      2.00          100
Reconstruction (EAR)
IDA Grant                         8.50            8.50      8.9           85
Additional IDA Grant                              2.00
Total Financing                   10.50           12.5      16.4          156




                                          25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: This component focused on a preparation and presentation to the
Assembly of various policy, legal and regulatory instruments, consistent with good
international practice, as well as strengthening safeguards regulatory framework. The
table below summarizes the main activities and their outputs. Most of the work under this
component has been finalized with the exception of the third activity where only a
portion of it has been completed.

Activity                                Output
i) Preparation and presentation to the - Law       on     Environmental   Strategic
Assembly of various policy, legal and     Assessment was promulgated by the
regulatory instruments, consistent with   President on March 19, 2009.
good international practice.            - Law on Public Private Partnerships and
                                          Concessions      promulgated    by the
                                          President on July 15, 2009.
                                        - Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF)
                                          was adopted by the Government.
                                        - Draft RFP was issued
                                        - A set of draft Project Agreements
                                          accompanying Draft RFP were prepared
                                        - Kosovo Market Model was developed
                                        - New regulation on tariff (generation,
                                          transmission, distribution, retail) was
                                          prepared.
ii) Safeguards Advice -SESA, Sector - Final SESA report was delivered in
Specific EIA Handbook, TOR for            December 2008
Environmental Impact Assessment, - ToRs for Environmental Assessment
Social Assessment and Resettlement        were finalized in December 2008
Action Plan for new investments.        - ToRs for Resettlement Action Plans
                                          finalized in December 2008
                                        - ToRs for Social Assessments finalized in
                                          December 2008
                                        - Final draft of the New Mining field
                                          development plan
                                        - Resettlement       Policy     Framework
                                          approved in July 2011
                                        - Resettlement Action Plan finalized in
                                          December 2011
iii) Safeguards Advice - Baseline - Bid evaluation report for air quality
environmental monitoring and data         monitoring equipment has been received
collection and development of an          by the Bank on December 13, 2011 and
environmental monitoring                  Bank no-objection was provided.
and data registration and reporting - Soil and water quality monitoring
system.                                   specialist assigned.



                                           26
Component 2: This component was implemented jointly between World Bank and
European Agency for Reconstruction (EAR). It consisted of three subcomponents such as
i) investment option review; ii) new power plant development and technical analysis; and
iii) renewable energy, cogeneration and energy efficiency. The first two components
were implemented by EAR and only the third one was implemented by the Bank. The
work under this component was almost fully completed. The outstanding work relates to
the third activity with respect to the energy efficiency activities. The table below outlines
the main activities and outputs:

Activity                           Output
i) Investment Options Review       - Options Analysis Study
ii) New Power Plant Development and- Power Market Review
Technical Analysis                 - Transmission System Impact Assessment
                                   - New power plant sitting and technical
                                     analysis
                                   - Carbon Market Study
                                   - Site selection
                                   - Economic and Financial Analysis
iii) Support for Renewable Energ - The HPP Zhur Pre-Feasibility Study,
Cogeneration and Energy Efficiency   including the preparation of pre-EIA and
                                     pre-SIA

Component 3: This component supported ongoing capacity building within Project
Office, Project Steering Committee (PSC), MEM and MESP. The Project Office
managed the solicitation of private investors, and coordinated various Government
institutions in the decision-making process (through the PSC) to approve a very complex
set of legal documents and the draft RFP. Project office staff was trained in major project
development and there has been visible improvement in communications by MEM.
Large number of Government officials has gone through learning-by-doing while
participating in intense deliberations on the preparation of the transaction.

Component 4: The Transaction Advisory component was chief in preparing all
background work leading to market testing for the original package, which included only
New Power Plant and New Mine and later on for the revised package, which also
included Kosovo B. the transaction advisors provided assistance to the Project Office and
PSC during the solicitation of second group of short-listed bidders, as well as in
preparation of Draft RFP and accompanying legal agreements. The following table
provides a summary of the outputs.

Activity                                  Output
Transaction Advisory                      - Draft RFP
                                          - A set of draft Project Agreements
                                            accompanying Draft RFP were prepared
                                          - Sibovc Mine Asset Valuation and
                                            Government Interest Scenarios

                                             27
- Revised Transitional Market Model
  Concept Paper for the Kosovo Electricity
  Sector
- Unit sizing report
- Capital cost estimates
- Valuation of Kosovo B
- PSC meeting: Recommendations for
  short-listing bidders from expression of
  interest submitted
- Phase One Report
- Phase One Report: Development of
  Financial Model
- Phase One Report: Decision Support
  Document
- Working Framework Document
- Review of pre-qualification of investors




  28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)


Not applicable to a technical assistance project.




                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

   (a) Task Team members

                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Vardarajan Atur            Lead Energy Specialist and TTL     ECSS2
Husam Mohamed Beides       Lead Energy Specialist             MNSEG
Olav Rex Christensen       Senior Public Finance Specialist   HDNED
Plamen Stoyanov Kirov      Senior Procurement Specialist      LCSPT
                           Senior Social Development
Paula F. Lytle                                                AFTCS
                           Specialist
 Mark M. Moseley           Lead Counsel                       LEGPS
 Norval Stanley Peabody    Consultant                          ECSS2
 Scott Sinclair            Lead Financial Officer             AFTEG
 Michael C. Stanley        Lead Mining Specialist             SEGOM
 Masaki Takahashi          Sr Power Engineer                   EASIN
 Frank Van Woerden         Senior Environmental Engineer       ECSS3
 Mark Walker               Chief Counsel                      LEGES
Nicholay Chistyakov        Sr. Finance Officer                LOAG1
Andrew Kircher             Unit Chief                         EXTCC
Anil Markandya             Consultant                         ECSSD
Erika Casajoana-Daunert    Consultant                         ECSSD
Despina Pascal             Consultant                         ECSSD
Yolanda Litan Gedse        Program Assistant                  ECSSD
Rozena Serrano             Program Assistant                  ECSSD
Juderica Dias              Program Assistant                  ECSSD

Supervision/ICR
Krenar Bujupi              E T Consultant                      ECSS2
Hinderikus Busz            Consultant                          ECSS2
Yolanda Litan Gedse        Program Assistant                  ECSSD
Elona Gjika                Financial Management Specialist    ECSOQ
Mohinder P. Gulati         Country Sector Coordinator         ECSSD
Teuta Kacaniku             E T Consultant                     FEUFS
Paula F. Lytle             Senior Social Development Spec     AFTCS
Peggy Janice Masterson     Operations Officer                  ECSS2
Devesh Chandra Mishra      Manager                            ECSO2
Mark M. Moseley            Lead Counsel                       LEGPS
Kirsten Propst             Senior Counsel                     LEGEM
Aman Sachdeva              Consultant                         SASDE
Scott Sinclair             Lead Financial Officer and TTL     AFTEG
Michael C. Stanley         Lead Mining Specialist             SEGOM

                                           30
Masaki Takahashi           Sr Power Engineer                EASIN
Frank Van Woerden          Senior Environmental Engineer     ECSS3
Maria V. Vannari           Senior Procurement Specialist    OPCPR
Amelito Velasco            Procurement Assistant            ECSO2
Edon Vrenezi               Operations Officer               LCSDE
Peter A. van der Veen      Consultant                       SEGOM


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                                                 879.09
  FY07                                                                 227.10

                          Total:                                      1106.19
Supervision/ICR

 FY07                                                                  470.22
 FY08                                                                  385.81
 FY09                                                                  363.67
 FY10                                                                  639.86
 FY11                                                                  479.21
 FY12                                                                  294.34
                          Total:                                      2633.11
                    Grand Total:                                      3739.30




                                          31
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

A beneficiary survey was not required for this technical assistance project and was not
done.




                                            32
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment (SESA). As part of the implementation
of project component 1, sub-component 2 (the Safeguards Framework), a Strategic
Environmental and Social Assessment (SESA) was prepared. During the SESA
preparatory work extensive community consultations and focus group discussions were
held with project-affected communities in surrounding villages. The purpose of these
consultations was to identify the main concerns of the project-affected communities as
well as to co-ordinate and document the project’s consultation; assist in the development
and implementation of a grievance mechanism; establish and facilitate community
development forums and define the roles and responsibilities within those forums. The
meetings were held in the villages of Hade, Lajthishte, Dardhishtë, Grabovc, Shipitulle,
Hamidid, Obiliq, Crkvena Vodica/Janjine Vode and Palaj/Mirash.

Investment Options Review and New Power Plant Development and Analysis. Under
Component 2, sub-components 1 and 2 (Investment Options Review and New Power
Plant Development and Analysis, respectively), workshops with key stakeholders were
organized to discuss the findings of the studies conducted. The Bank prepared a study
“Development and Evaluation of Power Supply Options for Kosovo? and appointed an
External Expert Panel to assess whether the proposed project complies with the Bank’s
Strategic Framework for Development and Climate Change. The Expert Panel held
public consultations in Pristina in August 2011. Both the Options Study and Expert Panel
report were disseminate to the public and discussed in Pristina in February 2012.

Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). Regarding Component1, sub-component 1, the RAP
was finalized by MESP in cooperation with consultants (Re-Plan of Toronto). Technical
preparations are completed. The baseline socio-economic survey has been carried out and
analyzed; land and asset surveys have been completed. The resettlement site is in the
same municipality, close to a good road and transportation services, which will facilitate
movement to and from employment. The RAP preparation process was characterized by
frequent and meaningful consultations with affected people, which has resulted in a large
number of resettlement agreements having already been signed.




                                           33
Annex 7. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report

1. Assessment of the operation's objective, design, implementation, and operational
   experience;

The purpose of the LPTAP was to provide technical assistance on developing the legal
and regulatory framework, transparent transaction and bidding processes, and
environmental and social safeguards frameworks and plans meeting the highest
international standards.

The project development objectives were to:
   a) help the PISG strengthen the enabling policy, legal and regulatory frameworks
       conducive to new investments in the energy sector; and
   b) assist the government to attract qualified private investors to develop lignite
       mines and build new capacity for lignite thermal power generation, guided by
       high standards of environmental and social sustainability.

The LPTAP inherited investor short-listing process initiated in 2006, approximately at the
same time procurement process for advisory services has been initiated as well. The
short-list of four qualified bidder consortia was also endorsed by the World Bank, shortly
after the Financing Agreement has been signed.

The Project Office was established in 2007 and initially the project manager was selected.
During implementation phase the Project Office was completed with adequate staff, and
it was filled with other staff as needed during years. Coordination and communication
was held directly with the minister and its cabinet.

By mid 2007, project advisor have been procured (PwC as transaction advisors, H&W as
legal advisors, ERM as environmental advisors).

Soon after the initial scoping work of the advisors by end of 2007 the national elections
were held. The new Government was established in early 2008. The Strategic
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment for 2000MW Kosovo C has been
published in June 2008 with public consultations held in September 2008. In the same
month first PSC under the new government was held. After deliberation of discussions
and coordination among key stakeholders, in June 2009 the Government published new
policies on Energy sector, including: development of new power plant with capacity of
1,000 MW + 1,000 MW for later stage, decommissioning of power plant Kosova A at
end of 2015, privatisation of distribution and supply services within KEK, involvement of
private sector in Kosovo B power plant and improvement of collection.

Soon after that, in July 2009, as a result of 2008 Global Financial Crisis two bidders
withdrew from the process.

In December 2009 the Government published the new Expression of Interest for the re-
configured project, which would include: development of the new lignite fired power

                                           34
plant with a capacity installed of 1,000 MW, development of the new lignite mine to
ensure security of lignite supply for Kosovo A, Kosovo B and the new power plant.

The Expression of Interest resulted in 6 interested consortia from 10 different countries.
On March 2010 the PSC decided that 4 from 6 bidders may be pre-qualified. The list of 4
consortia qualified is:
   - Adani Power/PT Adani Global (India/Indonesia);
   - AES Electric/Demir Export (USA/Turkey);
   - Park Holding (Turkey); and
   - PPC/Contour Global (Greece/USA)

On April 2010 the Assembly of Kosova adopted the revised Energy Strategy 2009-2018
proposed by the Government, which included the project Kosova e Re with its
components of the Project.

On August 10th 2010 the Government based on recommendations from the Project
Steering Committee for the Project approves and published for the pre-qualified bidders
the draft Request for Proposal and the draft Project Agreements. In September 2010
consulting meetings was held with the bidders, project advisors and representatives of the
Government participated as well.

In October 2010 the date for earlier general elections was decided.

By end of October contract with Transaction and Legal advisors have lapsed. On January
2011 e request for no objection for the World Bank regarding the payments of the
advisors contract was done. No objection was received in December 2011. Limited
activity was done due to lack of transaction and legal advisors contract.

The new Government was established in February 2011. The newly elected and
restructured government cabinet in March 2011 decides to move ahead with transaction
and cover the cost of PIU and the advisors from Kosovo Budget.

Transaction Advisors (including legal advisors) are procured during second half of 2011.
Contract with Raiffaisen investment AG is signed in December 2011.

On 31 December 2011 the LPTAP is closed.

The PIU staff is hired competitively by mid January 2012.

New Advisors and PIU finalized the Request for Proposals and Project Agreement by 7
March 2012.

Since issue of RFP project is on path meeting its objectives.




                                            35
2. Assessment of the outcome of the operation against the agreed objectives;

The project development objectives were to:

   a) help the PISG strengthen the enabling policy, legal and regulatory frameworks
      conducive to new investments in the energy sector; and

   b) assist the government to attract qualified private investors to develop lignite
      mines and build new capacity for lignite thermal power generation, guided by
      high standards of environmental and social sustainability.

The key indicators were:

   (a) various policy, legal and regulatory instruments, consistent with international
       good practice, adopted and used by the government; and

   (b) selection of a project sponsor and negotiation leading to financial closing on mine
       and power plant investment(s).

The project objectives under a) have been satisfied with new laws, policies and guidelines
in place.

Project objectives under b) have been met partially, where the borrower successfully
managed to maintain interest of investors for the project, even though it was necessary to
short-list bidders twice (in 2006 and again in 2010 after the impact of global financial
crisis). The short listing of bidders was done in competitive and transparent manner with
no complaints filed. The borrower under the LPTAP managed to issue a comprehensive
draft ‘Request for Proposal’ and draft ‘Project Agreements’ to shortlisted bidders; is has
also maintained structured dialog with the short-listed bidders.

3. Evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the preparation and
   implementation of the operation, with special emphasis on lessons learned that
   may be helpful in the future;

The borrower’s involvement during preparation of the technical assistance was limited to
borrower’s limited experience with World Bank funded projects, World Bank
procurement procedures, and World Bank Safeguards policies relevant to the project.

The LPTAP was pioneering new procedures in financial management in Kosovo where
two financial management system had to respected the PISG procedures (later GoK/MF
procedures) and the World Bank FMR (that have also changed during the course of the
project).

Lessons learned:
   - The borrower should have a designated team during preparation of the of the
      project. Such team should have proper training in World Bank’s complex

                                           36
       procedures it has to follow during project preparation (including safeguards and
       relevant prior rounds of public consultations);
   -   The borrower should lead the preparation of the project i.e. defining scope of the
       project, project objectives and goals;
   -   The Operations Manual or Guidelines should be tested for functionality prior
       approval;
   -   Clear project tailored financial reporting templates should be part of guidelines
       with proper training provided;
   -   Clear role of all involved stakeholders, including donors and their coordination;

4. Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, any cofinanciers, or of other
   partners during the preparation and implementation of the operation, including
   the effectiveness of their relationships, with special emphasis on lessons learned;

Based on Government opinion the performance of the Bank on the project preparation
and implementation of LPTAP, despite the changing’s of the scope of work during the
implementation phase and resulting with changing of the advisors contracts, is
satisfactory. The project objectives have been completed, with exception of the tasks that
where outside of Banks or Borrowers control.

Lessons learned:

   -   Support from international donors and a consensus and good understanding from
       all stake holders, because of the complexity of the Project, is needed;
   -   Organisation of PR in regular basis describing the project problems and
       proclaiming transparency;
   -   More interactive discussion with bidders during all phases of transaction duration;
   -   Direct communication with Investment Banks and EPC contractors;
   -   Overall public information strategy for the Project to be developed and published;

5. Description of the proposed arrangements for future operation of the project.

The construction of new generation capacities based on domestic fuel lignite,
refurbishment of the existing Kosovo B plant and decommissioning of Kosovo A are the
Government of Kosovo aims for security of supply and meeting EU environmental
standards. The security of supply as described in the Energy Strategy 2009-2018 are
reflected and confirmed at World Bank document, Development and Evaluation of Power
Supply Options for Kosovo.

The Government of Kosova and the Ministry of Economic Development, acknowledging
the importance of this project, continues the implementation of the Project based on the
transparent and public decisions of the Project Steering Committee that will be taken as
necessary.

Ongoing is the implementation for the Air Quality Monitoring Stations



                                            37
During the implementation of the Kosova e Re transaction Government of Kosova and
the Project Steering Committee will closely cooperate and coordinate future steeps with
the World Bank, especially on the Partial Risk Guarantee based on the statement offered
by the World Bank and on the new Kosovo Country Partnership Strategy for FY12-15.




                                          38
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Editorial comments, data inputs and suggestions were received from EC and USAID as
mark-ups on the document and have been suitably incorporated in the final version of the
ICR.




                                           39
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

    1.  Energy Strategy of the Republic of Kosovo (2009-2018), September 2009.
    2.  Draft Request for Proposals for the Kosovo e Re Project, issued 10 August 2010.
    3.  Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment, ERM Italia, 2008.
    4.  Regional Balkans Infrastructure Study—Electricity (REBIS) and Generation
        Investment       Study     (GIS),     prepared    by       PwC      Consortium
        (PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Atkins International plc, MWH), 31 December
        2004, updated 2007.
    5. Association Grant in the Amount of SDR 5.8 million (US$ 8.5 million
        equivalent) to the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo for
        the Benefit of Kosovo for a Lignite Power Technical Assistance Project, World
        Bank, September 2006.
    6. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed International Development
        Association Grant in the Amount of SDR 5.8 million (US$ 8.5 million
        equivalent) to the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo for
        the Benefit of Kosovo for Lignite Power Technical Assistance Project, World
        Bank, September 2006.
    7. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed International Development
        Association Additional Financing Grant in the Amount of SDR 1.4million
        (US$ 2.0 million equivalent) to the United Nations Interim Administration
        Mission in Kosovo for the Benefit of Kosovo for Lignite Power Technical
        Assistance Project, World Bank, June 2007.
    8. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed International Development
        Association Grant in the Amount of SDR 3.8 million (US$ 5.5 million
        equivalent) to the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo for
        the Benefit of Kosovo for an Energy Sector Clean-up and Land Reclamation
        Project, World Bank, May 2006.
    9. Studies to support the development of new generation capacities and related
        transmission—Kosovo UNMIK, prepared by Pöyry Consortium (Pöyry, Cesi,
        Terna, and Decon), August 2007.
    10. Kosova “B? Investment Requirements and Rehabilitation Feasibility Study (PA
        Government Services for USAID, August 2010).
    11. Preparation of      Scoping Statement for Environmental Assessment for
        Rehabilitation of Thermal Power Plant Kosovo B (USAID/Kosovo, Economical
        Growth Office, April 2010)
    12. Improvement of District Heating in Kosovo (KfW, February 2009).
    13. Development and Climate Change, A Strategic Framework for the World Bank
        Group. (Technical Report, World Bank Group, January 2009).
    14. Criteria for Screening of Coal Projects under the Strategic Framework for
        Development and Climate Change (Operational Guidance for World Bank
        Group Staff, March 2010).
    15. Generation Sizing in View of the Technical and Commercial Requirements of
        the Kosovo Power System (KOSTT, February 2010).




                                         40
    16. Generation Planning and Unit Sizing, prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff and
        PricewaterhouseCoopers, March 2010, and Unit Sizing, prepared by Parsons
        Brinckerhoff and PricewaterhouseCoopers, April 2010.
    17. MEM Report on Energy Efficiency. November 2007. Update May 2008.
    18. Prefeasibility Study for Identification of Small Hydro Power Plant in Kosovo.
        Albanian Association of Energy and Environment for Sustainable Development.
        May 2006.
    19. Energy Regulatory Office of Kosovo: Annual Reports 2009 and 2010.
    20. Equipment Required for the Opening of Sibovc South West Mine.
        Recommendations for the Government (USAID, May 2008).
    21. Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project I, II and III Study (World Bank
        Group, 2002-2005).
    22. Private Sector Participation in Kosovo Power Distribution – Key Issues Report.
        International Finance Corporation. February 2010
    23. Kosovo Energy Strategy - Management Briefing Note (November 2009)
    24. Kosovo Energy Sector Public Expenditure Review (December 2009).
    25. Kosovo Lignite Power Initiative – Economic Analysis. 2006.
    26. Feasibility study of converting Kosovo B into combined heat and power plant,
        KfW (June 2011)
    27. Water Security for Central Kosovo - Iber River Basin and Iber Lepenc Water
        System. Water resources, water demands and program of measures towards
        water security. Draft Final Report. SCE, March 2011.
    28. Water Supply from the Iber Lepenc Hydro System for the Proposed Kosovo C
        Power Plant. Evaluation of the hydro system and water availability assessment.
        Pre-feasibility Study, BCEOM Consortium, 2008.

General

    29. Developing a Sustainable Energy Sector for Kosovo – A Sector Policy Note
        prepared for the Donors’ Conference, Brussels, July 11, 2008 (World Bank,
        June 30, 2008)
    30. Kosovo Public Expenditure Review (World Bank, 2010)
    31. Kosovo Economic Memorandum of 2004 (World Bank, 2004)
    32. Kosovo Country Economic Memorandum (World Bank, 2009)
    33. Exploratory Study on EITI Feasibility in Kosovo (DFID, February 2006)
    34. Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment (ERM Italia, June 2008)
    35. Kosovo: Kosovo Power Project. Report of the SFDCC External Expert Panel to
        the World Bank (January 2012)
    36. Interim Strategy Note for Kosovo for FY06-07 (World Bank, 2005).
    37. Kosovo Country Partnership Strategy FY12-15 (World Bank, 2012)




                                         41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 37048R



                                                                                                                    KOSOVO
                                                              KOMUNA/OPŠTINA CAPITALS*                                                                              MAIN ROADS

                                                              RRETH/OKRUG CAPITALS**                                                                                RAILROADS

                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                      KOMUNA/OPŠTINA BOUNDARIES

                                                              RIVERS                                                                                                RRETH/OKRUG BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                 * The first name is in Albanian and the second one is in Serbian.
                                                 ** Names of the Rreth/Okrug are the same as their capitals.

  20°00’ E                                                     20°30’ E                                To                                             21°00’ E                                                            21°30’ E




                                                                                               Ibar
                                                                                                      Raška
  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                   0       5              10           20 Kilometers
  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0                           10                      20 Miles




                                         IA
                                  S ER B I A
                                                                                                                              Iba
                                                                                                                                       Leposaviq/


                                                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                       Leposavic
                                                                                                                                       Leposavic
                                                                                                                                               ´

                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                             Prokuplje             SERBIA
 43°00’ N                                              To                                                        MITROVICA                                                                                                                                43°00’ N
                                                     Novi
                                                                                                            KOSOVASKA MITROVICA




                                                                                                                                                                               Lab
                                                     Pazar

                                                                                                                                       Zveçan/
                                                                                     Zubin Potok/                  Ibar
                                                                                                                                       Zvecan
                                                                                                                                          ˇ                                            Podujevë/
                                                                                                                                                                                       Podujevë/
                                                                                      Zubin Potok                                                                                      Podujevo
                                                                                                                                              Mitrovicë/
                                                                                                                                              Mitrovicë/
   MONTENEGRO                                                                                                                                 Mitrovica
                                                                                                                   Kl




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Reka
                                                                                                                    ina




                                                                                                                                                                                                           rska
                     To                                                                                                                                 Vushtrri/




                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tula
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
           H       Berane
                                                o r                                                                                                     Vucitrn
                                                                                                                                                          ˇ                                                                  Leskovac
               a
                   j l                    o d g                      Istog/
                                        P
                                                                                                                                                         Sit




                       a                                             Istok
                                                                                                                                                                                     PRISHTINË
                                                                                                                                                           nic
                                                                                                                                                            a




                                                                                                            Skenderaj/
                                                                                                                Srbica
                                                                                                                                                                                      PRIŠTINA
                                                                                                                                                                     Obiliq/
                                                          PEJA                                                                                                       Obili ´
                                                                                                                                                                     Obilic          PRISHTIN
                                                                                                                                                                                     PRISHTINË
                                  Pejë
                                     ´
                                   Pec                    PEC´                                                                                     Fushë Kosova/
                                                                                                                                                   Fushë
                                                                                                                                                                                     PRIŠTINA
                                                                                                                              Drenas/                Kosovo Polje                            Gr
                                                                                                           Klina                                                                               ac                  Novobërdë/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Novobërdë/
                                                                                             Klinë/
                                                                                             Klinë/                          Glogovac                                                              an
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ka            Novo Brdo
                                                                                             Klina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kamenicë/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kamenicë/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kamenica
                                                                                 Beli Drim




                                                                                                                                                                    Sit




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GJILANI
                                                                                                                                                                     nic




                               Deçan/
                                                                                                                                                                       a




                               Decani
                                 ˇ                                                           Miruša                                                                          Lipjan/
                                                                                                                                                 Dr




                    Daravica
                                                                                                                                                                             Lipljan                                    GNJILANE Binacka
                                                                                                                                                  eni




 42°30’ N           (2656 m)                                                                                                                                                                                                                              42°30’ N
                                                                                                                                                   ca




                                                                                                                          Malishevë/
                                                                                                                          Malishevë/
                                                                                                                          Mališevo                                                                                            Gjilan/
                                               G J A K O VA                                                                                                       Shtime/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Gnjilane                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bujanovac
                                               ?AKOVICA                            Rahoveci/
                                                                                   Orahovac
                                                                                                                                                                  Štimlje
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ka
                                            Gjakovë/
                                            Gjakovë/                                                                                                                                                              Bin
                                                                                                                                                                                Ferizaj/
                                            ?akovica                                                                                  Theranda/                                 Uroševac
                                                                                                                               ga
                                                                                                                          Toplu       Suva Reka
                                                                                                                                                                 FE RIZAJI
                                                                                                                                                                 FERIZAJI                                 Viti/
                                                                                             Beli                   PRIZRENI                                                                              Vitina

                    A L B ANI
                    ALB   AN IA
                              A
                                                                                                    Drim
                                                                                                                                                                 URO ŠE VAC
                                                                                                                                                                 UROŠEVAC
                                                                                                                    PRIZREN
                                                                                                                                                                 Shtërpcë/
                                                                                                                                                                 Shtërpcë/                   Kaçanik/
                                                                                                                                                                 Štrpce                      Kacanik
                                                                                                                                                                                               ˇ
                                                                                                                      Prizren/
                                                                                                                      Prizren
                                                                               hë
                                                                            rd
                                                                      i   Ba
                                                                  ini
                                                                                                                                      Bi




                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                Dr
                                                                                                                                         st
                                                                                                                                        ric




                                                                                                                                                                    Tetovo
                                                                                                                                            a




                                                                      To
                                                                     Kukës
                                                                     Kukës
                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                                               nin
                                                                                                           Dragash/
                                                                                                           Dragaš           la
                                                                                                                       P




                   KOSOVO                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                   Šar




 42°00’ N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 42°00’ N
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Skopje



                                                                                                                                                                               FY R O F
                                                                                                                                                                             MA CEDO
                                                                                                                                                                                CEDONINIA
                                                                                                                                                                                        A

20°00’ E                                                     20°30’ E                                                                                 21°00’ E                                                             21°30’ E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MAY 2012
