RESTRICTED
ILE      COPY                 Report No. P-663
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
TOELLISTAMISRAHASTO OY - INDUSTRIALIZATION FUND OF FINLAND LTD.
(THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT)
January 9, 1969



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECONIMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO TEOLLISTAMISRAHASTO OY - INDUSTRIALIZATION FUND OF FINLAND LTD.
FOR THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$22 million to
Teollistamisrahasto Oy - Industrialization Fund of Finland Ltd. (IFF).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.     The proposed loan would be the third to IFF, a private institution,
whose purpose is to assist the financing of private industrial enter-
prises and the growth of the capital market. As part of the reorganiza-
tion of IFF in September 1963, IFC subscribed to Fmk 502,000 of IFF's
ordinary shares, and the Bank made a loan of $7 million. A second Bank
loan of $14 million was made to IFF on July 20, 1965. This second Bank
loan had been fully committed to sub-projects by April 1968, although
$1.6 million remains to be disbursed.
3.     IFF requested a third Bank loan in June 1967, but at that time the
Bank felt unable for the time being to lend to the more developed countries.
However, the request was repeated in the spring of 1968 and, as the Bank by
then was ready to resume lending to Finland, a mission was sent in May
1968 to appraise IFFts position and prospects and concluded that its per-
formance and the outlook for its future operations justified further borrow-
ing from the Bank. Negotiations wqith IFF and the Finnish Government were
completed in December 1968. The negotiators for the Borrower were Dr.
Lassila, Managing Director of IFF, and Mr. Antson, Deputy Managing Director
of IFF; the negotiator for the Guarantor was Mr. Malinen, Counselor and
Charge d'Affaires of the Embassy of Finland.
L.     The following is a summary statement of Bank loans to Finland as
at November 30, 1968:



2-
Loan                                               Amount     Undisbursed
Number   Year        Borrower          Purpose     $ million    $ million
Fully disbursed loans         187.6
(less cancellations)
420 FI   1965   Teollistamisra-       Industrial      1h.0         1.6
hasto Oy              credit
L45 FI   1°66   Republic of Finland   Roads           20.0         1.9
Total (less cancellations)         221.6
of which has been repaid            80.0
to Bank and others
Total now outstanding              141.6
Amolunt sold               62.6
of which has been repaid  49.8      12.8
Total now held by Bank             128.8
Total undisbursed                                3.5
5.     In addition to its shareholding in IFF, IFC has an investment, made
in February 1965, in Huhtamaki-Yhtyma Oy, a company manufacturing pharma-
ceuticals; IFC's total investment included a loan of approximately US$700,000
(now fully repaid) and an equity participation of about US$100,000. This
investmen-t was a joint operation with IFF. The Bank is considering a loan
for a third highway project; negotiations are expected to take place in the
last quarter of the calendar year 1969.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
6.     Borrower:           Teollistamisrahasto Oy - Industrialization Fund
of Finland Ltd. (IFF)
Guarantor:          Republic of Finland
Amount:             The equivalent in various currencies of $22
million
Purpose:            To assist IFF in providing finance to private
industrial enterprises in Finland



- 3 -
Amortization:       In 17 years including a 2 year period of grace,
through semi-annual installments beginning on
March 1, 1971 and ending on March 1, 1986. The
Bank would from time to time amend the amorti-
zation schedule to conform substantially to the
aggregate of the amortization schedules appli-
cable to the sub-loans and investments financed
from the proceeds of the proposed loan.
Interest Rate:      6.5 percent
Commitment Charge:  3/4 of 1 percent
PART III - APPRAISAL OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.     A report on the project entitled "Appraisal of Teollistamisrahasto
Oy - Industrialization Fund of Finland" (DB 43a) is attached (No. 1).
8.     To improve Finland's balance of payments position, industrial exports
should be substantially increased. As a consequence, there is a need for
developing the more dynamic industries, other than the traditional pulp
and paper industries, the rate of growth of which has lately been declining.
IFF's role in working toward this objective has been, and will continue to
be, vitally important.
9.     IFF is an independent financial institution to assist the financing
of private industrial enterprises and the growth of the capital market.
Established in 195h, it was reorganized in 1963, in collaboration with the
Bank and IFC, as an investment corporation capable of attaining an adequate
return on equity, attracting new capital and providing direct financing to
industries. IFF has now become a well-established institution with a com-
petent management and efficient staff, which carries out its operations in
accordance with sound policies. Profitability is moderate but has improved
since the 1963 reorganization and the earnings on A and B shares plus
reserves are expected to be equivalent to approximately 5-6 percent during
the next three years.
10.    IFF's level of activity has reflected the general level of industrial
investment in Finland. Approvals of new loans and investments increased
from Fmk 35.2 million in 1964, IFF's first full year of operation, to Fmk
41.3 million in 1967, with a drop to about Fmk 30 million in 1966, a period
of decline of exports and retrenchment policy of the Government. IFF's
commitments in 1968 are believed to have reached about Fmk 88 million.
Applications to IFF for loans increased sharply following the devaluation
of the Finnish markka and associated stabilization measures which induced
a resumption of economic growth. Operations in 1969 are expected to be at
about the same level as 1968, while increases of about Fmk 5-10 million per
year are forecast for the following three years.



11.    Loans will continue to be IFF's principal activity, but IFF expects
gradually to increase its equity investment to about 10 percent of its
total commitments by 1972. Various proposals aiming at eliminating the
regulations and practices which have hindered the development of the
capital market are being discussed by the Government. In particular, a
new law on the taxation of business income will become effective at the
beginning of 1969, and is expected to make equity investments more attrac-
tive than in the past.
12.    The proposed Bank loan of $22 million would enable IFF to meet about
half of its expected requirements for additional funds in 1969 and 1970,
when total commitments are expected to be Fmk 85 million and 90 million res-
pectively. IFF's available resources were fully committed by the end of
April 1968, and it has since been making efforts to raise additional funds
both in Finland and abroad. Its efforts to raise funds in London, New York
and Germany were not successful; however, IFF has been successful in Finland
and has made arrangements since April 1968 with its shareholding financial
institutions and the Government to raise Fmk 122 million in the form of
debentures and loans. The Bank is satisfied that these additional resources,
together with its internally generated funds, will enable IFF to continue
its operations on a sound financial basis and ensure full commitment of the
proposed Bank loan. As the proposed loan nears full commitment, the Bank
expects to consider a fourth loan to IFF; however, at that time, we would
expect to further reduce the proportion of IFF's operations financed by
the Bank.
13.    It is proposed to continue the arrangement in the second loan whereby
the Bank finances a fixed percentage of IFF's disbursements on investment
projects which corresponds to the average foreign exchange component of
these projects. Experience with the second Bank loan has shown that the
average foreign exchange component of IFF's projects exceeds 50 percent.
The percentage of Bank financing has therefore been set at 50 percent for
the third loan. Consequently, for the loan as a whole the Bank would be
financing less than the foreign exchange costs of all the investment
projects in which it participated, although for some projects the Bank
would finance more than the foreign exchange costs and for others less.
The proposed loan would be available only for expenditures in respect of
which IFF entered into commitments after December 1, 1968, that is from
the time of negotiations.
1h.    The loan would have a fixed interest rate.   The limit of loans or
investments which could be made without the Bank's approval would be raised
from $250,000 to $750,000, reflecting the Bank's confidence in IFF's con-
duct of its affairs and the increase in the average size of its loans. As
in the previous loan, this limit applies to the total amount being lent by
IFF to a sub-borrower and not simply the portion being provided out of the
proceeds of Bank lending.



- 5 -
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUIIENTS
15.    The Draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Teollistamisrahasto
Oy - Industrialization Fund of Finland Ltd., the Draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Republic of Finland and the Bank and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
16.    Except for the provision referred to in paragraph 13 above under
which the Bank would finlance 50 percent of disbursements made by IFF
(Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement), the Draft Loan Agreement follows
substantially the pattern of recent loan agreements in respect of loans
to development finance companies.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
17.    An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Finland" (E.IA-1, dated November 7, 1968) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on November 18, 1968. The large investment requirements of the
Finnish economy cannot be financed exclusively out of domestic resources,
and consequently in the absence of sufficient foreign borrowing the country
would have to follow a financial policy that would inevitably slow down
grow,th below the country's potentialities and needs, in particular with
respect to employment requirements.  Because of Finland's special geogra-
phical and political position, and also the continued stringency in inter-
national capital markets, the prospects for raising sufficient amounts of
long term capital abroad remain severely limited. These circumstances
justify Bank lending to Finland. The report concludes that the Finnish
borrowing capacity remains substantial and that Finland is creditworthy
for the proposed lending to IFF.
PART VI - COMPLIAICE HITH THE ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
18.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply wzith the require-
ments of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMENDATION
19.    I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following reso-
lution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Teollistamisrahasto Oy - Industrialization
Fund of Finland Ltd. in an amount equivalent to US$22,000,000 to
be guaranteed by the Republic of Finland.



-6-
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Teollistamisrahasto Oy -
Ind-ustrialization Fund of Finland Ltd. to be guaranteed by the Republic
of Finland, in an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-two
million United States dollars (US$22,000,000), to mature on and prior to
March 1, 1986, to bear interest at the rate of six and one-half percent
(6-1/2%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as
shall be substantially in accordance wxith the terms and conditions set
forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Third Development Bank Project)
between the Bank and Teollistamisrahasto Oy - Industrialization Fund of
Finland Ltd. and the form of Guarantee Agreement (Third Development
Bank Projecti between the Republic of Finland and the Bank, which have
been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
January 9, 1969



