                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: ICR0000805




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                       (IDA-H2570)




                                           ON A

                                          GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 55.4 MILLION
                          (US$ 82 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO THE

                           CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC

                                           FOR A

    REENGAGEMENT AND INSTITUTION-BUILDING SUPPORT PROGRAM




                                       June 19, 2008




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 3
Central Africa Department 1
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective June 19, 2008)

                               Currency Unit = CFA francs
                                 1 CFAF = US$ 0.002362
                                   US$1 = 423.18 CFAF

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 ­ December 31


                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB:         African Development Bank
CAR:          Central African Republic
CEMAC:        Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa
CFAA:         Country Financial and Accountability Assessment
CFAF:         Currency of CEMAC
DPO:          Development Policy Operation
DRC:          Democratic Republic of Congo
ESPF:         Economic and Social Policy Framework
HIPC:         High indebted Poor Countries
HIV/AIDS:     Human Immunodeficiency Virus/ Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
JISN:         Joint Interim Strategy Note
JSAN:         Joint Staff Advisory Note
LICUS:        Low Income Countries Under Stress
MDG:          Millenium Development Goals
MDRI:         Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative
NPV:          Net Present Value
PRGF:         Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP:         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAG:          Quality Assurance Group
RIBSUP:       Reengagement and Institution Building Support Program
ROC:          Regional Operation Committee




      Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
     Country Director: Mary A. Barton-Dock
     Sector Manager: Jan Walliser
   Task Team Leader: Luc Razafimandimby
  ICR Primary Author: Jerome Chevallier

                      CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
REENGAGEMENT AND INSTITUTION-BUILDING SUPPORT PROGRAM


                                  CONTENTS




Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring

A. Basic Information

                                                                     CF-Development
                       Central African
Country:                                       Program Name:         Policy Operation DPO
                       Republic
                                                                     FY07
Program ID:            P102576                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-H2570
ICR Date:              06/20/2008              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     CENTRAL AFRICAN
Lending Instrument:    DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                     REPUBLIC
Original Total
                       XDR 55.4M               Disbursed Amount:     XDR 55.4M
Commitment:
Implementing Agencies:
CTP-PAS
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/12/2006     Effectiveness:        11/28/2006       11/28/2006
Appraisal:             10/16/2006    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              11/28/2006    Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:              11/30/2007       11/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   High
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:            Satisfactory      Government:                Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:      Satisfactory      Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:           Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:                 Satisfactory      Performance:               Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance             Indicators              (if any)              Rating:

Potential Problem        No                    Quality at Entry     Moderately Satisfactory



                                               i

Program at any time                            (QEA):
(Yes/No):
Problem Program at any                         Quality of
                          No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                              60                60
Forestry                                                        5                 5
Law and justice                                                 5                 5
Mining and other extractive                                    25                25
Telecommunications                                              5                 5


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                     Secondary
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                    Primary           Primary
Macroeconomic management                                     Primary
Other accountability/anti-corruption                        Secondary         Secondary
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                             Primary
procurement


E. Bank Staff
       Positions                       At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili       Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:         Mary A. Barton-Dock              Ali Mahmoud Khadr
Sector Manager:           Jan Walliser                     Yvonne M. Tsikata
Program Team Leader:      Luc Razafimandimby               Gilles B. Alfandari
ICR Team Leader:          Luc Razafimandimby
ICR Primary Author:       Jerome F. Chevallier



F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
This first Development Policy Operation supports the implementation of the
Government's interim strategy (ESPF). It focuses mainly on (i) public finance
management and, (ii) improving business climate. On public finance management, the


                                              ii

DPO assists the Government in developing key public finance and payroll management
systems that will help raise domestic revenue, strengthen Treasury's control over
expenditures, and ensure timely payment of public wages and utility consumption. On
business climate, the DPO assists the Government in promoting private investment,
including the mining sector.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target    Formally   Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from      Revised   Achieved at
                                               approval        Target   Completion or
                                              documents)       Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Non-wage expenditures management
                                          a) Effective
                                          tracking of
                 a) Poor budget           expenditures in
                 discipline due to a lack place and a
                 of proper accountability restricted number

Value            and oversight            of cash advances

(quantitative or mechanisms at the level are supported by

Qualitative)     of the budget and        proper
                 treasury departments     documentation

                 b) Weak public           b) Adoption of a
                 procurement system       procurement
                                          system satisfactory
                                          to IDA
Date achieved    11/30/2006               11/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :    Wage bill management
                                          Accurate wage
Value            Non-reliable wage bill   bills supported by
(quantitative or as a result of poor data reliable data and
Qualitative)     and a lack of control
                 mechanisms               control
                                          mechanisms
Date achieved    11/30/2006               11/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :    Transparency and accountability in the mining sector
Value            Investment agreements Revision of the



                                               iii

(quantitative or negotiated on a case-  mining code or the
Qualitative)     by-case basis          standard
                                        investment
                                        agreement under
                                        way to bring it at
                                        par with
                                        international
                                        standard
Date achieved    11/30/2006             11/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :    Revenue mobilization

Value            Poor reconciliation of Improved tracking

(quantitative or customs data and loose and collection

Qualitative)     management of          systems of tax
                 domestic tax           revenue
Date achieved    11/30/2006             11/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :    Utility companies management
                 Poor accounting of     Balance settled
Value            cross-liabilities      and the
(quantitative or between utility        Government is
Qualitative)     companies and the
                 treasury resulting in  current on its

                 accumulation of arrearsutility bills

Date achieved    11/30/2006             11/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target   Formally     Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value        Values (from                 Achieved at
                                              approval      Revised    Completion or
                                            documents)    Target Values Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Primary balance
                                        A satisfactory
                                        PRGF program #

Value            An IMF EPCA is in      Primary balance of

(quantitative or place in a context     1,5% of GDP

Qualitative)     marked by a negative   supported by
                 primary balance        increasing tax
                                        revenue in line
                                        with the PRGF


                                              iv

                                      target
Date achieved   12/30/2005            11/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                       Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived            DO                       IP             Disbursements
                                                                    (USD millions)
  1     06/15/2007  Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory         80.28
  2     02/21/2008  Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory         83.33



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                           v

Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

Context at appraisal
The Central African Republic (CAR) has a long history of poor governance, political
instability and periods of armed conflict. Multiparty elections in 1993 were followed by a
decade of ethnic polarization and political tension, with army mutinies in 1996-97 and a
failed military coup in 2001, which all led to widespread looting and killing. In March
2003, General Bozizé overthrew President Patassé and established a transitional
Government. A new Constitution was adopted via a referendum in 2004. Parliamentary
and Presidential elections, which were broadly considered as free and fair by
international observers, were held peacefully in March and May 2005. Francois Bozizé
was elected President after a run-off contest. The new Government formed in July 2005
has shown commitment to economic reform, as a way to break the vicious circle of
deteriorating social indicators, ineffective and bankrupt government and armed conflict.

Despite the completion of the transition to democracy, the security situation has remained
fragile, with rebel groups active in the North along the borders with Chad and Sudan, and
highway banditry on the main access road to the ocean, via Cameroon. The defense and
security forces have been unable to ensuring security within the country. Efforts to
restore security have been supported by the United Nations for Consolidation of the
Peace in Central Africa, France. A regional force, contributed by neighboring countries
and financed by the European Union.

CAR's economic performance has been poor over much of the past decade. Per capita
income has declined markedly from about US$495 in 1990 to about US$350 in 2005.
Real GDP growth was negative in 2002 and 2003, due to insecurity. A modest recovery
was achieved in 2004 and 2005, mostly in the forestry and mining sectors. Major exports
were timber (47 percent) and diamonds (40 percent). Traditional exports of coffee and
cotton have almost disappeared. The business climate was poor, with CAR ranked 167
out of 175 countries in the ease of doing business.

CAR's fiscal situation has consistently been severely constrained. Low revenue
mobilization of about 7 percent of GDP, coupled with poor expenditure management, has
led to chronic budget deficits. The primary balance was negative at -3.6 percent in 2005.
With external financing drying up in recent years, the deficits have been increasingly
financed by arrear accumulation, internally and externally. Contrary to the other countries
in the Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa (CEMAC), the devaluation
of the CFA Franc in 1994 did not give CAR's economy a boost. The balance of payments
has remained in deficit throughout the past decade, financed by the accumulation of
external arrears, in turn compounding macroeconomic imbalances. In 2005, CAR was in
a situation of debt distress: total external debt was about US$1.07 billion (about 107
percent of GDP), including arrears amounting to US$328 million, of which US$102
million owed to multilateral creditors (including US$40 million to IDA). At end-2005,
the net present value (NPV) of the debt to exports was estimated at 538 percent of
exports, significantly above all sustainability thresholds. Domestic debt, including
arrears, reached a high level of 35 percent of GDP at end-2005. For all practical purposes,


                                                                                         1

public utilities were bankrupt. For lack of cash flow the services they provided to their
customers was most frequently interrupted. Governance in the mining and forestry sector
was poor, with concessions granted in a non transparent way and upfront payments made,
which were neither commensurate with the expected flow of benefits nor properly
recorded.

Progress towards a full Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) following the
preparation of an Interim PRSP in 2001 was delayed by the outbreak of the conflict. To
address the most urgent needs of the post conflict transition, the new Government
prepared an 18-month transitional Economic and Social Policy Framework (ESPF), the
priority areas of which were: (i) the reinforcement of security and consolidation of peace;
(ii) institution building and governance reform; (iii) macroeconomic stabilization and the
promotion of economic growth; and (iv) access of the population to essential social
services and infrastructure. The ESPF was followed by a full PRSP finalized and
presented to the donors in October 2007.

The operation under review - the Reengagement and Institution Building Support
Program (RIBSUP) - was a one-year operation designed to set the stage for a meaningful
reengagement of the international financial institutions and help CAR break the vicious
circle mentioned in paragraph 1 above. Without the reengagement of the donor
community and a significant increase in external assistance, there was a high risk that
CAR would be unable to improve the living conditions of its citizens, which in turn
would bring about renewed conflict. RIBSUP was the first IDA-financed operation since
CAR went into arrears in 2002. It was the central element of the Joint Interim Strategy
Note for FY07-08 (JISN), prepared with the African Development Bank (AfDB) and
reviewed by the Board in March 2007.

Original Program Development Objectives and Key Indicators
The objective of RIBSUP was to set the stage for a meaningful reengagement of the
donor community in CAR in a sustainable way by (i) helping to clear external arrears to
IDA and (ii) assisting the Central African Republic in addressing issues central to its
economic and social recovery underpinned by the ESPF. The operation was to renew the
policy dialogue and help resume support from key donors after normalizing financial
relationships with key multilateral creditors. The reform agenda supported by RIBSUP
supported pillars 2 (institution building and governance reform) and 3 (macroeconomic
stabilization and promotion of economic growth) of the ESPF and focused on (i)
restoring the key functions of State Planning, Execution and Control; and (ii) improving
governance. In this context, particular attention was paid to developing strategic
framework for policy planning, public finance, and payroll management systems. Equally
important were efforts to improve transparency and accountability, natural resource
management, and to promote private investment.

Revised Program Development Objectives. The objectives of the operation were not
revised

Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program



                                                                                      2

Under the first component - Restoring key functions of the State -, the operation
supported: (i) the adoption of a satisfactory results-based policy framework (ESPF) and a
satisfactory 2007 macroeconomic framework; (ii) public finance management reforms
aimed at increasing transparency of the Treasury's operations (through opening up the
Treasury Committee to donor-funded technical advisers, and the audit of the
Government's accounts for 2006 by an independent audit firm recruited by the Court of
Accounts); (iii) the strengthening of cash advances monitoring (reporting on cash
advances up to September 2006, and obligation made to beneficiaries of such advances to
justify the use of them); (iv) the integration of revenues retained by and advances to all
public agencies into the public accounts; (v) the audit of the one-stop customs office in
Douala; and (vi) the merging of the payroll and personnel records databases and
elimination of ghost workers.

Under the second component - Improving governance -, the operation supported: (i) the
creation of an operational financial branch of the judiciary; (ii) the clearance of arrears
due by holders of telecommunication licenses; (iii) the establishment of a panel of
international experts to give a written opinion on any proposed agreement in the mining
and energy sectors; (iv) the publication on the Government's website of a summary of all
mining agreements and of documents evidencing the transfer of amounts received in the
public accounts; (v) the adherence to the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
(EITI); and (vi) the publication of an order prohibiting special forest harvesting permits.

In addition to these prior actions, the Grant supported a number of follow-on actions and
triggers for a possible follow-up operation were proposed in the same policy areas. These
triggers and their status at the time of the ICR are discussed in the text and in Annex 1.

Revised policy areas. The policy areas were not modified.

Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

Program Performance
The Grant for an amount equivalent to US$82 million was disbursed in one tranche
following its approval and completion of general effectiveness conditions: 79.2 percent of
the amount went to pay for a bridge loan used to clear IDA's arrears; (ii) 12.5 percent
were put into escrow at the regional central bank to pay future debt services, at the
request of government (iii) and 8.3 percent went to budget support. Three ongoing
operations supported implementation of the reform program. A first Low Income
Countries Under Stress (LICUS) grant was approved in August 2004 to help CAR
prepare a full PRSP and initiate public finance management reforms. In October 2006 a
second LICUS grant was approved to further improve public finance management and
support service delivery in social sectors. Under the first component of the grant, support
was provided to help the Government upgrade its revenue collection system, strengthen
its public expenditure management, verify its domestic arrears, improve the management
of its civil service and reform its public procurement system. The grant financed also a
Mining Sector Assessment to provide the baseline information needed for the
Government to improve governance in the sector.



                                                                                        3

As also highlighted by the government's contribution to the ICR, the objective of the
operation was met. The RIBSUP Grant helped CAR repay its obligations to the bilateral
agency, which had extended a bridge loan to CAR to clear its arrears to IDA. The balance
of the Grant was intended to help CAR make its service payments to IDA during the
period leading to access to the High Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative, and
provide budget support equivalent to about one month of wage bill. Apart from the Bank,
other donors also reengaged in the CAR including the AfBD, the European commission,
and key bilateral donors who provided budget support in 2007. With respect to the Bank,
the clearance of arrears paved the way for IDA support to two new projects in FY07, the
CEMAC trade and transit project for US$24 million and the Emergency Urban
Infrastructure project for US$18 million. The ongoing HIV/AIDS project was
restructured to finance urgent social programs. In addition, intensive efforts by the
Government kept the reform agenda on track, improved country systems in general, and
led to enhanced macroeconomic performance and growth resumption. Progress under the
operation also helped complete the PRSP and enabled the CAR to reach the HIPC
decision point in September 2007. The IMF also completed a first review under its PRGF
in September 2007, and is scheduled to complete the second review of the PRGF by end-
June 2008. Finally, the operation also was instrumental in laying the ground for the
Bank's and AfDB's decision to process for follow-on budget support operations.

Major Factors Affecting Implementation
During the September 2006 Annual Meetings, the CAR delegation insisted on the
urgency of renewed support from the IMF and IDA, which was considered as crucial for
consolidating peace and security. The Government was most interested in the resumption
of support from multilateral institutions, which required that arrears owed to them be
settled first. The Government commitment to increased transparency was also
instrumental, notably those concerning Treasury operations and mining concessions.
Initial reluctance by ministries to full disclosure was eventually overcome by direct
involvement of the Prime Minister and the President.

The international security forces based in CAR helped the Government stop the advance
a rebel movement that overran several government garrisons in the North of the country
close to the border with Sudan. According to some observers, the attack was timed to
derail the Bretton Woods institutions' reengagement process in CAR. It had an opposite
effect, however, as the international community became even more aware that the
normalization of relations with the Bretton Woods institutions would contribute to
improving the prospects for peace consolidation in CAR.

The background analysis in the Program Document was adequate. The extremely difficult
conditions prevailing in CAR were well analyzed. It was clear that reversing the
economic decline of the past decade, rebuilding the core functions of the State and
improving the delivery of basic services to the population would take time and sustained
efforts supported by the international community.




                                                                                   4

Reengaging in CAR was risky but the risk analysis in the Program Document was
adequate. Four risks were identified, including a deterioration of the security situation, a
reversal in the political stabilization process, poor adherence to the macroeconomic
framework agreed with the IMF and the Bank, and continued weaknesses in financial
controls. With regard to the security risk, situation was fragile and could deteriorate
rapidly as a result of developments in three neighboring countries, Chad, Sudan and the
Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). A key element of risk mitigation was the capacity
of the international community to contain the spillover of a conflict in a country to the
next. The risk of political destabilization was important, as vested interests could derail
reforms aimed at improving governance, while benefits to the population from the
reengagement of the international community would not materialize rapidly. Participatory
consultations were considered as important to mitigate the second risk. The third risk,
inadequate macroeconomic management was to be mitigated through close monitoring by
the IMF and the Bank. The fiduciary risk was limited, as the bulk of the grant's proceeds
served to pay a bride loan and make future debt service payments to IDA during the
period up to the HIPC decision point. The Program Document did not discuss the fourth
risk related to the unpredictability of aid flows, which materialized.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The government agency in charge of monitoring the progress made by the Government is
the Technical Committee for Structural Adjustment Programs (CTP-PAS) in the Prime
Minister's office. It also coordinated the implementation of other development partners'
programs (IMF, AfDB, EC), which facilitated data collection and donor coordination.
The outcomes of the operation were process-oriented and did not require developed
statistical capacity. The CTP-PAS regularly organized meetings to assess the status of
implementation of the operation. In addition to the supervision missions, the Bank used
extensively the video-conferencing system to follow-up with the client, which allowed
for sustaining dialogue and providing rapid technical advice when necessary. The CTP-
PAS worked closely with a Bank resident adviser during the implementation of the prior
actions.

Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation
RIBSUP is a one-year operation. It was felt at the time of the preparation of the operation
that the challenges faced by the country were significant: security was a major risk and
poor public sector performance, including public finance and civil service management
were at a very initial stage. It was uncertain whether future development would be
conducive to the preparation of a continued policy dialogue. In any event, a set of
triggers was proposed for a second DPO to help sustain policy dialogue, the progress of
which has been monitored by the Bank. Eventually, significant progress has been made
and most of the triggers have been met or being finalized (Annex 1), providing evidence
of strong commitment of the Government to reforming the country's public sector and
economic governance. Building on the achievement under RIBSUP, the team prepared a
second operation which was approved by the Board on May 27, 2008. The objectives of
the new operation are to strengthen economic management and governance reforms
including (i) reforming public finance management to improve accounting, financial




                                                                                      5

transparency and accountability; and (ii) enhancing governance in the forestry and the
petroleum sectors, and intensifying the fight against corruption and transparency effort.

Assessment of Outcomes

Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The objectives of the operation are highly relevant today, as they were when it was
approved in November 2006. The operation's objectives were consistent with the
country's development priorities and with the Joint Interim Strategy Note prepared by the
Bank and AfDB. The diagnosis of the challenges facing CAR was adequate, and the
proposal to move ahead with an operation aimed at facilitating the reengagement of the
international financial community through arrears clearance was timely. Its emphasis on
restoring key functions of the State through strengthening public finance management,
and improving governance, particularly in the area of natural resource management, was
highly relevant, and remains a core element of program support to date.

Achievement -of Program Development Objectives
The original program document includes a largely process-oriented results-framework
using medium-term outcomes under the assumption that there would be subsequent
phases of the program. However, as RIBSUP was a one-year operation, the medium-term
results framework would not be able to measure well the one-year contribution of the
RIBSUB (through its closing date). The Government and the Bank team attempted to
address this mismatch by selecting key indicators to measure the progress made under the
operation as spelled out in the ISRs. The ICR builds on these indicators and uses an
extended results framework of intermediate outcomes in relation with the medium-term
objectives spelled out in the original program document.

Reengagement. External arrears had been cleared and the CAR is now fully reengaged
with international community as evidenced by the attainment of the HIPC decision point
in September 2007 and the sustained aid flow for the CAR with total external support
amounting to 13.1 percent of GDP in 2006 and to 4.1 percent of GDP in 20071. An
estimated amount of $US600 million had been pledged by the international community to
support CAR's development programs over the 2008-2010 period. The Bank approved a
second budget support operation on May 27, 2008. The operation was jointly prepared
with the AfDB with a Board presentation scheduled for July 2008. Coordination among
donors is being enhanced with the preparation of a joint Bank/AfDB Country Partnership
strategy and consultations among the main active donors in CAR to align their budget
support around the same themes derived from the PRSP.

Restoring the key functions of the State. The Government has made significant
progress in improving the strategic framework for policy and investment orientation. To
guide donors' intervention, the Government has adopted a transitional results-based
policy framework with prioritized outcomes in the areas of security, governance,


1The high percentage in 2006 is explained by the substantial amount provided to clear arrears to the Bank.
In 2007 the following donors provided budget support to the CAR: China (CFAF639 million) ­ France
(CFAF2,6 billion) ­ EC (CFAF2,7 billion) ­ AfDB (CFAF 7,1 billion) -


                                                                                                    6

economic recovery, infrastructure and social delivery. A full PRSP was approved by the
Cabinet in June 2007. The PRSP is the anchor of CAR's development strategy which
governs development partners' activities over the period 2008-10. The draft Joint Staff
Advisory Note (JSAN) presented to the Board on May 27, 2008, commends the
authorities for having successfully concluded a long participatory process. The
Government has completed vast consultations (Etats Generaux) which will form the basis
of sector strategies in security, rural development, and justice, thereby complementing the
PRSP policies in these sectors. As evidence of the effort made in establishing reliable
strategic framework, the 2008-budget had been prepared in consultation with the civil
society. It is aligned with the PRSP priorities. In addition, the Government has already
started preparing a Medium-Term Framework for the coming budget exercises.

The macroeconomic situation has improved markedly. The IMF is now moving to the
presentation of the second review of the PRGF program with a Board presentation
scheduled for June 18, 2008. The fiscal objectives of the Government have been achieved
(Table 1) with a positive domestic primary balance over the last two years (0.4 percent of
GDP in 2006- 1.1 percent of GDP in 2007 vs-3.6% of GDP in 2005), owing to fiscal
consolidation and an increase in tax revenues. In addition, the Government has not
accumulated salary arrears since the reengagement and salaries and wages have
decreased as a share of GDP since 2005. Following a sharp increase in 2006, inflation
(annual average) decreased significantly to reach 0.9 percent in 2007, which is well
below the regional level in the CEMAC countries, thanks to a sound monetary policy and
improved demand control, especially through better public expenditure management.
After years of decline, growth has picked up to about 4 percent in 2006 and 2007.

Significant progress has been made to date from a very low base to improve public
finance management. First, transparency and accountability in public financial
transactions have been enhanced. Measures include the centralization of cash advances
and cash-based payments following a ministerial note, requesting justification of the
intended use of public resources prior to renewal of cash advance request. In addition,
only cash-backed treasury checks are now authorized. The audit of the Treasury was
delayed for lack of funding, but has now been completed, the recommendations of which
are being implemented at the time of the ICR. Further effort has been made by the
Government through the implementation of the follow-on actions including the adoption
of new budget execution procedures tightening internal control and rationalizing
exceptional procedures as well as the disclosure of an audit of signature bonuses and
equity transfer in the mining sector from 2004 onwards. Finally, a line item not exceeding
10 percent of non-salary current expenditures has been created in the budget to account
for unexpected expenditures, the actual rate of which was 4.5 percent at the end of the
operation. Second, general accounting has been improved with the incorporation of 95
percent of revenues at the level of ministries and departments in the government accounts
and Treasury agents have been redeployed in twelve ministries to carry out revenue
withholdings. In addition, the Government used new budget nomenclatures for the 2008
budget and adopted new accounting nomenclatures in March 2008. Third, steps to
strengthen domestic revenue mobilization have been taken. An audit of the one-stop shop
in Douala had been completed and followed by an action plan of corrective measures that



                                                                                     7

the Government started to implement, including the phasing out of the pre clearance
office and the operationalization of ASYCUDA in Douala and Bangui. Further steps have
been taken by the Government with the implementation of the follow-on actions
including enhanced efforts to improve compliance and penalize defaulters through
regular audits and controls of large taxpayers which yielded positive results- five (5)
percent of the customs receipts in the first quarter of 2007 are accounted for by these
activities -, the planned upgrade of the tax database after the completion of a survey to
identify potential taxpayers in the first quarter of 2008, and the creation of cross-
connections between the tax and customs systems to merge both database.

Reforms of the civil service have progressed significantly under the operation. The
Government has established a unified payroll and personnel records database for civil
servants and military personnel, and has eliminated ghost workers from the payroll. The
Government did not accumulated salary arrears in 2007 and the weight of salaries in the
budget decreased from 5.5 percent of GDP in 2005 to 4.4 percent of GDP in 2007. In
addition, a new organizational chart for the reforms of the civil service has been adopted.

There was no prior action pertaining to public utility and procurement. While the
Government validated and published an action plan and adopted a new procurement
Code, the outcomes in public utility management have been mixed. Measures aimed at
settling the 2007 tax and utility bill in full between the central government and public
utility companies - ENERCA (electricity company), SODECA (water company) and
SOCATEL (telecommunications)-, initiating a census of their supply points to reduce
fraud, and the planned increase of their tariff rates have not been fulfilled with the
exception of the settlement of arrears with the electricity company ­ENERCA ­ and the
payment of half of the 2007-water bills. A large committee chaired by the Minister of
Finance has been created to resolve tax and bill payments. No further progress has been
made and the situation of the utility companies remains precarious with a high risk of
continued accumulation of arrears. It should be noted that timid measures have been
taken to reduce fraud. However, the results were meager. Redressing public utility
requires broader intervention and, thus, greater investment.




                                                                                      8

Table 1: Selected Main Economic Indicators (2003-07)
% of GDP, unless mentioned              2003       2004       2005        2006         2007
                                                         Actual     Estimates
GDP (CFAF bn)                           662.1      670.7     712.1       772.2         820.6
Real GDP growth                          -7.6        1.0        2.4         4.0          4.2
Real GDP per capita                      -9.6       -1.0        0.4         2.0          2.2
Inflation (annual average)                4.4       -2.2        2.9         6.7          0.9
Gross investment                            -        6.2        8.9         9.2          8.9
 o/w private investment                              4.1        4.9         5.6          6.2
Public Finance
Total revenue                             9.3       11.7      12.3        22.8         14.3
   Tax revenue                            6.5        7.2        7.1         7.8          8.0
   Grants                                 1.5        3.4        4.1       13.3           4.1
Expenditures                            12.3        13.9      16.9        13.9         12.7
        o/w salary                        4.7        5.8        5.5         4.8          4.4
        Interest due                      1.2        1.3        0.9         0.9          1.2
Primary balance (excl grants)            -2.1       -2.8       -3.6         0.4          1.1
Fiscal balance (excl grants)             -4.6       -5.6       -8.7        -4.4         -2.5
External sector
Current account balance                  -2.2       -1.8       -6.6        -2.7         -4.4
Overall balance                          -4.9       -2.9       -1.1         3.0         -3.3
NPV debt to export ratio                556.9      561.1     569.6       479.8         419.3
Source: IMF ­ May 2008.

Improving governance. The Government has made stronger anti-corruption effort to
increase transparency and accountability. Following the creation of an operational
financial branch of the judiciary to pursue financial crimes, handle special cases, and
ensure that fines are actually paid, seventy (70) cases have been investigated. Fulfillment
of the follow-on actions further strengthened government efforts in this arena with the
creation of the National Financial Investigation Agency which is now operational to
combat money laundering and the disclosure of government members' assets at the time
of entry into and exit from public service.

Several initiatives have been taken to improve natural resource management and protect
investors' rights, pointing to stepped-up effort to improve business environment and
greater transparency. Over the implementation period of the operation, foreign direct
investment has increased with two new operators in the telecommunications and the
mining sectors respectively, thereby supporting private investment and government's
revenues from the sector. Private investment increased from 4.9 percent of GDP in 2005
to 6.2 percent of GDP in 2007. In the telecommunications sector, the Government settled
arrears with the private sector within a Public Private Partnership framework; and a new
telecommunication law had been adopted after close consultation with private sector
operators in the last quarter of 2007. In mining, the Government disclosed information
pertaining to mining agreements, signature bonuses, and equity transfers. Several follow-
on actions are under way including the ongoing finalizing of the audit of the sector to
complement an action plan prepared by the Government in the first semester of 2007.
The results of the audit will inform the planned revision of the mining Code which will
for the basis of a standard investment agreement for new investors. Progress on the EITI
front is significant. The CAR has voluntarily adhered to the EITI. A national workshop
with the participation of all stakeholders took place in March 2008 to discuss the goals



                                                                                      9

and the implementation strategy of the EITI. A second workshop to validate the outcomes
of the first workshop and to create the EITI commitee will take place in mid-June 2008.
These reforms are also part of the HIPC triggers. In the forestry sector, governance has
been enhanced following the cancellation of special harvesting permits, the update of
regulations concerning the granting of exploitation permits guiding the bids launched in
2007 - two of these bids were cancelled by the government due to dubious processing of
the awarding of permits. Finally, the revision of the investment code to conform to the
CEMAC charter has also started.

Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
The operation has arguably achieved its objective. The international financial community
is fully reengaged in CAR. The objectives under the macroeconomic framework agreed
upon when the operation was approved have been met. While the challenges facing CAR
remain daunting, progress has been made in stabilizing the economy and resuming
growth. RIBSUP's prior actions aiming at improving the country systems in public
financial management, civil service, and public and economic governance have been
sustained and enhanced with first visible results. A number of follow-on actions (Annex
1) have been satisfactorily fulfilled as evidence of government's commitment to
reforming the key areas targeted by the operation. The rating is different from that of the
latest ISR which was drafted in November 2007. At that time, several measures of the
policy matrix in the program document have been under way and not finalized yet. Since
the last ISR, significant progress has been made in these areas. Despite some weaknesses
in some areas, notably public enterprise reform, the overall objectives have been achieved
and the rating is satisfactory.

Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The operation was not designed to directly alleviate poverty, address gender issues or
promote social development. Achievements under the operation need to be reinforced
through further reforms in public finance, governance and investment climate to generate
sustainable growth and create the fiscal space needed for social programs. The clearance
of arrears to international financial institutions has enabled them to resume their lending
activities in support of the Government's PRSP. The resources presently available are far
below what is needed to make significant progress towards the Millenium Development
Goals (MDGs), however.

Institutional Change/Strengthening
Thanks to the reengagement of the international financial community and the two LICUS
projects, the Government capacity for planning and public finance management has been
strengthened. CAR has been able to prepare a good PRSP within the expected time
frame. The PRSP will serve as a guiding tool for resource allocation. The two committees
in charge of steering the reform program and the PRSP process have been reinforced.




                                                                                     10

Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
The reengagement of the international financial community has contributed to
consolidate peace and security. In 2007, two rebel groups, UFDR and FDPC, signed
peace accords with the Government, which has indicated its intention to reinforce the
dialogue with opposition parties.

Section 4: Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
The operation was designed to help CAR clear its arrears and pay its debt service to IDA
in the period up to HIPC decision point. CAR has reached the HIPC decision point in
September 2007. Debt obligations will continue to be a significant source of outflows,
however, even during the transition period, as the recent reengagement of the
international financial community will substantially increase the debt service actually
paid by the country. Once the country reaches the HIPC completion point, it will become
eligible for additional debt relief through the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI).
In the interim period CAR may fall again into arrears, which would put a roadblock on
the path to fiscal sustainability and economic recovery.

Achievements in terms of improved management of public finance and governance are
fragile. A government under pressure or with different priorities might relax recent
efforts made and revert to the bad habits of the past. Social unrest due to the difficulties
encountered by the Government to pay the wage bill constitutes another risk. The security
situation could deteriorate, forcing the Government to increase public spending beyond
the amount allocated in the budget. All these risks are high.

Section 5: Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank Performance: Satisfactory
Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry. Satisfactory
QAG reviewed the quality at entry of the operation in August 2007. The review
concluded that there was no need to load the operation with a number of reforms and the
design of the operation should have been much simpler, the main purpose of the
operation being arrears clearance to IDA, thereby paving the way for reengaging the
Bank. A secondary objective was to help stabilize the situation in CAR by giving the
Government the means to pay the wage bill for a short period of time (one month). On
another note, the review found that accelerating the processing of the operation before the
approval of the Joint Interim Strategy Note prepared with AfDB led to a reversal of
nature and caused the Program Document for RIBSUP to be a confusing one, describing
a laundry list of development challenges, proposing a reengagement strategy and
developing a set of triggers for a follow-on operation2. QAG rated Bank inputs and
processes as moderately satisfactory for these reasons.




2The identification mission for RIBSUP took place in August 2006 and at the request of the CAR during
the Annual Meetings in September 2006, the President of the Bank agreed that the Bank would make every
effort to bring the proposed operation to the Board in November 2006. The Regional Operation Committee
(ROC) meeting took place on October 12, 2006.


                                                                                                11

However, the prior actions - against which disbursement took place - fulfilled were
focused on a few key areas key areas that were most critical for the medium/long-term
reengagement. It helped send strong signal to development partners that the
reengagement was based on serious policy dialogue and the Government was committed
to reforming the country. In addition, RIBSUP built on an agenda already developed
between the Government and the Bank. A first LICUS helped the transitional government
prepare an eighteen-month Economic and Social Policy Framework and initiate the
reforms in public finance management. The IMF also provided technical assistance in
public financial management and statistics. In addition, a substantial volume of analytical
work was carried out during preparation of the operation, including a procurement
review, an IFC's assessment of the business environment and a Country Financial and
Accounting Assessment (CFAA). For all these reasons and with the benefit of further
hindsight, the use of a medium-term policy re-engagement framework for RIBSUP that
transcended arrears clearance transactions has proven has the right approach for sustained
policy-based support.

The acceleration of the much needed arrears clearance proved to be instrumental in
boosting step at a crucial moment and speed up the reengagement of the international
financial community as the pre-requisites for policy dialogue had been established. The
Bank also mobilized its resources at all levels to help the country reengage. The Director
of Operations, Africa Region, led the negotiations, which were held at end October 2006;
in early November 2006, the Bank appointed a former Bank manager as acting resident
representative to ensure that prior actions would be met on time, more generally to
prepare the ground for a quick resumption of lending activities in CAR, and to make
detailed arrangements for a bilateral aid agency to provide a bridge loan, which was
repaid within less than twelve hours.

The approach was adequate and management input timely and critical, resulting in a
rating of satisfactory for quality at entry.

Bank supervision. Satisfactory
The Grant was declared effective on the same day it was approved. The first supervision
took place in March/April 2007. The team working on the operation changed during the
course of the year which led to a transitional period. An ISR was prepared in August
2007 and was followed by another mission in August/September 2007, after which a
second ISR was prepared. During this period, the team continued the dialogue with the
Government through video-conference sessions. As reported in the Aide-Memoires,
progress under the operation and the dialogue on the reforms addressed by the operation
started to take shape during the August/September mission. Another mission in
December 2007 to pursue the dialogue concluded that good progress had been made,
warranting the preparation of a follow-up operation.

Overall rating: Satisfactory.
The Bank helped CAR emerge from its non-accrual status and reengage with the
international financial community. Bank support has contributed to consolidate security
and political stability in a country emerging from a decade of internal conflicts and



                                                                                    12

economic decline. Improved stability in CAR is important for the seven countries
bordering it, most of which are fragile States. The Bank has also helped energize a reform
program centered on improving the management of public finance and of forestry and
mining assets, thereby reducing substantial fiscal leakages. Further support is required to
improve the business environment and allocate scarce resources to key infrastructure and
social programs.

Borrower Performance: Satisfactory
The Government played its role in accelerating implementation of a difficult set of policy
measures, prior to Board presentation. It has demonstrated that it was keen on making a
break with past practices, which contributed to the deterioration of economic and social
indicators and internal conflicts. Following Board approval of RIBSUP, the Government
moved decisively to initiate preparation of key projects proposed in the ISN. It
implemented the program supported by the IMF and took appropriate measures to ensure
that the PRSP would be prepared according to schedule. The Government has gone as far
as to the implementation and/or completion of the follow-on actions, which moved the
agenda in the targeted areas forward and allowed for the preparation of the second Bank
and AfDB budget support operation.

Lessons learned
The first lesson is that sometimes it pays to take a bold approach. Bank management
understood that accelerating the processing of the policy operation was crucial for
ensuring the success of its decision to reengage in CAR, despite a most challenging
environment. In so doing, it took the conscious decision to present the policy operation to
the Board before the interim strategy note. In such countries, the risks are often high, but
it was deemed that the risk of not doing the operation was greater than the risk of doing
it.

Poor governance is often at the root of internal conflicts. Improving governance through a
series of concrete actions showing that the Government is making a clear break with past
practices is a key component of a reengagement program.

When reengagement is initiated, a field presence is critical to ensure close coordination
among donors and help the Government take confidence-boosting measures on time.
Ensuring close supervision is also key. For instance, the first supervision mission visited
CAR in March 2007 and was followed by another mission in August 2007. For lack of
resources, it was difficult to field a mission earlier, which could have impacted on the
timing of the implementation of reforms.

Sustaining external financing support in post conflict countries is crucial for the success
of a reengagement program: (i) often reengagement program is vast and government's
capacity needs to be significantly enhanced to sustain the implementation of the reform
program, (ii) and dedicating part of the proceeds of the operation to debt services is also
crucial, especially for countries engaged in HIPC with renewed outlays for debt service
obligations. In the case of CAR, it has allowed for timely payment of external debt
services, which otherwise would have been more difficult. For instance, the CAR has



                                                                                     13

fallen temporary in arrears in January, March, and May 2008 due to the lack of budget
support during the first quarter of 2008.

Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower. The Borrower's assessment points to the
same conclusions as the ICR: (i) overall implementation is satisfactory. RIBSUP has
helped CAR reengage with the international community; (ii) in particular, improving
public expenditure and payroll management, and progress in the area of natural resources
helped improve the country systems and achieve encouraging economic performance;
(iii) unlike the other areas addressed in the DPO, there has been little progress in the area
of public utility management and the problems remain acute; and (iv) increased external
financing and enhanced coordination among donors are crucial for sustaining the CAR's
performance over the last two years and speeding up the attainment of the HIPC
completion point.




                                                                                      14

                              Annex 1. Matrix: CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC - POLICY MATRIX
                 GOVERNMENT REFORM PROGRAM: PRIORITY ACTIONS, TRIGGERS, OUTCOMES
                                                                           .
                                      Reform Program                              Status of measures and           Intermediate       Outcomes sought
                                                                                           progress              outcomes achieved
                  DPO Key Achievements           Key Achievements and                                            (November 2006-
                             and                Program Triggers (bold)                                              May 2008)
                    Prior Actions (bold)       (January­December 2007)
                 (January­December 2006)
                                       A.     Restoring the functions of State Planning, Execution and Control
A.1 Policy Framework Planning
                Adoption by government        The PRSP has been finalized.     Subsequent to the adoption       The PRSP is the       Coordination and
                and publication of a                                           and satisfactory                 anchor of CAR's       harmonization of
                transitional results-based    Adoption and publication of      implementation of a              development           development
                policy framework (DCPES       the government sectoral          transitional results-based       strategy which        partner actions
                and associated matrix) with   strategies on (i) reform of the  policy framework, the            .governs              around key
                prioritized outcomes in       security sector, (ii) reform of  Government finalized and         development           government
                security, governance,         the judiciary to enhance the     approved a full PRSP in June     partners' activities. priorities
                economic recovery,            rule of law, (iii) a government  2007 which was presented in a    Coordination among
                infrastructures and social    action plan for anti-corruption  national workshop in             donors is being
                service delivery              policies, as well as (iv) a      September 2007 and to the        enhanced with the
                                              medium-term strategy for         international community in       preparation of a
                                              rural development.               October 2007 in Brussels.        joint Bank/AfDB
                                                                                                                Country Partnership
                                                                               No sector strategies per se had  strategy The Bank
                                                                               been developed. However, key     and AfDB are
                                                                               steps had been taken and will    aligning their budget
                                                                               help refine the next PRSP: (i)   support around the
                                                                               the Etats Generaux of            same themes
                                                                               agriculture and justice were     derived from the
                                                                               completed and lay the            PRSP.
                                                                               foundation for future
                                                                               strategies; (ii) the authorities
                                                                               organized a four-day seminar
                                                                               on security sector reform in
                                                                               April 2008 to review the




                                                                                                                                                     15

                                    Reform Program                           Status of measures and         Intermediate       Outcomes sought
                                                                                      progress            outcomes achieved
                DPO Key Achievements           Key Achievements and                                       (November 2006-
                           and                Program Triggers (bold)                                         May 2008)
                   Prior Actions (bold)      (January­December 2007)
               (January­December 2006)
                                                                          country's security sector
                                                                          challenges, discuss concrete
                                                                          measures for reform, and
                                                                          establish short- and medium-
                                                                          term implementation
                                                                          timelines, involving
                                                                          representatives of CAR's
                                                                          security and justice services,
                                                                          government officials and
                                                                          members of civil society
Macroeconomic Adoption of a 2007            · Implementation of a         The IMF assessment of the      Reengagement.         Overall
Framework and macroeconomic framework       macroeconomic framework       2007 performance concluded     External arrears had  reengagement of
Budget        satisfactory to the IDA, in   for 2007 satisfactory to the  that overall, the              been cleared and      development
Preparation   particular as regards         IDA, with an increase in      macroeconomic performance      external financing is partners
              budgetary financing           domestic revenue and non-     is satisfactory.               sustained ( i) 2006:
              guarantees.                   accumulation of wage                                         13.3% of GDP and
                                            arrears.                                                     2007: 4.1% of GDP.
                                            · Establishment of national   Investment in the budget 2008  The Bank has          Improved
                                            investment programs           are based on the PRSP inputs   approved a second     macroeconomic
                                            consistent with the PRSP                                     budget support and    management
                                            goals                                                        that of the AfDB
                                            · Preparation of the 2008                                    will be presented to  Coherent
                                            budget from a reliable socio-                                their Board in July   medium-term
                                            economic database.                                           2008. The EC          budget outlook
                                                                                                         remains engaged in
                                                                                                         CAR under its
                                                                                                         2008-2010 program.

                                                                                                         Macroeconomic
                                                                                                         management. The
                                                                                                         IMF PRGF is on




                                                                                                                                         16

                  Reform Program                      Status of measures and     Intermediate       Outcomes sought
                                                             progress         outcomes achieved
DPO Key Achievements        Key Achievements and                               (November 2006-
         and                Program Triggers (bold)                                May 2008)
  Prior Actions (bold)     (January­December 2007)
(January­December 2006)
                                                                              track: (i) inflation
                                                                              has decreased from
                                                                              6.9 percent in 2006
                                                                              to 0.3 percent in
                                                                              2007; (ii) domestic
                                                                              primary balance has
                                                                              remained positive at
                                                                              1.1 percent of GDP
                                                                              thanks to improved
                                                                              tax revenues (7.1
                                                                              percent of GDP in
                                                                              2005, 7.8 percent of
                                                                              GDP in 2006, and 8
                                                                              percent of GDP in
                                                                              2007) and efficient
                                                                              fiscal consolidation

                                                                              Medium-term
                                                                              budget outlook.
                                                                              The 2008 budget
                                                                              had been prepared
                                                                              in consultation with
                                                                              the civil society and
                                                                              aligned with the
                                                                              PRSP priorities.
                                                                              The Government is
                                                                              preparing with
                                                                              technical assistance
                                                                              from UNDP a
                                                                              medium-term
                                                                              budget outlook. A




                                                                                                            17

                                      Reform Program                           Status of measures and            Intermediate        Outcomes sought
                                                                                       progress               outcomes achieved
                   DPO Key Achievements          Key Achievements and                                          (November 2006-
                             and                Program Triggers (bold)                                            May 2008)
                    Prior Actions (bold)       (January­December 2007)
                  (January­December 2006)
                                                                                                              committee has been
                                                                                                              created and
                                                                                                              procedural manuals
                                                                                                              are being prepared.
                                                                                                              In addition, several
                                                                                                              staff from the
                                                                                                              Ministry of Planning
                                                                                                              and sector ministries
                                                                                                              (infrastructure,
                                                                                                              education, health,
                                                                                                              and agriculture)
                                                                                                              have been trained
                                                                                                              abroad to
                                                                                                              conceptualize a
                                                                                                              MTEF for CAR.

A.2 Public Finance Management

Fund            · The Minister of Finance     · Program deemed to be        A Treasury committee has          Significant progress   Transparency and
Management      has increased the             satisfactory by the IDA       been set up and which             has been made to       accountability in
                transparency of the Public    insofar as the realization of commissioned an audit of the      lay the foundation     public financial
                Treasury: (i) by producing a  the corrective measures       treasury operations. The audit    for transparency and   transactions
                circular opening the          proposed by the Treasury's    started after the closing date of accountability in
                Treasury Committee to the     audit is concerned.           the operation due to lack of      public financial       The bulk of non-
                Councilors and Technical      · The public expenditure      financing that required a         transactions: (i) cash wage budget
                Assistants financed by        chain is strengthened as      restructuring of the LICUS II     advance and            spending is
                investors, and (ii) by        evidenced in the 2007         TF and has been submitted to      treasury checks are    executed in
                instructing the Revenue       financial year: (i) the       the Bank.                         controlled and         accordance with
                Court to recruit an           satisfactory application of                                     regulated; (ii) actual normal public
                independent auditing firm     the post-audit of the new     Measures to tighten the           expenditures are in    expenditure
                                                                            control on cash advances are      general executed in    procedures




                                                                                                                                                18

                        Reform Program                             Status of measures and            Intermediate       Outcomes sought
                                                                           progress              outcomes achieved
   DPO Key Achievements            Key Achievements and                                           (November 2006-
             and                  Program Triggers (bold)                                             May 2008)
     Prior Actions (bold)        (January­December 2007)
  (January­December 2006)
from now until 31 March         regulatory framework on         as follows: (i) Minister         accordance with the
2007 to perform a complete      control of cash advances, in    Delegate of finance is the sole  budget Law. New
financial and staff audit of    accordance with the             legal entity to authorize cash   budget execution
the Public Treasury for the     principles listed in the        advances, (ii) Cash advances     procedures
year 2006, in accordance        preceding action and (ii) the   are conditional to justification tightening internal
with the ToR satisfactory to    requirement to mandate all      of the use of any other prior    control and
the IDA.                        expenditure on goods and        cash advances; (iii) only cash-  rationalizing
                                services exceeding the 10%      backed treasury checks could     exceptional
Monitoring of cash advances     limit of the total amount       be issued; (v) an audit of the   procedures have
is reinforced by (i) the        provided for by the budget.     application of the measures is   been adopted and
publication by the Public       These unforeseen expenses       being carried out; (vi) line -   will be used for the
Treasury of a report deemed     shall be grouped with the       item not exceeding 10% of        2008 exercise; (iii) a
to be sufficiently transparent  common expenses.                expenditures in goods and        monthly cash-flow
by the IDA on the use of                                        services for unforeseen          plan reconciling
cash advances for the period                                    expenditures has been created.   banking (resources
January-September 2006                                          Actual rate was 4.5 percent as   available in the
September 2006 and                                              of August 2007.                  three commercial
proposing an action plan to                                                                      banks and the
reinforce monitoring of all     · The Cour des Comptes          The amount and use of            Regional Bank-
funds and revenue               submits an audit report to the  signature bonuses and equity     BEAC) and fiscal
collection, and (ii) the issue  President of the Republic on    transfer between 2004 and        records including
of a circular announcing        bonuses and transfer of capital 2007 in the mining sector has    receipts from
that all beneficiaries of       deriving from mining            been audited and disclosed.      customs, tax
advances must provide           agreements signed since 2004,   The Government will conduct      directorate, and the
written evidence justifying     as well as their use.           such a measure on an annual      branches of the
the use of public funds prior                                   basis                            Treasury is
to being eligible for new cash                                                                   produced on a
advances and that all non-      · Signature and publication by  New budget execution             monthly basis; and
reimbursed cash advances        the President of the decree     procedures were prepared and     (iv) financial data in
shall be deducted directly      pertaining to reform of the     adopted in March 2008.           the mining sector is
from salaries.                  execution procedures for                                         disclosed..




                                                                                                                                19

                                   Reform Program                           Status of measures and           Intermediate        Outcomes sought
                                                                                    progress              outcomes achieved
               DPO Key Achievements           Key Achievements and                                         (November 2006-
                          and                Program Triggers (bold)                                           May 2008)
                 Prior Actions (bold)       (January­December 2007)
              (January­December 2006)
                                           public expenditure, in
                                           accordance with the proposals
                                           of the GREBUC.

General      Signature and publication     The Treasury has              The Treasury has organized a
Accounting   by the President of an        incorporated within the 2007  weekly meeting to collect
             instruction integrating the   public accounts all revenues  revenues retained at the level
             state administration of       retained by and advances to   of MDAs. Expenditures items
             revenue, advances or any      MDA as well as all            have been audited by the IGE
             other resources or costs into expenditure items             and incorporated in the public
             the General State                                           accounts.
             Accounting Office.
                                           Publication of a government   New budget classifications
                                           decree pertaining to the      were used for the 2008
                                           adoption of a new budgetary   budget. New accounting
                                           and accounting                nomenclatures have been
                                           nomenclature and the use of   adopted
                                           such in the 2008 budget
                                           preparation.
Customs and · Audit of `Guichet Unique'    · The Government has          The audit of the one-stop shop   Domestic revenue       Effective and
Tax          in Douala initiated.          approved and begun            in Douala was completed.         mobilization is        integrated revenue
                                           implementing a custom         Based on the audit, the          being strengthened     administration
                                           reform program satisfactory   Government with EU               and the general        system put in
                                           to IDA that takes into        technical assistance carried     database is being      place; increase in
                                           account the                   out investigations to assess the harmonized. These      government
                                           recommendations of the one-   performance of the pre           reforms have started   revenues through
                                           stop-shop audit.              clearance office in Douala. An   to yield positive      an expansion of
                                           · Taxpayers have been         action plan has been validated   results: (i) five (5)  the tax and
                                           surveyed and registered,      by the Cabinet and the           percent of the         customs base;
                                           controls have been            Government started adopting      customs receipts in    improvement in
                                                                         measures to strengthen           the first quarter of   collection rates




                                                                                                                                            20

                               Reform Program                              Status of measures and          Intermediate        Outcomes sought
                                                                                   progress             outcomes achieved
              DPO Key Achievements        Key Achievements and                                           (November 2006-
                      and                Program Triggers (bold)                                            May 2008)
               Prior Actions (bold)     (January­December 2007)
             (January­December 2006)
                                       intensified to boost effective  customs administration,          2007 are accounted     and taxpayer
                                       revenue collection by the       including the phasing out of     for by these           compliance as
                                       Treasury, overdue taxpayers     the pre clearance office and     activities; (ii) tax   well as curtailed
                                       have been sent notification     the operationalization of        revenues increased     tax evasion and
                                       and accounts receivable         ASYCUDA in Douala and            from 7.1 percent to    fraud
                                       have been recorded.             Bangui.                          8 percent between
                                                                                                        2005 and 2007
                                                                       A survey had been conducted
                                                                       to include in the tax database
                                                                       all entities and individuals
                                                                       deemed subject to tax
                                                                       payment. The system is being
                                                                       updated and merged with the
                                                                       customs database.

                                                                       Efforts to improve compliance
                                                                       and penalize defaulters
                                                                       through regular audits and
                                                                       controls of large taxpayers
                                                                       have been enhanced.
Public                                 ·ENERCA, SODECA and             There has been no regular        Regular and full       Improved
Enterprise                             SOCATEL settle their 2007       payment of tax and utility       payment of utility     efficiency of
Management                             tax bill in full and initiate a bills. Through a cross-liability remains a major        SOEs. Renewed
                                       census of their supply points,  settlement mechanism, the        issue. Budget          interest in the area
                                       whereas the State settles its   government and ENERCA            allocation for utility of maintenance
                                       utility bills in full for the   settled the 2007 utility and tax consumption            and capacity-
                                       current year.                   bills; 2007 arrears for          remains low and        building of public
                                       · ENERCA, SODECA and            SODECA had been reduced          insufficient to meet   utilities
                                       SOCATEL increase their tariff   by half and those of             government
                                       rates and reduce fraud through  SOCATEL remain the same.         consumption. As a
                                                                       Increase in utility price has    result, the financial




                                                                                                                                           21

                                      Reform Program                             Status of measures and            Intermediate      Outcomes sought
                                                                                        progress               outcomes achieved
                    DPO Key Achievements         Key Achievements and                                           (November 2006-
                             and                Program Triggers (bold)                                             May 2008)
                      Prior Actions (bold)     (January­December 2007)
                    (January­December 2006)
                                              improved control of supply     been programmed to take           situation of utility
                                              points.                        place in 2008.                    companies remains
                                                                                                               precarious,
                                                                             A census of the supply points     undermining
                                                                             of public utility has started but maintenance and
                                                                             has not been completed which      service delivery.
                                                                             undermines the control of
                                                                             utility expenditures and
                                                                             creates room fraudulent or
                                                                             unregulated utility
                                                                             consumption.


Procurement                                   · Review of the public         Following the adoption of a       Existence of a
Contracts                                     procurement system is          new procurement strategy, a       regulatory
                                              published on the               companion action plan has         framework in
                                              government's Internet          been drafted and new              procurement
                                              website and its action plan    procurement Code was
                                              adopted by the Cabinet.        adopted by the Parliament in
                                                                             May 2008.
A3. State Personnel Management
                 · Effective merging of the   · Effective installation of a  A unified and integrated          Salaries and wages    Integrated payroll
                 payroll database and the     unified payroll management     payroll management had been       are being controlled  management
                 personnel records database   system for civil and military  developed. The system has         and fraud             systems for
                 and removal from the         personnel enabling one-time    been satisfactorily audited and   eliminated. As a      civilian and
                 unified database of ghost    payment of wages and           is fully operational              result, the weight of military staff will
                 workers                      salaries on the basis of a                                       salaries and wages    enable the
                                              secure database. The system                                      in the budget has     Government to
                                              is networked to facilitate                                       decreased (5.5 to 4.4 better conduct the
                                              budgetary control for                                            of GDP between        wage bill and to
                                                                                                               2005 in 2007) and     make more




                                                                                                                                                22

                                         Reform Program                              Status of measures and         Intermediate     Outcomes sought
                                                                                             progress            outcomes achieved
                   DPO Key Achievements             Key Achievements and                                          (November 2006-
                               and                 Program Triggers (bold)                                            May 2008)
                      Prior Actions (bold)        (January­December 2007)
                   (January­December 2006)
                                                 personnel employed.                                             there has been no   efficient
                                                                                                                 accumulation of     recruitment
                                                                                                                 salary arrears in   decisions. In the
                                                                                                                 2006 and 2007       medium term,
                                                 · Development of a general                                                          improved HR
                                                 organizational chart for the     A general organizational chart Key steps have been management
                                                 reform of the civil service.     was produced by the            taken to lay the    under a new civil
                                                                                  Government under the           foundation for the  service statute to
                                                                                  operation.                     medium/long-term    facilitate
                                                                                                                 reforms of civil    redeployment of
                                                                                                                 service             better-qualified
                                                                                                                                     staff into
                                                                                                                                     positions that are
                                                                                                                                     deemed to be
                                                                                                                                     higher-priority
B1 Transparency and Accountability
                 · Creation of an operational    · Adoption of a law on the       The members of the             Accountability of   Promotion of
                 financial branch of the         provisions for the annual        Government enforced the Law    the executives and  accountability at
                 judiciary. The branch           declaration of personal assets   at entry and exit. The         transparency are    all levels and
                 consists of: (i) a special unit in respect of politicians and    Government is also preparing   being strengthened. strengthening
                 responsible for pursuing        high-ranking civil servants.     with assistance from the Bank                      transparency
                 financial crimes and two        · National Financing             and UNDP new rules to
                 specialized case-handling       Investigation Agency (ANIF)      include high-ranking civil
                 units within the Bangui         is established and endowed       servants in the list those who
                 court, and (ii) a judicial      with necessary powers and        should abide by Law
                 officer in charge of            resources for fulfillment of its pertaining to the declaration
                 supervising public ministry     mandate.                         of assets of as part of the
                 and ensuring public ministry                                     HIPC CP triggers
                 and ensuring that fines are
                 actually paid.                  Significant increase of cases    The financial branch of the
                                                                                  judiciary is operational and




                                                                                                                                                 23

                                        Reform Program                           Status of measures and         Intermediate      Outcomes sought
                                                                                         progress            outcomes achieved
                   DPO Key Achievements            Key Achievements and                                       (November 2006-
                               and                Program Triggers (bold)                                         May 2008)
                      Prior Actions (bold)       (January­December 2007)
                   (January­December 2006)
                                                of suspected corruption under In addition; the ANIF was
                                                investigation and in the      created and endowed with
                                                number of penalties imposed.  resources in the 2008 budget.
                                                                              As a result, 70 suspected
                                                                              corruption cases involving 300
                                                                              individuals have been
                                                                              investigated.




B2. Observance of Investors' Rights
                 The Government has invited     · The cabinet submits to the  Arrears cleared following      The legal and        Improved
                 the holders of                 National Assembly a new       dialogue between operators     regulatory           business
                 telecommunication licenses     draft telecommunications law  and the State within a public  framework has been   environment,
                 to clear their arrears in      that reflects consensus       and private partnership        improved in          notably with
                 order to avoid suspension of   between the Government and    framework. A new               telecommunications.  respect to the
                 their licenses at the          private operators             telecommunications Code        Two new operators    resolution of
                 expiration of the cure period                                reflecting the dialogue        are now operating in disputes and fiscal
                                                                              between the private sector and telecommunications   transparency
                                                                              the Government has been        (ACEL-ORANGE).
                                                                              adopted by the National        Private investment
                                                                              Assembly                       increased from 4.9
                                                                                                             percent of GDP in
                                                · The investment code is      The investment Code has not    2005 to 6.2 percent  Private
                                                adapted to conform to         been revised pending revision  of GDP in 2007       investment grows
                                                CEMAC's Investment            of the CEMAC Investment                             as a result of
                                                Charter.                      Code. However, a national                           improved rule of
                                                                              Committee already started                           law and security
                                                                              working o the amendments of                         conditions in the
                                                                              the Code to include national                        country
                                                                              specificities.




                                                                                                                                              24

                                   Reform Program                          Status of measures and          Intermediate       Outcomes sought
                                                                                   progress             outcomes achieved
               DPO Key Achievements           Key Achievements and                                       (November 2006-
                         and                 Program Triggers (bold)                                         May 2008)
                 Prior Actions (bold)       (January­December 2007)
              (January­December 2006)
Mines and  · Ministerial order by the      · Adoption by the            An action plan for the mining   Significant progress  Increased private
Energy      Ministry in charge of mines    Government of an action      sector has been drafted by the  has been made in      investment in
            establishing a panel of        plan for the mining sector   Government in the first         the mining sector     terms of both
            international experts to give  inspired by the              semester of 2007. As of May     and helped send       number of
            a written advisory opinion,    recommendations of the       2008, an audit of the sector    strong signals to the investors and
            that is substantiated, on any  mining sector consultations  started has been finalized and  international         scale of activity,
            proposed agreement in the      forum, the LICUS TF-         is being reviewed by the        community and         as well as
            mining and energy sectors.     supported assessment of the  Bank. Recommendations from      private investors.    increased revenue
            The advisory opinions will     mining sector, the terms of  the audit will complement the   Transparency has      from the sector
            be written based on terms of   reference of which will have government action plan.         been improved with
            reference from the Inter-      been agreed with IDA.                                        the audit and
            ministerial Committee (IC)                                                                  publication of
            satisfactory to IDA, and will  Submission to the Council of Based on the results of the     financial
            be submitted to the IC and     Ministers and publication on audit of the sector, the mining transactions which
            the Council of Ministers for   the Government's website of  Code will be revised and        will be enhanced
            their deliberation on the      draft standard agreement     standard investment             under the EITI. Two
            agreements in question.        templates for the mining and agreement forms will be         large-scale new
            These opinions will be made    energy sectors, on the basis established.                    investors
            available to IDA for           of the recommendations                                       (AURAFRIQUE-
            information on a strictly      from the panel of                                            URAMIN/AREVA)
            confidential basis.            international experts.                                       are now operating in
                                                                                                        CAR.
            Immediate publication on       Consultations have been      The CAR has voluntarily
            the Government website of:     held with, inter alia, the   adhered to the EITI. A
            (i) a summary of all           state department/entities    national workshop with the
            agreements concluded and       concerned, sector            participation of all
            (ii) of the amount of mining   representatives and civil    stakeholders, including
            bonuses and social capital     society organizations        communities, took place in
            transferred under these        resulting in agreement on    March 2008 to discuss the
            mining agreements, as well     the goals of, outcomes       goals and the implementation
            as the proof of their          sought from, and work        strategy of the EITI. A second




                                                                                                                                         25

                                  Reform Program                            Status of measures and         Intermediate     Outcomes sought
                                                                                    progress            outcomes achieved
             DPO Key Achievements            Key Achievements and                                        (November 2006-
                        and                 Program Triggers (bold)                                         May 2008)
                Prior Actions (bold)       (January­December 2007)
             (January­December 2006)
           allocation into the State      program to enable EITI         workshop to validate the
           accounts and an indication     implementation.                outcomes of the first
           of how the funds were used                                    workshop and to create the
                                                                         EITI committee will take lace
           Ministerial order by the                                      in mid-June 2008.
           Minister in charge of mines
           compelling the publication                                    The Government has
           on the Government's website                                   commissioned an audit of
           of: (i) a summary of all                                      signature bonuses, equity
           mining agreements                                             transfer and their use between
           containing the key clauses                                    2004 and 2007. The results of
           (including financial and tax-                                 the audit had been shared with
           related terms and                                             the Bank.
           conditions, duration, and
           amounts received as
           signature bonuses and
           equity shares); (ii) and
           documents evidencing the
           transfer of the amounts
           received (as bonuses or
           equity shares) in the public
           accounts, as well as an
           indication of how the funds
           were used. For agreements
           already signed, effective
           publication of this
           information is an integral
           part of the prior action.
Forestry   ·         Ministerial order    ·        Launch of invitations Special forest harvesting had  Key steps have been Improved
           prohibiting special forestry   to tender for the award of     been cancelled and the award   taken to improve    governance for
           harvesting permits.            remaining forest harvesting    of the remaining forest        governance in the   sustainable




                                                                                                                                      26

                  Reform Program                       Status of measures and          Intermediate     Outcomes sought
                                                               progress            outcomes achieved
DPO Key Achievements        Key Achievements and                                    (November 2006-
         and                Program Triggers (bold)                                     May 2008)
  Prior Actions (bold)     (January­December 2007)
(January­December 2006)
                          and management plans      harvesting and management      forestry sector. In  management of
                          (FHMPs).                  plans were completed under     addition, the        FHMP
                                                    the operation in accordance    Government has
                                                    with the new rules and         cancelled the new
                                                    regulations established by the permits due to
                                                    Government and development     failure of the new
                                                    partners..                     firms to comply
                                                                                   with the national
                                                                                   fiscal regulations.
                                                                                   The Government
                                                                                   also has decided to
                                                                                   suspend issuance of
                                                                                   new permits until
                                                                                   the new Code is
                                                                                   adopted to ensure
                                                                                   governance in the
                                                                                   sector.




                                                                                                                27

28

29

                                    Evaluation DPO I

Les Principaux objectifs du Programme

1. Les principaux objectifs du DPO 1 étaient de permettre à la République
Centrafricaine de se réengager avec la communauté internationale et d'atteindre les
résultats inscrits dans le Document Cadre de Politique Economique et Sociale à travers i)
la restauration des fonctions principales de l'Etat ­ définition d'un cadre stratégique au
niveau national et sectoriel ; finances publiques, et gestion du personnel de l'Etat et ii)
l'amélioration de la gouvernance ( transparence, protection des droits des investisseurs,
gestion des ressources naturelles).

Evaluation du programme

    a) Evaluation de la mise en oeuvre des mesures

2. La mise en oeuvre du programme soutenu par le PRRI est globalement satisfaisante.
Premièrement, les actions pour renforcer le cadre stratégique de planification de
politiques    de   développement     ont  abouti    au   maintien    d'un    environnement
macroéconomique stable et à la finalisation du DSRP. En effet, le document a été adopté
par le Conseil des Ministre en juin 2007 ; aussi un séminaire national organisé par le
Gouvernement et présidé par le Président de République le 03 septembre 2007 a permis
de valider la version finale du DSRP. Par ailleurs, les autres stratégies sectorielles
(Sécurité, Développement rural, Justice et Gouvernance et Anti corruption) ont été
présentées de manière synthétique dans le DSRP, et sont enrichis à travers un processus
participatif ; des états généraux ont eu lieu entre mi-octobre et mi-décembre 2007, au
niveau respectivement des secteurs de la Justice et du Développement rural. Ces ateliers
et séminaires ont permis de finaliser les stratégies sectorielles dont les rapports sont déjà
disponibles.

3. Deuxièmement, la mise en oeuvre des actions visant une meilleure gestion des
dépenses publiques ont connu une avancée significative au niveau des réformes liées aux
dépenses, avec cependant un progrès moindre du coté de la mobilisation des recettes. Du
coté des dépenses, les novelles nomenclatures budgétaires et comptables ont été élaborées
et adoptées, le texte sur les nouvelles procédures d'exécution des dépenses est validé et
signé par le Président de la République le 11 avril 2008 et les avances de caisse sont
régulées de manière satisfaisante par le Trésor. Par conséquent, le Ministre des Finances
et du Budget est dorénavant le seul qui autorise les caisses d'avance et seul le Directeur
Général du Trésor est habilité à émettre des chèques de trésor qui sont adossés à la
liquidité. Les réformes visant à améliorer la gestion des personnels de l'Etat, et le
contrôle de la solde a abouti à la mise en place d'une gestion simplifiée de la solde. Ce
qui a permis une bonne internalisation des services de l'administration et une maîtrise de
la masse salariale. Un fichier unique des fonctionnaires a été créé et est géré par un
logiciel-maison conçu par les cadres nationaux. Les étapes ultimes concernent la
sécurisation, le verrouillage, la maintenance et éventuellement l'audit de la base de




                                                                                      30

données ainsi que du logiciel de gestion. Le travail est en train d'être poursuivi dans le
cadre de la mise en oeuvre des déclencheurs du PPTE.

4. Du coté des recettes, des progrès appréciables ont été réalisés dans la centralisation
des opérations de l'Etat au Trésor mais l'audit du Trésor qui a été confié à un Cabinet
international est très avancé. Les réformes pour augmenter les recettes fiscales sont en
phase de gestation et n'ont pas jusqu'ici amené les résultats escomptés, que ce soit au
niveau de l'administration fiscale ou douanière. En effet, les résultats du recensement des
contribuables qui a été lancé au niveau national, grâce au concours financier du PNUD
sont en cours d'exploitation.

5. Le pays a pu maintenir un cadre macroéconomique pour 2007. En effet, une revus
officielle du programme FRPC a été menée par le FMI au mois de mars 2008 qui a
conclu que les conditions macroéconomiques ont été satisfaisantes. La mise en oeuvre de
cette mesure sera poursuivie dans le cadre des déclencheurs PPTE.

6. Concernant les actions visant une meilleure transparence et bonne gouvernance, le
niveau d'exécution est satisfaisant. En effet, les dispositifs de la constitution sur la
déclaration annuelle de patrimoine des hommes politiques ont été appliqués en ce qui
concerne le Président de la République et les membres du Gouvernement. Le Premier
Ministre a, en outre initié une mesure allant dans ce sens et un décret spécifique qui
concernerait les hauts cadres de l'administration en l'occurrence les Directeurs généraux
du Trésor, Budget et des Impôts ainsi que des gestionnaires directs des ressources
publiques tels que les chefs d'entreprises publiques ; ce décret est prévu d'être publié
dans les semaines à venir. En outre, un mécanisme de discussion contre la corruption est
mis en place avec la nomination des membres de l'ANIF (organe créée par Décret
N°05.042 du 25 février 2005) par Décret N°07.274 du 29 septembre 2007. Enfin, en
matière de passation de marchés, un projet de code qui est révisé avec l'appui d'un expert
juriste international financé sur les fonds LICUS II, a été adopté par le conseil des
Ministres le jeudi 08 mai 2008. Ce texte est transmis à l'Assemblée Nationale le 14 Mai
2008. Par ailleurs, un expert en passation de marchés de longue durée a été recruté sur le
LICUSII pour appuyer les cadres nationaux et les structures étatiques à internaliser les
réformes et les procédures de passation de marchés.

7. Les activités visant le respect des droits des investisseurs sont en bonne voie
d'exécution ; d'une part, une loi consensuelle sur les télécommunications fixant les taxes
et redevances en matière d'établissement et / ou d'exploitation des réseaux et services de
télécommunications applicable sur toute l'étendue du territoire et celui portant
Réglementation des Télécommunications en RCA ont été adoptées par l'assemblée
nationale le 15 novembre 2007. Ces textes seront promulgués sous peu par la Président
de la République. D'autre part, la révision du code des investissements est en cours avec
l'appui du PNUD : En effet, un comité est à pied d'oeuvre pour réviser le code des
investissements de la RCA sur la base des directives de la CEMAC. La version finale est
attendue pour le début janvier 2008. Le Gouvernement a organisé en début novembre
2007, le séminaire de validation de l'EDIC à l'issue de laquelle un plan d'actions
prioritaires a été finalisé puis adopté par le Conseil des Ministre.



                                                                                    31

8. Des discussions clés ont été adoptées par les autorités dans le cadre de la gestion des
ressources minières : Le Gouvernement a donc saisi en lieu et place de la cour des
comptes, l'IGF pour procéder à l'audit des bonus de signature, des transferts de capitaux,
et de leur utilisation pour les années 2004, 2005 et 2006. Le rapport d'audit de l'IGF est
remis au Ministre des Finances et          transmis ensuite à la Banque mondiale. Le
gouvernement a mis en place une équipe de cadres qui travaille sur la stratégie sectorielle
des mines sur base des études diagnostiques existantes réalisées dans le cadre de la
préparation du DSRP. Un plan d'action a déjà été produit par le Gouvernement mais il
sera enrichi et définitivement approuvé sur la base de la déclaration de politique minière
en cours d'élaboration après la finalisation de l'audit du secteur. Les autorités ont envoyé
une requête d'assistance pour organiser un séminaire-atelier afin d'accélérer la mise en
oeuvre des conventions de l'ITIE. Pour le secteur des forêts, l'attribution des PEA s'est
faite sur appels d'offres au premier et au troisième trimestre et la mise à jour de la
réglementation du processus d'attribution des PEA a été effectuée.

9. Des progrès moindres ont été accomplis dans le sens de l'assainissement de la
gestion des entreprises d'utilité publiques en particulier dans le règlement des comptes
croisés entre l'Etat et les entreprises d'utilité publique SODECA/ENERCA/SOCATEL.
Le Ministre des Finances a pris un arrêté 12 juin 2006 fixant la procédure de sécurisation
de la taxe sur la valeur ajoutée perçue par les entreprises publiques et des efforts ont été
faits par l'Etat pour régler les arriérés de facture. Le montage d'un comité composé de
(Impôts, Budget, Douanes, et entreprise d'utilité publique) a été recommandé par la
mission du mois d'Août 2007. Ce comité a été opérationnel et a permis de réaliser des
progrès qui ont été discutés pendant cette mission : (i) pour ENERCA, cette
réconciliation a été effectuée et les comptes croisés à la date du mois de septembre 2007
montrent un solde positif au bénéfice de l'Etat ; (ii) pour SODECA les factures du
premier semestre 2007 ont été payées et celle du deuxième semestre restent entières ; (iii)
au niveau de SOCATEL, le problème reste entier.

10. Dans        le     cadre     du     renforcement      du      compte      d'exploitation
SODECA/ENERCA/SOCATEL, les trois entreprises ont                    présenté une situation
financière caractérisée par des déséquilibres financiers importants : (i) leur chiffre
d'affaires est extrêmement inefficient au vu des arriérés et des fraudes non-récupérées. Le
recensement des points de consommation a été commencé, ce qui a permis de diminuer
sensiblement les pertes non-techniques mais aussi d'augmenter le taux de recouvrement,
mais il doit être finalisé. Si l'utilisation des compteurs prépayés est de plus en plus
envisagée par les trois entreprises, ENERCA s'est déjà procuré 2000 compteurs
électroniques pour un montant d'un milliard CFA afin de réguler les consommations
d'électricité au niveau du secteur privé. La mission a recommandé le renforcement du
comité qui doit être présidé par le Ministre des Finances, ce qui a été approuvé par le
Gouvernement. Ce comité est à pied d'oeuvre pour présenter un plan d'action au cours du
premier trimestre 2008 comprenant : (i) la présentation des comptes croisés finaux, y
compris ceux des années antérieurs, et ; (ii) des mesures qui permettront d'éviter le cumul
de factures et de taxes impayées. Ce plan doit être présenté à la mission de la Banque
mondiale en janvier 2008 pour discussion




                                                                                      32

(b) Evaluation des indicateurs de performance

11. Afin de mieux jauger la performance du pays dans la mise en oeuvre du programme
soutenu par le PRRI, les services de l'administration ont fournis des informations sur les
niveaux de réalisation des indicateurs de performance dans les principaux domaines de
réforme. La situation au 30 décembre 2007 sur la réalisation des indicateurs qui avaient
été retenus, sont résumés dans le tableau ci-après :

Tableau : Niveau de réalisation des indicateurs de Performance du programme

Catégorie de réformes               Indicateurs de performance dans la Niveau               de
                                    mise en oeuvre du programme                 réalisation
Cadre        stratégique        de · Finalisation        du     DSRP       et Réalisé
planification de politiques de endossement par les partenaires internes
développement                       et externes
Gestion       des       Finances · Taux de centralisation au niveau du Réalisé
Publiques                           Trésor des recettes provenant des
                                    Ministères, Départements, Annexe            Réalisé
                                    · Les demandes d'avances de caisse
                                    non-justifiées rejetées et les sanctions
                                    appliquées                                  Progrès
                                    · Taux       de     recouvrement      des   modérément
                                    entreprises         publiques          en   satisfaisant
                                    augmentation/fraudes contrôlées
Gestion du Personnel de l'Etat · Diminution des redondances ou Réalisé
et de la solde                      pointés au niveau du fichier de la solde
Transparence et Obligation de · Nombre            d'enquêtes    ouvertes   et Réalisé
Rendre Compte                       clôturées contre les cas de corruption
                                    avérés en augmentation en 2007 par
                                    rapport aux années précédentes.
Gestion      des     Ressources · Enregistrement          d'au   moins    une Réalisé
Naturelles                          entreprise investissant dans le pays dans
                                    les secteurs des mines et ou dans le
                                    secteur forêt

c) Statut des reformes (selon leur classement dans la matrice du programme)

12. Des progrès substantiels ont été réalisés en rapport avec (i) la finalisation du
Documents Stratégique de Lutte contre la Pauvreté (DSRP), (ii) la maintien d'un cadre
macroéconomique stable pour l'année 2007, (iii) la réforme des douanes, (iv) la
centralisation des opérations de l'Etat au Trésor, (v) le suivi de la gestion et la
comptabilisation des avances, (vi) la modernisation de la gestion des fonctionnaires de
l'Etat et de la solde, (vii) la mise à jour du code des marchés publics, (viii) la gestion des
ressources forestières, ainsi que (ix) la modernisation de la législation du secteur des
télécommunications. L'annexe fait état des détails de réalisation de la mise en oeuvre des
mesures et actions du programme.


                                                                                        33

13. Cadre Stratégique de Lutte contre la Pauvreté et Stratégie sectorielles : Le DSRP
final a été adopté comme document de référence en matière de lutte contre la pauvreté en
RCA. Un séminaire national organisé par le Gouvernement et présidé par le Président de
la République la 03 septembre 2007 a validé la version finale du DSRP. Le DSRP final a
servi de document de base aux discussions lors de la table ronde des bailleurs de fonds de
la RCA qui a eu lieu le 26 octobre 2007 à Bruxelles. Par ailleurs, les autres stratégies
sectorielles (Sécurité, Développement rural, Justice, et Gouvernance et Anti-corruption)
ont été présentées de manière synthétique dans le DSRP, et sont en cours
d'enrichissement a travers un processus participatif ; des états généraux ont été organisés
pour les secteurs de la Justice (mi-octobre 2007) et du développement rural (mi-décembre
2007).

14. Maintien d'un cadre macroéconomique stable pour 2007 : La RCA met en oeuvre un
programme soutenu par une FRPC (Facilité pour la Réduction de la Pauvreté et la
Croissance) adopté par le Conseil d'Administration (CA) du FMI en décembre 2006. Une
revue officielle du programme FRPC a été mené par le FMI au mois d'Août 2007 qui a
conclu sur un programme satisfaisant malgré un léger décalage sur trois critères
quantitatifs : (i) les recettes fiscales a cause de la suppression de la TVA sur les
importations au sein de la CEMAC ; (ii) un dépassement des salaires du au paiement des
congés non pris ; (iii) la balance primaire en conséquence de ces deux évènements. La
mise en oeuvre de cette mesure sera poursuivie dans la cadre des déclencheurs PPTE.

15. Réforme des douanes : Le Gouvernement a satisfait un critère de performance du
FMI qui consisterait à réorganiser l'administration des douanes et à la mettre sous la
seule autorité du ministère des finances à fin février 2007. A cet effet, un rapport sur la
réforme de l'administration des douanes a été préparé par l'administration, accompagné
d'un organigramme et d'une matrice d'actions visant la réforme et la modernisation des
douanes, et ces documents ont été approuvés par le FMI. Le Gouvernement a commencé
la mise en oeuvre des activités inscrites dans le plan d'action sus-cité, notamment : (i)
L'assignation d'une lettre de mission avec des objectifs bien précis aux responsables ; (ii)
l'établissement d'un programme de formation et de recyclage ; (iii) La dotation aux
services opérationnels de document de base de travail, et ; (iv) l'utilisation de manière
optimale de tous les modules de SIDONIA++. Par ailleurs, un audit du Guichet Unique
de Douala a été réalisé sur financement du Gouvernement et dont l'objectif était de
formuler des recommandations devant faire partie du programme de réformes des
douanes. Le rapport définitif des douanes a été transmis au Gouvernement et à la Banque
Mondiale. Les services de l'administration ont extrait de ce rapport d'audit les principales
recommandations qui font partie d'un plan d'action de réforme des douanes. Suite à ce
rapport, le Gouvernement a décidé de revoir les conventions avec l'UNITEC chargé de la
gestion du Guichet Unique. Dans ce cadre, deux comités ont été mise en place pour faire
une relecture de la convention avec UNITEC : il s'agit du comité de textes et comité de
procédures. Le rapport d'audit de ces deux comités est attendu pour fin décembre 2007.
Le Gouvernement est entrain d'établir un plan basé sur ce rapport ; un chronogramme
d'exécution y afférant sera établi et sera envoyé à la Banque Mondiale.




                                                                                     34

16. Renforcement de l'administration fiscale : Les piliers de renforcement de
l'administration fiscale consiste en une (i) réhabilitation du fichier central des
contribuables à travers le recensement des unités économiques afin de mieux cerner
l'assiette fiscale et l'instauration d'une passerelle entre le système Systemif de la DG des
Impôts et du SYDONIA de la DG des Douanes afin de faciliter le recoupement et
l'harmonisation de l'identification des contribuables ; (ii) une amélioration du
recouvrement par l'intensification des contrôles et la relance des retardataires. Le
recensement des contribuables au niveau national est lancé avec le concours financier du
PNUD. En outre, LICUS II financera les travaux portant sur la mise en place d'une
Interface SYDONIA-SYSTEMIF-BIVAC sur l'analyse de fonctionnalité du logiciel
SYSTEMIF auprès de la direction générale des Impôts et du SYDONIA auprès de la
douane et l'instauration d'une passerelle entre les deux systèmes pour faciliter le
recoupement des contribuables.

17. Assainissement des rapports financier entre le trésor et les entreprises d'utilité
publique SODECA/ENERCA/SOCATEL : Le Ministre des Finances a pris un arrêté 12
juin 2006 fixant la procédure de sécurisation de la taxe sur la valeur ajoutée perçue par
les entreprises publiques. Selon cet arrêté, un agent receveur prélève chaque jour la TVA
nette due par l'entreprise, les autres taxes étant déclarées régulièrement par les entreprises
publiques auprès de la Direction des Impôts. La mission a constaté avec les autorités que
cette procédure n'est plus appliquée. Elle a été substituée par un mécanisme qui permet à
l'administration de collecter directement la TVA auprès des grands clients. Les factures
de l'administration sont par contre envoyées régulièrement à la Direction Générale du
Budget pour engagement.

18. L'instrument qui a servi d'interface financier entre le trésor et ces entreprises est la
tenue d'un compte dépôt au Trésor au nom de ces entreprises. Les mouvements
alimentant les comptes est la taxe-excluant la TVA-déclarée régulièrement par les
entreprise et le montant de la facture due par l'administration à ces entreprise. Très peu
de paiements effectifs ont effectivement eu lieu jusqu'en Aout 2007. Il est clair dans ces
conditions que le compte de dépôt ne puisse être un outil efficace de résolution des
problèmes des comptes croisés. La mission du mois d'Aout 2007 a, par conséquent
recommandé la mise en place d'un comité composé de (Impôts, Budget, Douanes et
entreprise d'utilité publique). Ce comité a été opérationnel et a permis de réaliser des
progrès qui ont été discutés pendant cette mission : (i) pour l ENERCA, cette
réconciliation a été effectué et les comptes croisés à la date du mois de Septembre 2007
montre un solde positif au bénéfice de l'Etat ; (ii) pour SODECA, les factures du premier
semestre 2007 ont été payées et celle du deuxième semestre reste entières ; (iii) au niveau
de SOCATEL, le problème reste entier. En réalité, le règlement de ces comptes croisée
est fortement grevé par manque de liquidité au niveau du Trésor et l'absence de clarté au
niveau des comptes croisées des années antérieures. La mission s'étais entendue avec le
Gouvernement sur le renforcement du comité déjà recommandé par la mission du mois
d'Aout par l'intermédiaire de la Présidence de ce comité par le Ministre des Finances afin
de mettre à plat tous les comptes et de finaliser un plan d'action pour s'attaquer plus
agressivement et de manière plus pérenne à ces problèmes. Ce plan d'action sera discuté
avec la mission en janvier 2008



                                                                                       35

19. Renforcement du compte d'exploitation SODECA/ENERCA/SOCATE : Les trois
entreprises ont     présenté une situation financière caractérisée par des déséquilibres
financiers importants de même qu'une efficacité technique en souffrance. Outre les
arriérés de l'Etat qui forment la grande partie des pertes non-techniques et les pertes
techniques, leur chiffre d'affaire est grevé par un mécanisme de recouvrement inefficient
et un niveau des consommation frauduleuses élevées au niveau du secteur privé malgré
les efforts de ces derniers mois qui ont permis de diminuer sensiblement le taux de
fraude. Pour contrer les fraudes, diverses mesures ont été adoptées mais ont eu des
portées maigres compte tenu du manque de moyens au niveau de ces entreprises. Par
exemple, ENERCA s'est procuré 2000 compteurs électroniques pour un montant d'un
milliard de FCFA afin de réguler les consommations d'électricité. Le taux de connexion
non-régulé reste cependant élevé avec seulement 5% des clients connectés à des
compteurs électroniques entrainant des pertes évaluées à 500 millions de F CFA par an et
nécessité des actions plus étendues, et par conséquent des investissements plus
importants. Un autre point consistant à lutter contre les fraudes est le recensement des
points de consommation qui reste à finaliser et qui a permis par exemple de détecter au
niveau de SOCATEL de factures fictives pour que cela ait un impact tangible. Les
résultats de ces analyses seront discutés avec la mission en janvier 2008 pour arrêter les
mesures qui s'imposent pour traiter des consommations qui ne relèvent pas de l'Etat.

20. Centralisation et Suivi des Opérations de l'Etat au Trésor et au Budget : Un exercice
d'incorporation de toutes les opérations de recette et de dépenses de l'Etat dans les
comptes du trésor a démarré et se trouve à un stade très avancé. Cet exercice comprend
les opérations suivantes : (i) toutes les CAS ont été fermées et les balances transférées au
trésor à l'exception du Fonds Routier et de la CASFDT ; (ii) une réunion hebdomadaire
de trésorerie passe en revue la situation des recettes collectées par les régies des recettes
financières ; (iii) des réunions regroupant les gestionnaires de fonds dans les agences et
les ministères qui perçoivent les recettes et les avances du trésor ont lieu et ce depuis
2006 ­ dont l'objectif était de les aider à tenir une comptabilité relative à la gestion des
fonds publics détenus. Les autorités comptent établir des guides utilisateurs et former les
agents dans les postes secondaires ; (iv) cet exercice a été suivi d'une instruction des
ministres des finances de déclarer les recettes (Arrêté 164 du 4 juillet 2007) et de verser
60% au trésor, les 40% restants étant affectés aux dépenses de ces départements.
Actuellement, 95% des déclarerions de janvier à novembre 2007 ont été collectées selon
le rapport mensuel établi par le trésor. Pour consolider les recettes auprès de ces caisses et
ministère et les dépenses qui y sont prélevées qui se font en dehors du cadre budgétaire.
L'IGE et l'IGF ont effectué les contrôles sur les recettes et dépenses de ces postes afin de
consolider les comptes et identifier les dépenses prioritaires pour décider de montants à
prélever. L'IGE et l'IGF continuent également leur travail pour identifier touts les postes
additionnels des recettes. Les travaux y afférant permettront d'harmoniser les textes de
prélèvement adéquat pour chaque poste. Le texte est en cours d'adoption. Les agents du
trésor redéployés actuellement dans cinq ministères pour prélever les recettes couvrant
douze (12) ministère en 2008.

21. Audit du Trésor : le travail d'audit est actuellement en cours : En effet, le processus
de recrutement de firme a été fait avec le concours de la Cour des Comptes. Douze



                                                                                       36

cabinets ont soumissionné et le cabinet international retenu commencera son travail en mi
décembre 2007. Ce travail est financé par le LICUS II. Les progrès dans la mise en oeuvre
des mesures correctives qu'après l'audit du trésor qui est en cours.

22. Préparation du Budget 2008 sur la base des données socio-économiques fiables :
Le budget 2008 a été transmis à la Banque Mondiale début décembre 2007 pour avis : Ce
budget est préparé sur la base du DSRP final et sur la nouvelle nomenclature. En outre, la
préparation du budget a commencé au mos suivi d'une circulaire au ministère au mois
d'Avril 2007. Un plafond est fixé par la direction du Budget en fonction des projections
macroéconomiques et des comptes nationaux. La conférence budgétaire a lieu au mois
d'Aout. Les données afférentes aux activités socio-économiques restent cependant de
faible qualité. Il y a un projet de la BAD(PARPE) qui financera l'appui aux prévisions
macroéconomiques. En outre, la Banque Mondiale finance un projet de renforcement de
capacités et d'élaboration de la Stratégie Nationale de la Statistique en RCA.

23. Préparation de Programme Nationaux d'Investissements Comptables avec le
DSRP : Le DSRP est achevé en septembre 2007 et incorpore des programmes nationaux
qui ont été préparés par les services de l'administration sur la base du travail de comités
techniques ministériels y compris secteurs de la sécurité et sociaux. Actuellement, les
comités sectoriels continuent de travailler sur l'identification des projets prioritaires qui
appuient la réalisation des actions prioritaires du DSRP. En outre, le Gouvernement a
déjà entamé la préparation du CDMT pour le prochain budget. Des équipes sectorielles
ont bénéficié de formations à l'étranger et bénéficieront d'assistante technique du PNUD
pour mener à bien la préparation des CDMTs pour le budget 2009.

24. Les efforts de maitrise de la gestion des caisses d'avance se poursuivent et visent à
passer de la phase de l'adoption et de la mise en oeuvre des mesures réglementaires à la
phase de la sanction des personnels qui ne respectent pas les pratiques énoncées dans le
cadre de l'arrêté n° 1039 du 10 novembre 2006 et de la lettre circulaire relative à la
gestion et à la régularisation des avances. Le Ministre des Finances est dorénavant le seul
qui autorise les caisses d'avance et seul le Directeur Général du Trésor est habileté à
émettre des chèques de trésor qui sont adossés à la liquidité. L'arrêté n° 1039/036 du 10
novembre 2006 a déjà prévu une sanction en cas de défaut de justification des caisses
d'avances et qui se traduit par le remboursement par le gestionnaire de la somme allouée,
ainsi que l'interdiction pour lui de bénéficier d'une autre caisse d'avance à l'avenir. Les
sanctions sont appliquées. Par ailleurs, une dotation budgétaire d'un montant d'un
milliard de F CFA a été incluse dans les prévisions budgétaires pour couvrir les dépenses
imprévues en rapport avec la consommation des biens et services de l'Etat. Les
engagements relatifs à cette rubrique restant limités, et un suivi rigoureux de ces dépenses
imprévues sont effectué par le département du budget.

25. Adoption d'une nouvelle nomenclature budgétaire et comptable et son utilisation
dans la préparation du budget 2008 : L'Assemblée nationale a demandé au
Gouvernement que le budget 2008 soit préparée sur la base d'une nouvelle nomenclature
budgétaire et comptable. Une équipe technique de l'administration (GREBUC) a travaillé
sur la nouvelle nomenclature budgétaire sous une assistance technique apportée par l'UE.



                                                                                      37

Au cours de la mission de supervision de la Banque Mondiale en Aout 2008, il a été
recommandé l'intensification des travaux de l'équipe technique, de concert avec la
coopération technique (UE et Banque Mondiale), pour essayer d'utiliser la nouvelle
nomenclature budgétaire pour l'année 2008. Finalement, le budget 2008 a été préparé sur
la base de la nouvelle nomenclature. Les nomenclatures comptables ne seront finalisées
et utilisées que pour l'exercice 2009.

26. Modernisation de la Gestion des Fonctionnaires de l'Etat et de la Solde : Sur
financement de la Banque Mondiale et du PNUD, un fichier unique a été constitué et géré
sous le logiciel de Gestion Automatisée de Dépenses du personnel de l'Etat
(LOGADEPE) conçu par les cadres de l'administration de la RCA et installé au sein de
l'ONI, la direction de la solde, la fonction publique et de l'intendance des FACA.
L'interconnexion entre ces services a été testée et validée. La mise en place de la
procédure simplifiée et un système de réseau a été installée avec une dotation d'un
système radio. En outre, un texte a été établi pour définir le nouveau circuit
d'information, les rôles de chaque intervenant, une suppression des recopies manuelles,
une limitation de l'intervention humaine sur le fichier, l'automatisation du traitement de
la solde ainsi que l'apurement de la base des données en temps réel. Ce texte confère le
rôle de contrôle comptable des mouvements de solde à la Direction de la Solde. L'étape
restante consiste en : (i) la sécurisation et le verrouillage des bases de donnée dans le
nouveau système ; (ii) un séminaire de validation du système et son initialisation avant le
basculement des données. LICUS II financera ces activités.

27. Concernant le schéma d'organisation générale de la réforme de la fonction
publique, ce document a été préparé par les services de l'administration et validé par le
Comité de Pilotage de la Réforme. Le schéma préconise les actions suivantes : (i)
réorganisation de l'administration et analyse des emplois ; (ii) mise en place d'un
véritable outil de gestion intégrée des ressources humaines de l'Etat et ; (iii) refonte du
système réglementaire et mise en place à la fonction publique d'emploi. Cette activité
sera poursuivie dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre des déclencheurs PPTE.

28. Adoption d'un décret pour la réforme des procédures d'exécution des dépenses
publique : Une loi organique relative aux lois de finances a été promulguée le 3 juillet
2006 et constitue le socle et le cadre de référence des opérations financières et
budgétaires de l'Etat. Un projet de texte du nouveau circuit des dépenses a été validé par
le cabinet du Ministre des Finances et du Budget sur proposition du GREBUC. Le texte
fixe les procédures d'exécution des dépenses publiques conformément à l'orthodoxie
financière, détermine les agents chargés d'exécuter les dépenses publiques, les taches qui
leur sont dévolues, ainsi que l'exécution des dépenses publiques selon la nature des
dépenses. Il reste de faire une concertation élargie des partenaires avant la soumission à
la signature du Président de la République.

29. Réforme du Système des Marché Publics : Un rapport provisoire sur la situation de
passation de marchés en RCA a été préparé en 20065 avec une assistance technique
fournie par la Banque Mondiale. Un projet de code révisé est prêt et un expert juriste a
été recruté pour finaliser le Code. La relecture du nouveau code est en cours avec l'appui



                                                                                     38

de l'expert juriste. Par ailleurs, le recrutement d'un expert en passation de marchés de
longue durée est en cours pour internaliser les réformes de passation de marchés.

30. Audit du bonus de signature des conventions minières, des transferts des parts
de capitaux propres, ainsi que leur utilisation : La cour des comptes ne dispose pas de
ressources appropriées pour réaliser cet audit comme envisagé dans le programme de la
Banque. Ainsi, compte tenu du peu de moyens dont dispose la cour des comptes, une
disposition a été prise par le Ministre des Finances pour constituer un task force au sein
de l'IGF pour s'occuper de cette tache. Le Gouvernement a donc saisi l'IGF pour
procéder à l'audit. Le rapport d'audit de l'IGF sera remis au Ministre des Finances avant
le 15 décembre 2007 puis transmis à la Banque Mondiale pour discuter des actions à
suivre.

31. Adoption par le gouvernement d'un plan d'action du secteur minier : Le
gouvernement a mis en place une équipe des cadres qui vont travailler sur la stratégie
sectorielle des mines sur la base des études diagnostiques existantes réalisées dans le
cadre de la préparation du DSRP. Ce travail sera complété par les résultats de l'audit du
secteur en cours. A ce titre, un plan d'action a été produit par le gouvernement et qui sera
renforcé par les résultats de l'audit et de la stratégie sectorielle qui en découlera.

32. Adoption et publication des projets d'accords pour le secteur minier et le
secteur de l'énergie : Au cours des négociations entre les autorités de la RCA et les
équipes des institutions de Bretton Wood, il a été convenu que cette activité va être
réalisée dans le cadre des réformes à mettre en oeuvre avant que le pays n'atteigne le
point d'achèvement de l'initiative PPTE. La Banque compte utiliser les ressources
prévues dans le cadre du don LICUSII pour financer l'assistance technique qui va
préparer la convention et le code minier. Cette mesure fait maintenant partie des
déclencheurs du point d'achèvement de l'IPPTE.

33. Consultations internes relatives au programme de mise en oeuvre du processus
ITIE : Le Gouvernement a déjà envoyé au secrétariat de l'TTIE une requête d'adhésion à
ce processus. Dans le cadre des activités rentrant dans la mise en oeuvre de l'ITIE en
RCA, un séminaire atelier, sera organisé à Bangui en début d'année 2008 conjointement
avec le secrétariat de l'ITIE, en faveur des partenaires intéressés par développement du
secteur.

34. Déclaration du patrimoine par les dignitaires politiques et les hauts cadres de
l'administration : En application des dispositions de la constitution (Art.26, 44,50 et
75), le Président de la République, le Premier Ministre, de même que les membres du
gouvernement ont fait une déclaration de leur patrimoine à l'entrée et à la sortie de
fonction. Le Premier Ministre a initié une mesure allant dans ce sens et un arrêté
spécifique qui concernerait les Directeurs du Trésor, Budget, et des Impôts ainsi que des
gestionnaires directes des ressources publiques tels que les chefs d'entreprises publiques
serait publié. Le suivi de la mise en oeuvre de cette mesure pour les hauts dignitaires
politiques sera poursuivi dans le cadre de l'initiative PPTE.




                                                                                       39

35. Renforcement de l'ANIF : Le texte créant l'ANIF est disponible et les réunions
avec le Ministre des Finances au cours de la mission a permis d'avancer le calendrier de
la mise en oeuvre de cette mesure. Les membres de l'ANIF (organe créée par Décret N°
05.042 du 25 février 2005) ont été nommés par Décret N° 07.274 du 29 septembre 2007.
L'ANIF a reçu une dotation budgétaire dans le cadre du budget 2008.

36. Lutte anti-corruption : La lutte contre la corruption consistait à ouvrir des enquêtes
sur des cas avérés de corruption et d'infliger des sanctions aux coupables. Le Ministre de
la justice a communiqué à la mission les statistiques pour 2006 et 23007 illustrant les
efforts faits par l'administration dans ce domaine.

37. Mise à jour de la législation pour le secteur des télécommunications : Les
services    de   l'administration    ont   préparé  une    loi   régissant  le secteur des
télécommunications dont le projet a déjà été transmis au bureau du parlement. Dans le
contexte de la préparation de ce projet de loi, la Banque a envoyé deux experts qui ont
formulé des recommandations visant à l'intégrer dans la loi les meilleures pratiques dans
le domaine des télécommunications. Le projet a fait l'objet de discussions avec les
représentants du secteur privé et le Gouvernement a sollicité une expertise au prés de
l'Union Internationale pour les Télécommunications pour une révision et un toilettage du
projet de loi. Le projet de loi fixant les taxes et redevances en matière d'établissement
et/ou d'exploitation des réseaux et services de télécommunications applicable sur toute
l'étendue du territoire et celui portant réglementation des télécommunications en RCA
ont été adopté par l'Assemblée Nationale le 15 novembre 2007. Ces textes seront
promulgués sous peu par le Président de la République.

38. L'assainissement de l'environnement des affaires par la révision du code des
investissements en harmonie avec la charte des investissements de la CEMAC : La
révision du code est en cours avec l'appui du PNUD ; Un comité est à pied d'oeuvre pour
réviser le code des investissements de la RCA sur la base des directives de la CEMAC.
La version finale est attendue pour début janvier 2008. Le Gouvernement a organisé en
début novembre 2007, le séminaire de validation de l'EDIC à l'issue de la quelle un plan
d'actions prioritaires a été finalisé puis adopté par le conseil des Ministres.

39. Gestion des Ressources Forestières : La mission a noté le progrès fait par le
gouvernement pour assurer une gestion soutenable des ressources forestières ainsi qu'une
amélioration progressive de la transparence. Aussi, la révision de l'arrêté fixant la
procédure d'attribution des PEA a été finalisée, de même que le règlement intérieur qui
fixe les procédures au sein de la commission d'attribution été préparé et adopté. Dans ce
contexte, il ya eu un second lancement d'appel d'offres au cours du troisième trimestre
2007 dans Jeune Afrique et sur le site Internet du Gouvernement pour la soumission de
deux permis d'exploitation et d'aménagement situés dans les préfectures de l'Ombelle
Mpoko et de la Lobaye. L'arrété fixant la procédure d'attribution de PEA (003/MEFCP).
Les deux derniers permis ont été attribué début novembre 2007. La Banque Mondiale
attend recevoir dans les meilleurs délais le rapport d'évaluation de ces offres.




                                                                                     40

Les Leçons tirées de la mise en oeuvre de ce programme

40. La mise en oeuvre de ce Programme a permis au pays de renouer avec la
communauté financière internationale à travers la conclusion d'un programme
économique appuyé par la Facilité pour la Réduction de la pauvreté et la croissance
(FRPC).

41. En même temps la finalisation du DSRP et l'élaboration des différents textes a
permis une véritable appropriation des cadres nationaux aux réformes qui ont été
engagées.
L'assurance des financements pour éviter les retards dans la mise en oeuvre des mesures
structurelles.

42. Une coordination active entre les partenaires est nécessaire pour gestion optimale et
adaptée des ressources extérieures.




                                                                                  41

                                    Evaluation of DPO I

Main objectives of the Program

43. The main objectives of DPO 1 were to enable the Central African Republic to re-
engage with the international community and to achieve the results set forth in the
Economic and Social Policy Framework Document (ESPF) by: i) restoring the main
functions of the Government, e.g., definition of a strategic framework at the national and
sectoral levels; guidance of public finance; and management of Government personnel;
and ii) improving governance (e.g., transparency, safeguarding of the rights of investors,
natural resource management).

Evaluation of the Program

    a) Implementation of measures

44. Implementation of the program supported by the PRRI has been satisfactory overall.
First, actions aimed at strengthening the strategic framework for development policy
planning maintained a stable macroeconomic environment and permitted the PRSP to be
finalized; the Paper was adopted by the Council of Ministers in June 2007. A national
seminar organized by the Government and chaired by the President of the Republic on
September 3, 2007 validated the final version of the PRSP. In addition, the other sectoral
strategies (i.e., security, rural development, justice and governance, and anti-corruption
strategies) were summarized in the PRSP and deepened through the participatory process.
National meetings (Etats généraux) were held in mid-October and mid-December 2007,
respectively, for the justice and rural development sectors. These workshops and
seminars finalized sectoral strategies, for which reports are now available.

45. Secondly, implementation of interventions aimed at better management of public
expenditures made significant progress in terms of expenditure reform, although there
was less progress in terms of revenue mobilization. With regard to expenditures, new
budgetary and accounting nomenclatures were developed and approved, the legal text on
new expenditure execution procedures was validated and signed by the President of the
Republic on April 11, 2008, and cash advances were reconciled satisfactorily by the
Treasury. As a result, the Ministry of Finance and Budget is henceforth the only entity
able to authorize cash advances and the Director General of the Treasury the only
individual empowered to issue treasury checks made out to cash. Reforms aimed at
improving government staff management and salary monitoring led to the establishment
of a simplified salary management system. This in turn made it possible to properly
internalize administrative services and to gain control over the wage bill. A unified roster
of civil servants was created and is managed by an in-house software designed by local
managerial staff. Subsequent steps will involve the security, locking, maintenance and,
ultimately, auditing of the database and management software. This work is underway in
connection with the implementation of HIPC triggers.




                                                                                     42

46. Regarding revenues, significant progress has been made in centralizing government
transactions at the Treasury, while the Treasury audit, which was assigned to an
international firm, is well underway. Reforms aimed at increasing tax revenues are in the
gestation phase and have not yet yielded the desired results, whether in terms of tax
administration or customs management. The results of the national taxpayers' census
carried out with UNDP funding are now being utilized.

47. The country has been able to maintain a macroeconomic framework for 2007. An
official IMF review of the FRPC program in March 2008 concluded that macroeconomic
conditions were satisfactory. Implementation of this measure will continue in connection
with the HIPC triggers.

48. Regarding interventions aimed at improving transparency and governance, the level
of implementation is satisfactory. Indeed, mechanisms aimed at requiring politicians to
make annual declarations of personal assets have been put in motion with regard to the
President of the Republic and members of government. The Prime Minister has also
initiated a measure concerning this area, and a specific decree concerning top
administration officials ­ e.g., the Directors General of the Treasury, Budget and
Taxation, as well as those who manage public moneys directly, such as the heads of
public enterprises ­ is slated for publication within a few weeks. In addition, a
mechanism for discussion of the topic of corruption was created with the appointment, by
Decree N°07.274 dated September 29, 2007, of the members of ANIF (an agency created
by Decree N°05.042 dated February 25, 2005). Finally, regarding procurement, a draft
Code, revised with help from an international legal expert financed by the LICUS II fund,
was approved by the Council of Ministers on Thursday, May 8, 2008. This text was
submitted to the National Assembly on May 14, 2008. In addition, a long-term
procurement expert has been recruited under LICUS II to help national managers and
government structures to internalize procurement reforms and procedures.

49. Activities aimed at safeguarding the rights of investors are well underway: a
nationally applicable consensual law on telecommunications that establishes duties and
fees for the creation and/or operation of telecommunications networks and services, and a
law on telecommunications regulations in the CAR were approved by the National
Assembly on November 15, 2007. These texts will be promulgated soon b the President
of the Republic. The Investment Code is also being revised with UNDP assistance. A
committee is currently at work on a revised Investment Code of the CAR on the basis of
CEMAC guidelines. The final version is due in early January 2008. In early November
2007, the Government held an EDIC validation workshop, following which a priority
action plan was finalized and then approved by the Council of Ministers.

50. The authorities approved key discussions on mineral resource management. The
Government called upon IGF, in lieu of the Audit Office, to conduct the audit of signing
bonuses and capital transfers, and of their use during the 2004, 2005 and 2006 fiscal
years. IGF's audit report was submitted to the Ministry of Finance and then conveyed to
the World Bank. The Government has established a team of managers who are working
on a mining sector strategy, based on existing diagnostic studies performed in connection



                                                                                  43

with PRSP preparation. The Government has produced as action plan, which will be
supplemented and will receive final approval, once the sector audit is complete, on the
basis of the Declaration of Mining Policy now under preparation. The authorities have
submitted a request for assistance in organizing a seminar/workshop aimed at
accelerating implementation of ITIE conventions. In the forestry sector, PEAs were
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding in the first and third quarters, and PEA
award regulations have been updated.

51. Less progress has been made in terms of reorganization of public utility
management, especially with regard to the reconciliation of crossed accounts between the
Government and the public utility companies SODECA, ENERCA and SOCATEL. The
Ministry of Finance issued an order on June 12, 2006 setting forth the procedure for
securing the value-added tax collected by public enterprises, and the Government has
endeavored to clear invoicing arrears. The August 2007 mission recommended that a
committee composed of representatives of the Tax, Budget, Customs and Public
Enterprise Directorates be created. This committee is operational and has made some
progress, as was discussed during the mission: (i) for ENERCA, reconciliation was
completed and crossed accounts as of September 2007 show a positive balance in favor
of the Government; (ii) for SODECA, invoices from the first half of 2007 were paid,
while those from the second half of the year are still outstanding; (iii) for SOCATEL, the
issue remains unresolved.

52. In terms of strengthening the SODECA, ENERCA and SOCATEL operating
accounts, these three enterprises were in an extremely unbalanced financial situation: (i)
their turnover is extremely inefficient due to arrears and unrecovered embezzlements. An
inventory (still to be finalized) of consumption points has begun, and has substantially
reduced non-technical losses and increased recovery rates. Although the use of prepaid
meters is being considered to an increasing degree by all three enterprises, ENERCA has
already acquired 2,000 electronic meters for the sum of CFAF 1 billion, in order to
regulate electricity consumption in the private sector. The mission recommended
strengthening the committee, which is to be chaired by the Minister of Finance; the
Government approved this proposal. This committee is now at work on a plan of action to
be submitted during the first quarter of 2008. It includes: (i) presentation of final crossed
accounts, including those of prior years; and (ii) measures to prevent the accumulation of
unpaid invoices and taxes. This plan is to be submitted to the World Bank in January
2008 for discussion.

(b) Performance indicators

53. To better gauge the country's performance in implementing the PRRI-supported
program, the Administration has provided data on levels of realization of performance
indicators in the main reform areas. The status of the selected indicators, as of December
30, 2007, is shown below:




                                                                                       44

Table: Achievement of program performance indicators

Reform category                 Implementation          of      program Level         of
                                performance indicators                    achievement
Strategic    framework      for · Finalization    of    PRSP     and  its Complete
development policy planning     endorsement by internal and external
                                partners
Public finance management       · Centralization      at    Treasury  of Complete
                                revenues from Ministries, Departments,
                                Annex
                                · Rejection     of   non-justified  cash  Complete
                                advance requests, and application of
                                sanctions
                                · Increased rate of recovery of public    Moderate
                                enterprises /control of fraud             progress
Management of Government · Reduction in redundancies/excess Complete
personnel and salaries          payments in salary roster
Transparency               and · Increased number of investigations Complete
accountability                  opened and completed in 2007, relative
                                to previous years, in cases of overt
                                corruption.
Natural resource management     · Registration     of     at  least  one Complete
                                enterprise investing in the country's
                                mining or forestry sectors.

c) Status of reforms (according to ranking in program matrix)

54. Substantial progress has been made with regard to: (i) finalization of Poverty
Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs); (ii) maintenance of a stable macroeconomic
framework for 2007; (iii) customs reform; (iv) centralization of government transactions
at the Treasury; (v) monitoring of management and accounting of advances; (vi)
modernization of civil servants and salary management; (vii) updating of the public
procurement code; (viii) management of forestry resources; and (ix) updating of
telecommunications sector legislation. The Annex provides details on the status of
implementation of program measures and interventions.

55. Strategic Framework for Poverty Reduction and sectoral strategies. The final
PRSP was approved as a reference document for poverty reduction in the CAR, and was
validated on September 3, 2007 at a national Government workshop chaired by the
President of the Republic. The document served as a baseline document for discussions at
the CAR Donors' Round Table on October 26, 2007 in Brussels. The other sectoral
strategies (security, rural development, justice and governance, and anti-corruption
efforts) were presented in summary form in the PRSP and are being rounded out through
a participatory process. National workshops (états généraux) were held for the justice
(mid-October 2007) and rural development (mid-December 2007) sectors.



                                                                                 45

56. Maintenance of a stable macroeconomic framework for 2007: CAR is
implementing an ongoing program under a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
(PRGF) approved by the IMF Board in December 2006. An official review of the PRGF
program conducted by the IMF in August 2007 concluded that the program was
satisfactory despite some slippage with regard to three quantitative criteria: (i) tax
revenues, due to elimination of the VAT on imports within CEMAC; (ii) a salary overrun
due to the payment of leave not taken; (iii) the primary balance, due to the two foregoing
points. Implementation of this measure will continue in connection with HIPC triggers.

57. Customs reform. The Government met one of the IMF's performance criteria,
which consisted of reorganizing the customs administration and placing it under the sole
authority of the Ministry of Finance as of end-February 2007. In this connection, a report
on customs administration reform was prepared by the Administration, along with an
organizational chart and a matrix of interventions aimed at reforming and modernizing
the customs system. The IMF approved these documents. The Government has begun
implementation of activities included under the aforementioned plan, including: (i)
preparation of a mission letter for those responsible, with clearly stated objectives; (ii)
establishment of a training and re-training program; (iii) provision of basic working
documents to operational departments; and (iv) optimal use of all modules of
SIDONIA++. In addition, an audit of the Douala Single Window (guichet unique de
Douala) was carried out with Government funding in an effort to formulate
recommendations to be included in the customs reform program. The final report on
customs was submitted to the Government and the World Bank. The Administration
extracted from this audit report the main recommendations, which are part of an action
plan for customs reform. Subsequent to this report, the Government decided to revisit its
conventions with the UNITEC in charge of managing the Single Window. In this
connection, two committees ­ a text committee and a procedures committee -- were
established to review the convention with UNITEC. The audit report prepared by these
two committees is due in late December 2007. The Government is now establishing a
plan based on this report. The related implementation timetable will be drawn up and
submitted to the World Bank.

58. Strengthening of tax administration. The pillars of tax administration enhancement
are: (i) overhaul of the central taxpayers' roster by means of an inventory of economic
units with a view to better determining the tax base and creating cross-connections
between the Tax Directorate's SYSTEMIF system and the Customs Directorate's
SYDONIA system, thereby facilitating cross-checks and taxpayer identification; (ii)
enhanced recovery through stepped-up controls and issuance of repeat notices to late
payers. The national inventory of taxpayers is being launched with UNDP financing. In
addition, LICUS II will finance work concerning the establishment of a
SYDONIA/SYSTEMIF/BIVAC interface, analysis of functionality of the Tax
Directorate's SYSTEMIF software and of the Customs Directorate's SYDONIA
software, and the creation of cross-connections between the two systems to facilitate the
merging of both taxpayer rosters.




                                                                                    46

59. Reorganization of financial relationships between the Treasury and the public
utility companies SODECA, ENERCA and SOCATEL. The Minister of Finance
issued an order on June 12, 2006 setting forth the procedure for securing the value-added
tax collected by public enterprises. Under the terms of this order, a tax agent withholds
the net VAT owed by the enterprise each day, the other taxes being declared to the Tax
Directorate on a regular basis by the public enterprises. The mission determined with the
authorities that this procedure is no longer being applied. It has been replaced by a
mechanism enabling the Administration to collect the VAT directly from its large
customers. The Administration's invoices, however, are regularly sent to the Budget
Directorate for commitment processing.

60. The instrument that served as a financial interface between the Treasury and these
enterprises is a deposit account at the Treasury in the name of these enterprises.
Transactions replenishing the accounts are the tax ­ exclusive of VAT ­ which is
declared on a regular basis by the enterprises, and the amount of the invoice owed by the
Administration to these enterprises. Very few actual payments occurred prior to August
2007. It is obvious under these circumstances that the deposit account cannot be an
effective solution to cross-accounting issues. The August 2007 mission therefore
recommended the creation of a committee composed of representatives of the Tax,
Budget, Customs and Public Enterprise Directorates. This committee is operational and
has made progress, which was discussed during the mission: (i) for ENERCA,
reconciliation has occurred and cross-accounting as of September 2007 shows a positive
balance in the Government's favor; (ii) for SODECA, invoices from the first half of 2007
have been paid, while those of the second half of the year are still outstanding; (iii) for
SOCATEL, the problem is still unresolved. Reconciliation of these crossed accounts is
severely hampered by a lack of liquidity at the Treasury and the lack of clarity in the
crossed accounts of previous years. The mission agreed with the Government that the
committee that was recommended by the August mission should be strengthened by
having the Minister of Finance serve as its chairman, so that all accounts can be laid out
and a plan of action finalized to address these problems more aggressively and
sustainably. This action plan will be discussed with the mission in January 2008.

61. Strengthening of SODECA, ENERCA and SOCATE operating accounts. The
three enterprises have significant financial imbalances and show a lack of technical
efficiency. In addition to Government arrears, which account for most non-technical and
technical losses, their turnover is compromised by an inefficient recovery mechanism and
a high prevalence of fraudulent consumption in the private sector, despite efforts made in
recent months, which have reduced fraud to some degree. Various steps have been taken
to counter this fraud, but results have been meager due to the lack of resources within
these enterprises. For example, ENERCA purchased 2,000 electronic meters for the sum
of CFAF 1 billion to regulate electricity consumption. The rate of unregulated
connections remains high, however -- only 5 percent of customers are hooked up to
electronic meters ­ and losses are estimated at CFAF 500 million per year. This requires
broader intervention and, thus, greater investment. Another fraud-fighting measure
consists of inventorying consumption points (the inventory has yet to be completed); this
has turned up fraudulent invoices at SOCATEL. The results of these analyses will be



                                                                                   47

discussed with the January 2008 mission, with a view to identifying the measures
required to handle consumption that does not emanate from the Government.

62. Centralization and monitoring of government transactions at the Treasury and
Budget Directorate. An exercise aimed at incorporating all revenue and expenditure
transactions of the Government into the Treasury accounts has begun and is well
underway. This exercise includes the following operations: (i) all special accounts have
been closed out and their balances transferred to the Treasury with the exception of those
of the Roads Fund and the CASFDT; (ii) a weekly Treasury meeting reviews the status of
revenues collected by state financial revenue authorities; (iii) meetings of fund managers
within the agencies and ministries who collect revenues and Treasury advances have been
occurring since 2006, their purposes being to help those managers maintain an
accounting of the management of public funds held. The authorities intend to prepare
users' guides and to train employees in secondary positions; (iv) this exercise was
followed by an instruction emanating from the Minister of Finance to declare revenues
(Order 164 dated July 4, 2007), depositing 60 percent with the Treasury and allocating
the remaining 40 percent to expenditures for those departments. At present, 95 percent of
declarations for the January ­ November 2007 period have been collected, according to
the Treasury's monthly report. To consolidate all government receipts, IGE and IGF have
verified receipts and expenditures for these items in order to consolidate accounts,
identify priority expenditures and decide on the sums to be withheld. IGE and IGF are
also continuing their work consisting of identifying all additional revenue items. This
work will make it possible to harmonize withholding rules for each budget item. The text
is in the process of being approved. Treasury employees are currently redeployed in
twelve ministries to carry out revenue withholdings.

63. Treasury audit. The audit is currently underway; a firm was recruited with the help
of the Audit Office. Twelve firms submitted bids and the international firm chosen will
commence work in mid-December 2007. This work is being financed by LICUS II.
Progress is being made in implementing corrective measures in accordance with the
current Treasury audit.

64. Preparation of 2008 budget on the basis of reliable socio-economic data. The
2008 budget was submitted to the World Bank in early December 2007 for comment.
This budget was prepared on the basis of the final PRSP and the new nomenclature.
Budget preparation commenced in April 2007 following a ministerial circular. The
Budget Directorate has fixed a ceiling based on macroeconomic projections and national
accounts. The budget conference took place in August. Socio-economic data, however,
continue to be of poor quality. An AfDB (PARPE) project will fund support for
macroeconomic projections. The World Bank will also finance a project to build
capacities and prepare the CAR's National Statistics Strategy.

65. Preparation of the National Accounting Investment Program under the PRSP.
The PRSP was completed in September 2007 and incorporates national programs
prepared by the Administration on the basis of the work of ministerial technical
committees, including those in the security and social sectors. At present, the sectoral



                                                                                    48

committees continue to work on identifying priority projects that support priority
interventions under the PRSP. In addition, the Government has already begun preparation
of the MTEF for the next budget exercise. Sectoral teams have received training abroad
and will receive UNDP technical assistance in preparing MTEFs for the 2009 budget.

66. Efforts to gain control over advances are ongoing and are aimed at transitioning
from the regulatory measure adoption/implementation phase to the phase involving
sanctions for staff who fail to comply with the practices set forth in Order n° 1039 dated
November 10, 2006 and the administrative circular concerning the management and
reconciliation of advances. The Minister of Finance is henceforth the only individual able
to authorize advances, and the Director General of the Treasury is the only person
empowered to issue treasury checks made out to cash. Order n° 1039/036 dated
November 10, 2006 provides for sanctions in the event of failure to justify advances: the
manager must reimburse the sum allocated and is prohibited in future from receiving
more advances. These sanctions are being enforced. In addition, a budget allocation of
CFAF one (1) billion was included in budget forecasts to cover contingences related to
the Government's consumption of goods and services. Commitments under this rubric are
still limited, and the Budget Directorate is strictly monitoring these contingencies.

67. Adoption of new budget and accounting nomenclature, and its use in
preparation of 2008 budget. The National Assembly asked the Government to prepare
the 2008 budget on the basis of a new budgetary and accounting nomenclature. A
technical team from the Administration (GREBUC) worked on the new budgetary
nomenclature under technical assistance from the European Union. It was recommended
that, during the August 2008 World Bank supervision mission, the technical team step up
its efforts in collaboration with the (EU and World Bank) technical cooperation to try to
use the new budgetary nomenclature for the 2008 fiscal year. Finally, the 2008 budget
was prepared on the basis of the new nomenclature. The accounting nomenclatures will
not be finalized or used until the 2009 budget year.

68. Modernization of management of civil servants and salaries. Under World Bank
and UNDP financing, a single file was created and is managed using the LOGADEPE
(Gestion automatisée de dépenses du personnel de l'Etat) designed by CAR
Administration staff and installed within ONI and the Directorate for Salaries, Civil
Servants and FACA Administration. The interconnection between these departments has
been tested and validated. The simplified procedure was put in place and networking
established through the provision of a radio system. In addition, the text was drawn up to:
define the new information circuit and the roles of each participant; eliminate manual
recopying; limit human intervention in the file; automate salary processing; and update
the database in real time. This text assigns to the Salaries Directorate the role of
exercising accounting control over salary transactions. The next steps are to: (i) secure
and lock the database in the new system; (ii) hold a system validation workshop and
initialize the system before data is transferred into it. LICUS II will finance these
activities.




                                                                                     49

69. Concerning the general schema for civil service reform, this document was
prepared by the Administration and validated by the Reform Steering Committee. The
schema recommends the following measures: (i) reorganization of the administration and
analysis of job slots; (ii) establishment of a truly integrated tool for management of civil
service human resources; and (iii) reorganization of the regulatory system and application
thereof to civil service employment. This activity will continue in connection with
implementation of HIPC triggers.

70. Adoption of a decree on reform of public expenditure procedures: An organic
budget law was promulgated on July 3, 2006 and constitutes the foundation and frame of
reference for the Government's financial and budgetary operations. The Office of the
Minister of Finance and Budget validated a draft text concerning the new expenditure
circuit, at the urging of the GREBUC. The text sets forth the procedures for public
expenditure execution in accordance with financial orthodoxy, identifies the parties
responsible for executing public expenditures and their tasks, and explicates public
expenditures according to the nature of the expenditure. Broader collaboration by
partners, prior to submission of the text for the signature of the President of the Republic,
is still required.

71. Reform of public procurement. An interim report on the status of procurement in
CAR was prepared in 2006 with World Bank technical assistance. A draft revised Code is
ready and a legal expert has been recruited to finalize it. The legal expert is in the process
of reviewing the Code. In addition, recruitment of a long-term procurement expert is
underway to encourage internalization of the procurement reforms.

72. Audit of signing bonuses for mining conventions, transfers of equity capital
shares, and their use. The Audit Office does not have the resources to carry out this
audit as planned under the World Bank program. Thus, given the lack of resources of the
Audit Office, the Minister of Finance has taken steps to create a task force within the IGF
to accomplish this task. The Government has thus requested that IGF proceed with an
audit. IGF's audit report will be submitted to the Minister of Finance by December 15,
2007 and then conveyed to the World Bank for discussion of subsequent actions.

73. Adoption by the Government of a mining sector action plan. The Government
has put together a team of managers to work on mining sector strategy on the basis of
existing diagnostic studies carried out in connection with the PRSP. This work will be
supplemented by the results of the sector audit now underway. In this connection, an
action plan has been produced by the Government and will be strengthened through the
results of the audit and the resulting sectoral strategy.

74. Adoption and publication of draft agreements for the mining and energy
sectors. During negotiations between CAR authorities and teams from the Bretton
Woods institutions, it was agreed that this activity would be carried out within the
framework of reforms needed before the country achieves the HIPC completion point.
The World Bank intends to use funds from the LICUS II grant to finance the technical




                                                                                       50

assistance that will prepare the mining convention and mining code. This measure is now
one of the HIPC completion point triggers.

75. Internal consultations concerning the ITIE implementation process. The
Government has submitted to the ITIE secretariat a request for membership in this
process. In connection with ITIE implementation activities in CAR, a workshop/seminar
for partners involved in the development of this sector will be organized in Bangui in
early 2008 in collaboration with the ITIE secretariat.

76. Declaration of personal assets of politicians and top government officials. In
application of the provisions of the Constitution (Articles 26, 44, 50 and 75), the
President of the Republic, the Primer Minister and members of government have declared
their personal assets at the time of their assumption of office and departure from office.
The Prime Minister initiated a measure on this subject and a specific order concerning the
Treasury, Budget, and Tax Directorates, as well as those directly responsible for the
management of public moneys (e.g., the heads of public enterprises) is to be published.
Follow-up on implementation of this measure by top government officials will continue
under the HIPC initiative.

77. Strengthening of ANIF. The text establishing ANIF is available and meetings held
with the Minister of Finance during the mission made it possible to accelerate the
implementation timetable of this measure. The members of ANIF (an agency created by
Decree N° 05.042 dated February 25, 2005) were appointed by Decree N° 07.274 dated
September 29, 2007. ANIF received a budget allocation under the 2008 budget.

78. Anti-corruption efforts. The fight against corruption consisted of opening
investigations into cases of overt corruption and of imposing sanctions on the guilty
parties. The Minister of Justice provided the mission with 2006 and 2007 statistics
illustrating the Administration's efforts in this area.

79. Updating of telecommunications sector legislation. The Administration has drawn
up a law governing the telecommunications sector; the draft thereof has been conveyed to
the Office of the Parliament. During preparation of this draft, the World Bank sent two
consultants to make recommendations aimed at integrating best telecommunications
practices into the law. The draft law has been discussed with private sector
representatives, and the Government has sought an opinion from the International
Telecommunications Union concerning a revision and final touches to the draft law. The
draft law setting forth nationally applicable taxes and fees for the establishment and/or
operation of telecommunications networks and services and a law regulating
telecommunications in CAR were approved by the National Assembly on November 15,
2007. These texts are scheduled to be promulgated soon by the President of the Republic.

80. Reorganization of the business environment through revision of the Investment
Code in accordance with the CEMAC Investment Charter. Revision of the Code is
underway with UNDP support. A committee is currently revising the Investment Code of
CAR on the basis of CEMAC guidelines. The final version is expected in early January



                                                                                   51

2009. In early November 2007, the Government held an EDIC validation seminar, with
the result that a priority action plan was finalized and then approved by the Council of
Ministers.

81. Management of forestry resources. The mission took note of progress made by the
Government in ensuring sustainable management of forestry resources and in steadily
improving transparency. Revision of the Order setting forth the procedure to allocating
PEAs was completed, and the international regulation establishing procedures for the
award committee was drawn up and approved. In this connection, a second call for bids
was published in Jeune Afrique and on the Government's website during the third quarter
of 2007 for the submission of two operation and development permits located in the
Ombelle Mpoko and Lobaye prefectures. The last two permits were given out in early
November 2007. The World Bank is now awaiting the evaluation reports on these offers.




                                                                                 52

Lessons learned from program implementation

Implementation of this Program has enabled the country to renew its relationship with the
international financial community through an economic program supported by the
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF).

At the same time, finalization of the PRSP and the preparation of various legal texts have
enabled local managers to gain first-hand knowledge of the reforms underway.

Guaranteed funding has made it possible to avoid delays in implementing structural
measures.

Active coordination between partners is needed for optimal and appropriate management
of external resources.




                                                                                    53

List of Supporting Documents

Joint Interim Strategy Note for CAR - Report number 37974, November 28, 2006

CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC: Development Policy Operation (P102576) - Quality
at Entry Assessment for FY06-07 (QEA8)

IMF Staff Report for the 2007 Article IV Consultation - First Review Under the Three-
Year Arrangement Under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility, September 13,
2007

IMF Staff Report for the 2007 Article IV Consultation - Second Review Under the Three-
Year Arrangement Under the Poverty Reduction and growth Facility, June 4, 2008

Aide Memoires.




                                                                                 54

55

