Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H257-CA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Reengagement and Institution Building Support Grant) 
 
between 
 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 28, 2006 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H257-CA 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated November 28, 2006, entered into between CENTRAL AFRICAN 
REPUBLIC (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in 
the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and 
which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework. 
WHEREAS, the Recipient has cleared its arrears to the Association; and 
WHEREAS, the Recipient and the Association have agreed to resume the Association’s 
activities in favor of the Recipient;  
the Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the 
Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to fifty five million four 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 55,400,000) (the
 “Grant”); 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are December 15 and June 15 in each year.
Page  3
-
2
-
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Euro. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension is when a situation has arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for 
international cooperation. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Minister of Economy, Planning and International Cooperation 
Ministry of Economy, Planning and International Cooperation 
Bangui 
Central African Republic 
Facsimile: 
(236) 61 96 89 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 
 
By: 
     /s/ 
Sylvain 
Maliko 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By: 
     /s/ 
Ali 
M. 
Khadr 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions already taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following: 
(i) 
The Recipient has adopted and published a transitional results-based policy 
framework satisfactory to the Association.  
(ii) 
The Recipient has adopted a 2007 macroeconomic framework satisfactory to the 
Association, in particular with respect to budget financing assurances. 
(iii) 
The Recipient has opened attendance to the Treasury Committee to the donor-funded 
technical advisers
 to the Recipient’s Minister in charge of finance.   
(iv) 
The Recipient has introduced a request for the Court of Accounts (
Cour des 
Comptes
)
to have an audit of the government accounts and Treasury operations for 
fiscal year 2006 performed by an independent audit firm.  The Court of Accounts 
shall select the audit firm on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association and the mission of the auditors shall start no later than March 31, 2007. 
(v) 
The Recipient has published a report deemed sufficiently transparent by the 
Association on the use of cash advances (
caisses et régies d’avance
)
for the period 
January-September 2006 so as to establish a baseline, and proposing an action plan to 
strengthen monitoring of funds. 
(vi) 
The Recipient has provided for: (a) the mandatory provision by all beneficiaries of 
cash advances of documentary evidence justifying the use of these public funds prior 
to being eligible for new cash advances, and for: (b) the mandatory repayment of all 
cash advances not properly justified (including through retention from salary). 
(vii) 
The Recipient has integrated revenues retained by, and advances to, all ministries, 
departments and agencies, as well as all other public revenue or cost items, into the 
State public accounts. 
(viii) 
The Recipient has launched an audit of the one-stop-shop customs office in Douala. 
(ix) 
The Recipient has merged the payroll database and the personnel records database 
and has deleted from the unified database all ghost public servants identified. 
(x) 
The Recipient has created a financial core team in the judiciary. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(xi) 
The Recipient has invited the holders of telecommunication licenses to clear their 
arrears in order to avoid suspension of their licenses at the expiration of the cure 
period. 
(xii) 
The Recipient has established a panel of international experts with authority to give 
written and motivated consultative opinions (on the basis of terms of reference 
prepared by the Recipient’s Inter ministry Committee and satisfactory to the 
Association) to the Recipient’s Inter ministry Committee and the Council of 
Ministers prior to their review of any draft agreement in the mining and energy 
sectors.  These motivated advisory opinions will be made available to the Association 
for information on a strictly confidential basis. 
(xiii) The Recipient has provided for the mandatory publication on the 
website:http://www.finances-rcagouv.com/ of: (i) the summary of all mining 
agreements including the key terms and conditions (such as, 
inter alia
,
the tax and 
financial provisions, the term of the agreement, the amount of the mining bonuses 
and equity transferred); and (ii) the evidence and justifications of the allocation of the 
mining bonuses and equity shares on the accounts of the Recipient and the 
description of the use of such funds. 
(xiv) 
The Recipient has effectively published on the website:http://www.finances-
rcagouv.com/: (i) the summary of the mining agreements already signed as of the 
date of this Agreement, including the key terms and conditions (such as, 
inter alia
,
the tax and financial provisions, the term of the agreement, the amount of the mining 
bonuses and equity transferred); and (ii) the evidence and justifications of the 
allocation of the mining bonuses and equity shares on the accounts of the Recipient 
and the description of the use of such funds. 
(xv) 
The Recipient has informed the Association of its intention to adhere to the 
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). 
(xvi) 
The Recipient has prohibited any special forest harvesting permits. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Single Tranche: 
Part (A)  
Part (B)  
Part (C)  
 
43,873,428 
6,926,572 
4,600,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
55,400,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request for 
withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain the following two deposit 
accounts (“Deposit Accounts”) designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the Association: 
 
(a) 
a deposit account in Euro (“Deposit Account B”) for the withdrawal of the funds 
of Part B of the Grant; and  
 
(b) 
a deposit account in CFA Francs (“Deposit Account C”) for the withdrawal of 
the funds of Part C of the Grant 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing into 
either of 
Deposit Accounts
,
an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have both Deposit Accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months 
after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such 
audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit Accounts and 
their audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that 
an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the 
Page  9
-
8
-
amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such 
request shall be cancelled.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is November 30, 2007. 
Page  10
-
9
-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
Page  11
-
10
-
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds during the procurement 
or execution of such contract, without the Recipient (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation. 
2. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
3. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated November 2, 2006 from the Recipient to the Association (Letter of 
Development Policy) declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during its execution. 
4. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
5. 
“Deposit Accounts” means collectively the Deposit Account B and the Deposit Account 
C
referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, Section II, Paragraph (C) (1) (a) and (b) 
respectively. 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
Page  12
-
11
-
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
Page  13
-
12
-
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
