Report No. 719a-CR                                                                           ELE  COPY
Appraisal of the                                                                                              - -
Fifth Power Project
Costa Rica
May 21, 1975
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Official rate prior to March 30, 1974:    Free rate prior to March 30, 1974
and off:Lcial rate thereafter:
US$1        =  6.65 colones (0)            US$1           =  ¢8.6o
ol          = us$o.0 15                     1             =  us$0.12
¢1,000      =  us$150o                      1,000         =  US$116
01 million  =  US$150,376                  01 million    =  US$116,279
Units and Equivalents
kW                 =  kilowatt
MW                 =  Megawatt = 1,000 kW
kWh                 = kilowatt hour
GWAh               =  Gigawatt hour = 1 million kWh
kV                 =  kilovolt
kVA                =  kilovolt - ampere
MVA                =  Megavolt - ampere = 1,000 kVA
m                   = meter = 3.28 feet
km                 =  kilometer = 0.62 mile
km2                -  square kilometer = 0.39 square mile
Acronyms and Abbreviations
ALCOA          -         Aluminum Company of America
CABEI          -         Central American Bank for 'Economic Integration
CNA            -         Comision Nacional de Aluminio
CNFL           -         Compania Nacional de Fuerza y Luz
DEL            -         Direct Exchange Line
ENALUF         -         Empresa Nacional de Luz y] Fuerza (Ilicaragua)
FIV            -         Fondo de Inversiones de Venezuela
ICE            -         Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad
IDB            -         Inter-American Development Bank
RACSA          -         Radiografica Costarricense S. A.
SNE            -         Servicio Nacional de Electricidad
Fiscal Year Ends December 31



APPRAISAL OF FIFTH POWER PROJECT - COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE D)E ELECTRICIDAD (ICE)
Table of Contents
Page no.
Summary and Conclusions                                            i
1.   Introduction                                                       1
2.   The Sector                                                         3
Energy resources                                                  3
Organization of the electric power sector                         3
Electricity consumption, rural electrification and tariffs        4
Sector development                                                5
3.  The Program and Project                                             7
Program through 1982                                               7
Description of the project                                         7
Estimated cost and financing                                       9
Engineering                                                      10
Project execution                                                 10
Procurement and disbursement                                     L1
Environment                                                       11
Project risks                                                     12
4.   Justification of the Project                                      13
Greneral                                                          13
Demand and generation forecast                                    13
Least cost solution                                               14
Return on investment                                              14
5.   The Borrower                                                      16
Organization, management, staff and training                      16
Organizational separation                                         16
Construction activities                                           16
6.   Finance                                                           18
Summary                                                           18
Accounting systems and auditors                                   18
Revaluation                                                       18
Power section financial results                                   19
CNFL financial results                                            20
Power section finRncing plan                                      20
Future financial position of ICE power section and CNFL           22
ICE telecommunications section finances                           22
7.   Recommendations                                                   24
This report has been prepared by Messrs. John E. Graves, Manfredo
Linder and Andre Leoni.



List of Annexes
1.   Details of Previous Bank Lending to ICE
2.   Organization and Regulation of the Electric Power Sector
3.   Performance Indicators
4.   Electricity Tariffs in Costa Rica
5.   Boruca Hydroelectric Development
6.   Arenal Hydroelectric Development
7.   Description of the Project
8.   Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
9.   Demand, Generation and Sales Forecast
10.   Dry Season Energy Requirements
11.   Least Cost Solution
12.   Return on Investment
13.   Organization, Management and Training
14.   Power Section Financial Statements and Forecas,ts
15.   CNFL  Financial  Statements  and  Forecasts
16.   Telecormunications Sectloh Financial Statements and Forecasts
Map - World Bank - 11454



APPRAISAL OF FIFTH POWER PROJECT - COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD (ICE)
Summary and Conclusions
i.        This report appraises the filth power project of the Instituto
Costarricense de Electricidad (ICE), which has reqaested Bank assistance
in its financing.
ii.       Since 1961 the Bank has provided major financial assistance to
Costa Rican power development through four loar-s to ICE totalling US$39.8
million.  The first three projects have been completed, although
with delays and cost overruns (see paragraph iv).   Most components
of the fourth project, which involves no major civil works, are in
service.  Completion of the rest is expected by year-end 1976, one year be-
hind schedule.  Through its power lending, the Bank has stimulated improve-
ments in 1iJUity regulation in Costa Rica and in ICEts organization.  Par-
tially as a result of discussions with the Bank, 1CE has recently eompleted
Costa Ricats first national riral electrification plan, which wouild ex,ead
electric service to about 16,000 customers, increising rural coverage from
50% to 63% by 1979.
iii.      ICE, a government-owned autonomous institution, is also responsi-
ble for telecommunications development, for which it has received four Bank
loans totalling US$57 million. The first two of its telecommunications pro-
jects have been completed successfully, and the second two are progressing
satisfactorily.
iv.       In the past, the Bank has been particularly concerned about ICEts
insistence on planning, engineering and constructing its projects with its own
forces and about serious cost overruns and delays in construction works. The
most serious overruns were encountered in the Tapanti tunnel financed under the
third Bank-financed project. While unforeseeable adverse geological conditions
beyond ICE's control were the main cause of overrun, ICE might have lessened the
extent of the problem somewhat by hiring consultants before the problem arose.
ICEVs experience has resulted in its taking some remedial actions in recent
months. Instead of relying solely on its own staff for design and construction
of the Arenal development (financed by a US$50.5 million Inter-American Develop-
ment Bank loan approved in January 1975), ICE has called for consultantsO assist-
ance where it has no experience (e.g., in designing the dam, studying seismologic
conditions and using geophysical procedures to analyze subsurface conditions in
the tunnel area), and it has or is planning to put the most important Arenal con-
struction jobs (viz, the dam and penstock) out to tender.  While these steps
reduce the possibility of inadequate design and construction of the major project
components, it is still expected that the Arenal project will be finishpd a year
behind the original schedule and with significant cost overruns. However, ICE's
difficulties have been related to major civil works (such as tunnels and dams),
not minor ones (such as powerhouse construction or extension), equipment instal-
lation or transmission line erection. Because the Bank-financed project described
below does not include major civil works, project execution should be well within
ICE's capability without the aid of consultants.



- ii -
v.        The project represents ore third of ICE's power construction progran
for 1975-78, the largest component of which is the 135 MW first stage of Arenal.
The project includes: 62 ThT in extensions to ICE's Rio Macho and Cachi hydro
plants, both previously built with Bank- assistance; a new 30 1U diesel plant
at Mo_n on the Cari'bbean coast (or a transmission line to interconnect its
system with the Nicaraguan utilivty's as an alternative to the diesel plant,
if arrangements necessary to build the line can be completed in time); trans-
mission worzTs related to both Arenal and the generating facilitles included
in the project; extensions of transmission/distribution networks; and stuldies.
The project's est'mated cost and f4nancing requirement are IJS$46n and UTS$70
milldon, respectively, including foreign components of US$Lh and JS$52 million
respectively. It is scheduled to be completed by year-end 1978.
v;.       The proposed US$bI1 m;llion loan would cover about 79' of the pro-
ject's foreign financing requirement. A US$11 million loan from the Central
American Bank of Economic Integration (CA3EI), or supplier :inancing if part
of the CAB;Fr loan were not available, would corer the balance.  TCI. would lise
net internal cash veneration, proceeds of oonds sold to local investors and
loans from the Fondo de inversiones de Vene-euela and CABEI to meet the local
costs of its program., including the oroject. Its financing plan is satis-
factory.
vii.      ICE's Dower staff will engineer all works incluided in the project
and install most of t'hem.. This arrangement is satisfactory, as no major
civilt workTs are involved and ICE has experience wiLth the ty,pe of works it
proposes to undertake.
Xr;ii.    Procurement of Bank-financed items wouldl be throlugh international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bankqs guidelines. Because of
the need to install the hydro units included in the project as soon as pos-
sible to replace costly thermal generation and the lead time involved in the
manufacture of su^~h units, TCE might sign contracts for them prior to loan
signing; retroactive financinFg of US$1.5 million for their down payments is
recormmended.
ix.       Over the longer term, ICE is expected to participate in regional
power development.  To this end, ICE and the Nicaraguan utility are studying
interconnection of their systems and a large hydro development on the San Juan
river, which forms the border between the two countries. For the immediate
future, however, most or all of Costa Rica's electricity needs would be served
by its own resources, including the project.  Tne purposes of the project are
to replace as much expensive thermal generation as possible by installing
hydro units at existing plarnts, thereby offsetting the adverse  mpa_t
of the energy crisis, to provide necessary dry season capacity prior to com-
pletion of th,e Arenal hydro development, and to improve the quality of elec-
tric service 'n Costa Rica.  The Bank would alsc cortinr) to pursue its
oejectives of stimulating further improvements (see paragraph ii) in ratio-
nalizing Costa Rica's powei sector and the regulation thereof, and In providing
riral electrification.  The generating components of the project represent the
'east-cost solution to meeting Costa Ricats power needs for di.scount rates of
up to 21 , and thie t-asnsission components, for all discount rates.  The rate
of return ora the generation components and associated trans,mission works of
the project investmert is estimated to be at least 15 %.



- iii -
x.        For the time being, ICE is able to serve the two sectors - power
and telecommunications - reasonably satisfactorily because of the organiza-
tional autonomy of its power ard telecommunications departments.
xi.       ICEts power section has recovered from severe financial difficulties
in 1973-714 caused in large part by cost overruns of the third project. The
Financlal performance of its telecommunications section has always been strong.
To establ4ish power and telecommunications tariffs which adequately reflect
recent severe price inflation  r Costa Rica, ICE has put into effect a full
revaluation of its power and te]. o:rnmunications rate bases and applied for
telecom-municat;ions tariff increases (no power tariff increases are necessary
now). Assuming that tariff adjustrPor'.s sufficient to produce rates of return
of 9' and 12'^ respectively on revalued power and telecommunications rate bases
are put into effect as promptly as necessary in the future, the finiaicial per-
formance of both sections is expected to .e satisfactory during the project
period.
xii.      The project would form a suitable basis for a US$1l million loan
with a term of 25 years including four years of grace. The loan would be
made to ICE and guaranteed by the Republic of Costa Rica.



I



APPRAISAL OF FIFTH POWER PROJECT - COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD (ICE)
1. Introduction
1.01      This report appraises the fifth power project in Costa Rica, for
which the Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad (ICE) has sought Bank
assistance.
1.02      The project represents one third of ICE's power construction pro-
gram for 1975-78, the largest component of which is the first stage (135 MW)
of the Arenal hydroelectric development, whose foreign cost is to be financed
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). The project includes: 62 K4
in extensions to ICE's Rio Macho and Cachi hydro plants, both previously ,uilt
with Bank assistance; a new 30 MW diesel plant at Moin on the Caribbean coast
(or a transmission line to interconnect its system with the Nicaragivtn utility's
as an alternative to the diesel plant, if arrangements necessary tc build the
line can be completed in time); transmission works related to both Arenal and
the other generating facilities included in the project; extensions of trans-
mission/distribution networks; and studies. The project's estimated cost is
Us$60.3 million, including a US$44.3 million foreign component. The total
financing required for the project is US$70.4 million, including a US$52 mil-
lion foreign component.
1.03      The Bank has provided major financial assistance to electric power
development in Costa Rica through four power loans totalling US$39.8 million,
which have financed most of ICE's hydraulic generating capacity, much of its
thermal capacity, and related transmission works (see annex 1 for details).
The first three power projects have been completed, although with significant
delays and cost overruns (see paragraph 5.05).  The fourth project involves
no major civil works; its principal components are in se-vice, and completion
of its remaining components will be delayed about a year. -
1.04      In addition to financing works, the Bank, particularly in the fourth
power project, has attempted to help resolve inefficiencies in Costa Rica's
electric power sector, the most prominent of which have been an excessive
number of electricity suppliers and regulatory difficulties (see paragral Is 2.05
following) and organizational difficulties within ICE (see paragraph 5.04).
Satisfactory pirogress in the resolution of these problems has been made, and
further progress is expected. The Bank would seek to extend this progress
through the proposed loan by providing assistance in rationalizing the country's
electric tariff structures (see paragraph 2.09).
1.05      The Bank has also made four telecommunications loans, also oetailed
in annex 1, totalling US$57 million to ICE. The first two telecormmunications
projects have been completed successfully, and the second two are proceeding
satisfactorily.
1.06      The proposed US$41 million Bark loan would cover about 79% and 39%
respectively of the project's and progral's (including Arenal) foreign re-
quirements. The Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI), or
supplier financing if part of the CABEI loan were not available, would pro-
vide the remaining US$11 million foreign financing for the project, ICE's
net internal cash generation, sales of bonds to local investors and loans



-2-
from CABEI and the Fondo de Inversiones de Venezuela (FIV) would provide
the program's local-currency requirements.
1.07      This report is based on a feasibility study of the project pre-
pared by ICEts power section and on the findings of an appraisal mission
composed of Messrs. John E. Graves, R. E. Salazar, Nikola R. Holcer,
Manfredo Linder and Andrew Waldrop, which visited Costa Rica in December
1974.



-3-
2. The Sector
Energy resources
2.01      Costa Rica has no known coal reserves.  Minor discoveries of oil
have been made near Turrialba and south of Puerto Limon (see map), but these
were not commercially significant. The government plans to begin offshore
oil exploration in the Caribbean in association with a French firm; the
timing of this program will depend on the availability of offshore drilling
rigs.
2.02      Surface investigations have revealed the existence of geothermal
deposits in Guanacaste. With a US$1 million grant/loan (under whose terms
the amount drawn down is considered a loan only if the studies result in
eventual construction of a generating facility) from IDB, ICE will engage
consultants to study the possibility of using these deposits to generate
electricity.  The studies, which include subsurface exploration, are sched-
uled for completion by year-end 1976.
2.03      Costa Ricats most abandant energy resource  is hydroelectric.  ICE
has identified 37 sites with a potential of 10,000 MW and annual generation
of about 50,000 GWh within the country, which represents about 30 times the
country's 1973 power and energy demands. ICEts future plans focus on ocevelop-
ment of the most economic sites, as discussed in paragraphs 2.10-12.
Organization of the electric power sector
2.0h      As detailed in anniex 2, ICE and its 92%-owned subsidiary, Compania
Nacional de Fuerza y Luz (CNFL), are the largest sector entities; together,
they generate 93< of the country's public-service electricity supply.  The
interconnected system, which serves Costa Ricats most densely populated area
(see map), includes 10 other entities, the largest of which are juntas admi-
nistrativas de servicios elfctricos of three municipalities near San Jose -
Cartago, Heredia and Alajuela.  About 35 entities, including ICE, serve iso-
lated communities outside the interconnected system.
2.05      Previous Bank appraisal missions have observed that unsatisfactory
sector organization and regulation were resulting in a lack of coordinated
planning and standardization, inefficiencies associated with an excessive
r:mber of utility enterprises and uneconomic tariffs.  The fourth power
project (loarn 800-CR) included funds for consultants tc study and recommend
improvements c--mcerning sector orgarization, efficiency and regulation. The
consultantst (TJrw4 ck Tnternational 1 the UK) findings, discussed in detail
in annex 2, we>re: that ICE should initiate steps to absorb CLTFL as a first
step in sector irTegration; and that Servicio Nacional de Electricidad (SNE),
the regulatorr agency, should be disbanded.  As indicated in annex 2, ICE,
OTTFL and SIJE have begun to inprovre the situation, so that the more drastic
stens proposed by Urwick are no longer necessary.
2.06     T;hile many sector problemis remain, the situation is improving.
The total number of public-service electricity- entities has been reduced
from 57 in 1971 to 45 in 1974, and further consolidation is expected in



-4
conneetion with ICE's rural electrification progrEam (see paragraph 2.08).
Portions of the interconnected system are prone to outage, sometimes for
extended periods. The transmission works and load dispatching system in-
cluded in the project are intended to improve this situation (see paragraph
4.01). ICE, through board membership and/or part ownership, participates
in the major utilities, which - except in Cartago - provide adequate service.
SNEts responsiveness to the utilitiest needs for tariff action has improved
noticeably since late 1973; it approved in 197h, with reasonable speed, two
electric tariff increases sufficient to provide ICE a reasonable return in
the face of high price inflation and currency devaluations, as detailed in
annex 2. Continued improvement is expected, particularly after completion
of a study needed for rationalization of Costa Rican tariff structures
(see paragraph 2.09).
Electricity consumption, rural electrification and tariffs
2.07      As shown below, the electricity market cf Costa Ricats largest
distributing utilities is predominantly residential. This market distribu-
tion, which contrasts with the predominance of industrial sales in other
Central American utilities' markets, reflects Costa Rica's higher per-capita
income and better income distribution.
Actual              Estimated              Projected
GWh 1971 717     GWh 197 T              rTWh 1979
GWh                           __ GWh Frw 
Residential        493      54           615      53            865      50
Commercial         1h2      16           193      17            314      18
Industrial         257      28           325      28            512      29
Other               23       2            31       25                     3
Total           915     100        1,169      100                    100
2.08      According to 1973 census data, about 210,000 households were re-
ceiving electricity supply, representing over 90% and 505 respectively, of
the urban and rural population.  In most rural areas, installation of other
types of infrastructure has proceeded more rapidly than electric supply faci-
lities.  To the extent that such facilities have been installed, this has
been done without a national program, principally through establishment of
co-operatives in silected areas(see annex 2), funded by the US Agency for
International Development (USAID), IDM, the government and ICE. As a result
of pressure from the Bank and government., ICE, which prior to 1974 had given
a low priority to rural electrification, completed in April 1975 a feasibility
study of a rural electrification program to provide electric service to over
16,000 new customers by 1979. ICE intends to apply for a loan of about US$13
million from IDBvs Fund for Special Operations to meet most of the US$17 lnl-
lion cost of the program's first stage (1976-78); it would meet the balance
of the cost from its own resources. As shown in annex 3, ICE expects that
the market penetration of urban and rural areas in Costa Rica w111 increase
to 94% and 63% respectively by 1979.
2.09      Rational sector development requires an orderly tariff structure.
In Costa Rica, however, each distributing entity has its own tariff schedule;
this diversity and the underlying reasons for it are described in annex 4.



-5-
Because ICEts and SNE's staffs lack experience in tariff-structure rational-
ization, and because the other utilities might not accept such a study if
prepared by ICE staff, the proposed loan includes funds for cpnsultants to
study and make recommendations concerning tariffs and tariff structures in
Costa Rica. As detailed in paragraph 4 of annex 4, the study would not only
analyze tariff structures but also examine, (i) the declining-block-rate
approach for residential consumntion, and (ii) prining incentives to stimu-
late offpeak electricity consumption. In the proposed loan agreement, ICE
would covenant to submit proposed terms of reference for the Bank's review
within one month of the loan's effectiveness, to engage consultants within
six months of the Bank's approval of the terms of reference, to make the
study available to SNE and to discuss the cunsultantst findings with the
Bank and SNE promptly upon conclusion of the study. SNE has confirmed that
it will cooperate with the consultants and discuss their findings with the
Bank pi'omptly upon conclusion of the study.
Sector development
2.10      In order to meet its incremental electricity needs in the immediatoé
future, i.e., until completion of the 135 MW first stage of the Arenal hydro
development (see cthapter 3), ICE will need to supplement its hydroelectric
resources by thermal generation as required during the dry season. Once
Arenal is put into service, ICE would use the country' hydro (and geothermal,
if viable) resources to meet its electricity needs fo. the foreseeable future,
replacing thermal generation except for peak loads
2.11      Based on presently-available informatior., the next step after Arenal
would be the first stage (156 MW) of the Santa Rosa hydro development, down-
stream from Arenal and to be put into service in 1982, for which ICE would
seek Bank financing in 1977. ICE tentatively plans to have in operation by
1985 the 140 W Angostura hydro development, a run-of-river scheme near
Turrialba which was expected to be the next development at the time of the
previous power appraisal (as indicated in report PU-77a dated January 19,
1972) but subsequently was found to be a higher-cost alternative than Arenal,
which also has the advantage of inter-annual storage capability.
2.12      However, favorable results of studies or negotiations currently in
progress or to be carried out in the future could alter ICE's generation plans.
These include:
a.   studies of Costa Rica's geothermal resources (paragraph 2.02);
b.   conclusion of negotiationis with Aluminum Company of America (Alcoa)
on the Boruc) hydr. developmenrt (annex 5), in which ICE is expected
to propose that the hydro plant also provide some firm power to
Costa Rica's public supply system as well as meeting the needs of
the aluminum smelter;
c.   studies of a possible interconnection of the Costa Rican and
Nicaraguan power systems. These studies are to be executed by
Kennedy & Donkin of the UK, which was selected by ICE and Empresa
Nacional de Luz y Fuerza (ENALUF) of Nicaragua, using a US$100,000
grant/loan from CABEI; and



- 6 -
d.   studies of the Rio San Juan hydro development on the Costa
Rica-Nicaragua border, whose output would presumably be used
by both countries.



-7-
3. The Program and Project
Program through 1978
3.01      ICE's power construction program through 1978 includes:
a.   completion of transmission works included in the fourth power
project (loan 800-CR) and other projects financed by IDB and
CAREI (mainly the Cachi-Moin transmission line financed by CABEI);
b.   the first (135 MW) stage of the Arenal hydro development (see
annex 6);
c.   the fifth power project, described below;
d.   initial construcoion of the first (156 NW) stage of the Santa
Rosa hydro plant, downstream from Arenal (see annex 6); and
e.   miscellaneous transmission, subtransmission, distribution and
isolated generating works to be financed and carried out by
ICE itself, plus a rural electrification program (paragraph 2.08).
As noted in paragraphs 2.11-12 TCE's program for future generating develc-
ments is subject to change because of negotiations and studies currently
under way.
Description of the project (see annex 7 for detailed description of the works)
3.02      The fifth power project consists of the following items:
a.   Generation facilities:
i.   extension of the Rio Macho hydro power plant by one 30 MW
unit;
ii.   extension of the Cachi hydro power plant by one 32 MW unit;
iii.   construction of a 30 MW diesel plant, fuel tank and substa-
tion at Moin on the Caribbean coast, or the Costa Rican
portion of a transmission line and related substation equip-
ment to interconnect ICE's system with ENALUF's (see para-
graph 3.03); ana
iv.   construction of a furl tank at ICE's San Antonio generating
plant.
b.   Transmission works:
i.   transmission lines and substations related to the Arenal
hydro plant;



-8-
ii.   additions to existing transmission lines and substations
related to the Rio Macho and Cachi extensions;
iii.   completion of the transmission-distribution ring around the
metropolitan area of San Jose, and related distribution
equipment (ICE would acquire certain of the distribution
items and subsequently transfer them to CNFL);
iv.   new transmission facilities to serve new or increased
loads outside San Jose; and
v.   a load dispatching system.
c.   Studies:
i.   of Costa Rica's tariff stiucture (paragraph 2..09);
ii.   of the electric system's stability; and
iii.   to prepare the specifications for the proposed load-
dispatching system.
ICE has agreed to engage consultants acceptable to the Bank for the three
studies, which are estimated to require forty man-months of consultants'
time.
3.03      Electricity demand in Nicaragua has not met expectations princi-
pally because of the effects of the December 1972 earthquake. Consequently,
ENALUF will have surplus energy and capacity (over and above its own needs
and projected sales to Honduras) through 1979, which would be more than
sufficient to meet ICE's dry-season needs during those years. If it could
be completed in time, construction of a 220 kV 90 km interconnection line
between ENALUF's and ICE's systems would be a lower-cost solution than the
Moin diesel plant to meet ICE's dry-season power needs until the commis-
sioning of Arenal. Substitution of the interconnection for the Moin plant
would also increase the break-even discount rate and rate of return of the
other project components because it would enable ICE to sell surplus wet-
season energy from its run-of-river plants to ENALUF, replacing the latter's
thermal generation. Difficulties are foreseen, however, in completing con-
tractual arrangements between the two utilities soon -enough to have the line
in service by January 1, 1977. Consequently, while the proposed loan agreement
provides for the inclusion of either the interconnection line or the Moin plant
in the project, the Bank has indicated to ICE that it wiLll select the Moin plant
if ICE and the government submit satisfactory evidence that, despite their rea-
sonable efforts to finalize arrangements, completion of the transmission line
by January 1, 1977 is urnlikely.  The Bark would make its decision by October J,
1975, by which date contractual arrangements for the MoiLn plant must be final-
ized if it is to be placed in service by the beginning of 1977.



- 9
Estimated cost and financing
3.o4     The project's estimated cost is US$60.3 million with a US$44.3 million
foreign component. Including interest during construction the corresponding
figures are US$70.4 million and US$52.0 million. The base costs were estimated
by the  Bank   together and in agreement with ICE's technical personnel, based
on information gathered in the Bank and recent quotations from manufacturers re-
ceived by ICE and updated to second quarter 1975. The costs are summarized below:
Colones (millions)       US$ (millions)
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
Rio Macho extenbon               A.7(   33.06   39.81    o.64       2.97    3.61
Cachi extension                 17.10    48.08   65.18    1.65     h.21    5.86
Moin Diesel plant including
substation and fuel tank       12.90    81.00   93.90    1.27      7.98    9.25
San Antonio fuel tank            0.h1     1.32    1.73    0.oh      0.13    0.17
Transmission related to Arenal  27.71    90.35  118.o6    2.51     8.07   10.58
Transmission related to Rio
Macho and Cachi                 6.15    '8.23   24.38    0.59      1.76    2.35
San Jose ring and distribution
equipment                      17.06    46.25   63.31    1.57     4.49    6.o6
Extension of existing trans-
mission equipment              20.68    42.65   63.33    1.83      3.90    5.73
Load dispatching equipment       2.58    13.68   16.26    0.22      1.20    1.42
Consultant studies                        2.06    2.06             0.20    0.20
Sub-total                  111 .3h   376.68  488.    19,.32    34.91   i5.23
Contingenci-i -physical         11.13    37.67   48.80    1.03      3.49    b.52
-price            51.96    64.75  115.71    h.66     5.91   10.57
Total project costs        174.43   479.10  $T3.53   16.C-    44.31   60.32
Financial charges               28.0'    89.76  117.83    2.39      7.69   10.08
Totnl financing required       202.50   568.86  771.36   18.40    52.00   70.4o
3.05      A physical contingency allowance of 10% was assumed for all project
items. This was considered sufficient because no major civil works are in-
volved.  Local and foreign price inflation, estimated using the annual infla-
tion percentages shown below, are reflected in the project cost estimates:
International         Local
1975                          12                 25
1976                          10                 20
177                           8                 15
1978                           8                 15
1979                           8                 10



- 10 -
3.o6      The foreign cost of the project would be financed as below:
- - -millions of US$_ - _
IBRD       CABEI      Total
Rio Macho extension                              2.97                   2.97
Cachi extension                                  4..21                  4i.21
Moin diesel plant including substation
and fuel tank                                   7.98                   7.98
San Antonio fuel tank                            0.13                   0.13
Transmission related to Arenal                   2.01        6.06       8.07
Transmission related to Rio Macho
and Cachi                                       0.81        0.95       1.76
San Jose ring and distribution equipment         3.28         1.21      4.149
Extension of existing transmission
equipment                                       3.90                   3.90
Load dispatching equipment                       1.20                   1.20
Consultant studies                               0.20                   0.20
Sub-total                                  26.69         8.22      34.91
Contingencies -physical                          2.67        0.82       3.49
-price                            5.11        0.80       5.91
Financial charges                                6.53         1.16      7.69
Total                                      41.00        11.00      52.00
Engineering
3.07      ICE's own staff will carry out the engineering necessary for the
execution of the project. This is acceptable as there are no major civil
works involved, and ICE has experience with similar works.
Project execution
3.08      The execution of the project will be carried out as follows:
a.   ICE will request bidders for the diesel plant, fuel tanks and
transmission lines to submit offers on both a furnish-and-install
basis and a materials-and-equipment-only basis, tl-nreby enabling
installation using its cwn forces (under the saperlv  ior of sup-
pliers, as necessary) when it proves econoznic;
b.   ICE's own staff under the supervision of suppliers will erect the
hydraulic generating and substation equipment;. and
c.   ICE's construction crew will be in charge of the civil works in-
volved in both hydro extensions and the power house of the Moin
diesel plant.
As detailed in paragraph 5.o5, ICE has experienced considerable delays and
cost overruns in executing past projects. However, its difficulties have
been related to major civil works (such as tunnels and dams), not minor ones
(such as powerhouse construction or extension), equipment installation or
transmission line erection. Because the project does not include major
civil works, participation of ICE forces in its execution is acceptable.



- 11 -
The estimated project completion date is December 1978. Completion dates
for the individual project components are indicated in annex 7. ICE has
confirmed that it will make its best efforts to achieve satisfactory per-
formance during the project period, as determined by the performance indi-
cators shown in annex 3.
Procurement and disbursement
3.09      All contracts for Bank-financed works, plant and equipment would
be awarded following international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.
3.10      Up to US$3.6 million equivalent of goods to be financed by the
Bank loan, principally conductors for the transmission lines and construc-
tion materials, might be obtained from manufacturers in the Central American
Common Market, including Costa Rica. As in past operations Costa Rica has
requested that such manmfacturers be granted a preference of 159 of the CIF
landed price or 50% of the import duties, whichever is lower. In the case of
Costa Rican manufacturers the Bank has agreed to reimburse ICE 95% of the cost
of these possible local purchases to exclude t,he element of local taxes.
3.11      Disbursements from the loan account would be made for:
a.   the C&F cost of imported equipment and materials,including foreign
currency costs of supervision erection;
b.   the foreign exchange costs of contracts awarded according to
paragraph 3.08a;           I
c.   the foreign exchange.costs of consultant studies;
d.   95% of the ex-factory cost of contracts awarded to Costa Rican
manufacturers; and
e.   financial charges on the Bank loan through September 30, 1978,
the semi-annual repayment date preceding the estimated completion
date of the project.
3.12      Because of the long delivery  periods for hydraulic generating units
and ICE's need to have the Cachi and Rio Macho units in operation at the
earliest possible moment to replace thermal generation, ICE might sign con-
tracts for the units prior to the assumed date (June 1975) of loan signing.
Therefore retroactive financing of up to US$1.5 million for the down payments
made after January 1, 1975 is recommended. Estimated loan disbursements are
shown in annex 8. Because of the ongoing nature of transmision/distribution
improvements, any unused loan balance could be applied to transmission/distri-
bution extensions similar to those included in the project after consultation
with the Bank.
Environment
3.13      The physical location of the proposed Moin diesel power plant is
in the vicinity of the existing oil refinery and sufficiently far from any
existing or planned future urban development. With specifications concern-
ing maximum sulfur dioxide emissions and thermal pollution control as



_ 12 -
suggested by the Bank included in the tender documents, the plant is not
expected to cause any additional problems for the urban population or
natural environment., With regard to the proposed new transmission lines,
ICE intends to take care in routing these lines in order to minimize the
visual impact.
Project risks
3.14      During its first two to three years of operation, the Arenal plant
will be linked to the load center through a transmission system, 86 km of
which consists of a single-circuit 220 kV line. Should this single-circuit
line fail during the dry season, ICE would have to shed some of its peak
load for the period needed for line repair because it lacks alternative dry
season generating capacity. ICE decided to accept the risk because:
a.   a single-circuit 220 kV IB-financed line already exists over
70 km of the route;
b.   a parallel line would cost about US$5 million; 'and
c.   double-circuit lines will be constructed in two or three years
over a different route to transport electricity from the nearby
Santa Rosa project to the load center, and from Arenal to Santa
Rosa, providing the necessary security at that time.
To minimize the risk for the intervening period ICE is taking the necessary
steps to prevent line outages as far as possible.
3.15      As worldwide demand for hydraulic generating units has increased,
delivery periods for this type of equipment have lengthened. A six-month
delay in the 18-month delivery time estimated for the project's hydro units
would require ICE to increase its fuel expenditures by US$2 to 3 million.
3.16      As indicated in annex 6, completion delays of at least one year are
expected for the Arenal development. Further delays would necessitate load
reduction (see paragraph 4.05).



- 13 -
4. Justification of the Project
General
4.01      Besides assisting the country in providing facilities to meet its
future demand for electricity in the most economic manner (see paragraphs
4.03 ff.), the Bank's objectives in lending for electric power development
in Costa Rica are:
a.   to help offset the adverse impact of the energy crisis on the
country's balance of payments (see paragraph 4.02a);
b.   to improve the quality of electric service through more efficient
system operation and more rapid response to outages (see para-
graph 4.02d);
c.   to stimulate the government and ICE to accelerate a rural electri-
fication program and consolidate the large number of public-service
electricity suppliers (paragraphs2.06 and 2.08);,and
d.   to develop a rational nationwide tariff structure (paragraph 2.09)
while maintaining suitable tariff levels (paragraphs 6.08 and 6.09).
4.02      The purposes of the project are:
a.   the two hydro extensions will replace expensive thermal generation
based on imported fuel and provide peaking capacity;
b.   the diesel power plant is intended to meet increasing load
during the dry season (January to May) in a critical hydrological
year until the commissioning of the Arenal hydro power plant in
late 1978. After that it is intended to be the main thermal
generation reserve for the dry season, replacing the Colima diesel
power plant (20 MW) and the San Antonio steam plant (10 MW), both
of wiich will have reached the end of their useful life by then.
The use of the higher-cost gas turbine power plants (San Antonio-
38 MW and Barrancas-40 MW, the only other thermal plants in the
interconnected system) will be for peaking purposes;
c.   the proposed transmission/distribution works are needed to transport
the electricity from the new generating sources to the load centers
and to minimize losses, as detailed in annex 7; and
d.   the load dispatching system is intended to provide a more economic
operation of the interconnected system and to obtain faster response
to partial or complete system outages.
Demand and generation forecast
4.03      Annex 9 gives details for energy generation and maximum demand for
the interconnected system, actual and forecast, on an annual basis for 1968
through 1981 as prepared by ICE. This projection, which assumes an average
annual 9.1% increase in generation from 1975 through 1981 and an average
annual 8.5% increase in maximum demand, is reasonable. To meet these energy
and demand requirements, ICE studied different alternatives and defined its
installation program of generating facilities as described in paragraph 3.01.



- 14 -
4.04      Costa Rica's hydrological conditions show a very clear difference
between the rainy season- June through December - and the dry season - Jan-
uary through May.  Because all existing hydroelectric generation facilities
are run-of-river developments, the interconnected system needs thermal sup-
port during the dry seaso-n (in 1973, load shedding of 36 Glh was necessary
during the dry season due to late commissioning of the San Antonio gas tur-
bine plant and a critical hydrological year). Annex 10 shows the necessity
for an additional 30 MAW of generating capacity to meet energy demands during
the dry season of 1977 and 1978 (under critical hydrological conditions).
4.05      As shown in annex 6, a reasonable estimate for the commissioning
of the first unit of Arenal is at the end of 1978. To allow for the contin-
gency of a delay in the construction program of Arenal or the failure of any
thermal unit during the dry season, ICE has agreed to prepare by the end of
1976 an energy conservation program satisfactory to the Bank, since addition
of further thermal generating capacity at that time would be inadvisable
(see annex 10). The conservation program might consist of modification of
working hours, elimination or reprogramming of television shows, lowering
of voltage, and reduction of commercial illumination.
Least cost solution
4.06      As shown in annex 11, the Rio Macho and Cachi extensions are the
least cost solutions for discount rates of 16.5% and 20.5% respectively when
compared to thermal generation supplied by existing units using a crude oil
price of US$9/barrel CIF.  This corresponds to anFOB Middle East price of
US$7.00 - 7.50, which is more than US$1.00 lower than the Bank's estimate of
US$8.65 (in 1974 constant dollars) for projected long-term prices. No other
hydro units could be installed as quickly as these units. For the proposed
30 MW thermal power plant, it was found that medium-speed diesel engines
were the least-cost solution-for discount rates up to above 18% and the same
crude oil price. Finally, it was found that the total generation facilities
of the project are the least-cost solution for discount rates up to 21% and
the same crude oil price when compared with an all-thermal alternative.
4.07      Tn analyzing the transmission works included in the project, it
was found that, where alternatives existed, those selected were the least
cost solutions for all discount rates.
Return on investment
4.08      Two calculations of the rate of return - defined as the discount
rate which equalizes the stream of expected revenues with associated costs -
were carried out, as detailed in annex 12:
i.   the first calculation considers the generation components of the
project and the associated transmission and distribution works.
The rate of return on the project investment is 15.3%; and
ii.   the second consideis the total investment program,
viz, the project plus the Arenal hydro development. The rate of
return on the program investment is 11.8%.
The economic rate of return is undoubtedly higher because the benefits to the
final consumer are not measured adequately by the electricity rates which
were used to calculate the benefit streams. These benefits include indirect



- 15 -
benefits to industry and cor.mmerce, whose production and employment depends
on public-service electricity supply as a prime source of motive power and
illumination; and the social benefits of residential and public uses of
electricity for lightlng and refrigeration. The rate of return on the
project investment of 15.3%, which is higher than the opportunity cost of
capital in Costa Rica, indicates that even or the basis of current tariffs
the prices paid by customers are, on average, greater than the marginal
cost of supply.
4.09      The sensitivity analysis in annex 1.2 shows that the rates of
return would be 14h6 and 10.7% respectively if investment and operating
costs were assumed to rise by 10.



- 16 -
5. The Borrower
5.01      The borrower would be ICE, a government-owned autonomous insti-
tution originally established in 1949 to plan and carry out a national
electrification program. A 1963 law empowered. it to provide telecom-
munications service within the country, and subsequent; laws have authori-
zed its participation in providing international telecommunications ser-
vices. ICE is required to carry out its operations completely indepen-
dently of the government, except for approval of tariffs and bond issues
and is tax-exempt except for an assessment to pay SNE's operating costs.
Organization, management, staff and training
5.02      The only substantial change in ICE's organization, which is
described in annex 13, since the most recent appraisa:L report (no. 417a-CR,
May 1974) is creation of the new post of executive president. The first
appointee's presence in this post has strengthened ICE's top management.
5.03      ICE's total staff numbers approximately 4,0'DO, of which the power
section has 1,300.  At about 1.5 employees per Gli generated, this is a
reasonably-sized staff, considering the need to retain a fairly large number
of engineers and supervisors for construction. Unski-Lled construction labor
is hired only when required.  ICE's technical staff is capable of carrying
out its power operations satisfactorily. As detailed in annex 13, ICE has
developed a thorough training program for its employees in conjunction with
Costa Rican training institutions.
Organizational separation
5.04      Previous Bank missions had urged ICE to consider organizational
separation of its two principal services, and ICE engaged Urwick to study
this matter.  As detailed in annex 13, Urwick found that separation offered
no immediate overall advantages although it might be desirable in the long run.
Independent of Urwick's recommendations, ICE in 1973 took an important step to-
wards sectional independence by establishing three sulb-managers - for power,
telecommunications and finance/administration - each reporting to the general
manager. To allow the two operating sections to continue to have the flexi-
bility necessary to meet the needs of their sectors,  ICE has agreed to the
continuing separate operation of and accounting for its power and telecom-
munications sections, repeating similar provisions contained in the fourth
telecommunications loan agreement (1006-CR).
Construction activities
5.05      In the past, the Bank has been particularly concerned about ICE's
insistence on planning, engineering and constructing its projects with its
own forces and its deteriorating performance in carrying out construction
works. The most serious overruns of those summarized below were encountered
in the Tapanti tunnel, where unforeseeable adverse geological conditions were
beyond ICE's control.



- 17 -
Approximate
completion delay         % cost
Loan no.      Project                   months          %          overrun
276-CR       Rio Macho                      5           8             16
346-CR        Cachi                        14          30             46
631-CR        Cachi extension              21          58             91
631-CR       Rio Macho extension
(Tapanti)                   18          30              88
800-CR        San Antonio gas turbines- L 4           25               1
The above succession of disappointing results has resulted in some remedial
actions being taken:   instead of relying solely on its own staff for de-
sign and construction of the Arenal development. TCE has called for con-
sultants' assistance where it has no experience (e.g., in designing the dam,
stulyl ng seismologic conditions and using geophys -al procedures to analyze
subsurface conditions in the tunnel area), and it has or is planning to put
the most important Arenal construction jobs (viz, the dam and penstock) out
to tender.  While these steps reduce the possibility of inadequate design
and construction of certain project components, they provide little assurance
that the project will be finished when needed or that its overall cost
estimate, if reasonable, will be met. As detailed in annex 6, ICE's com-
pletion and cost estimates for Arenal, on which IDB based its appraisal
report, were over-optimistic, so that we dlready expect significant comple-
tion delays and cost overruns (1 year and 25% respectively), even before
principal construction has begun. During project super ision, the Bank
would discuss with ICE t1- advisability of engaging an indepenident engineer-
ing consultant for overall project planning, sre eduling and .ost es'Lll1ting
of any future project involving significant civil construction.
* The intended installation of the gas turbines was advanced from the end-
1973 date shown in the appraisal report to beginning-1973 to meet dry-
season requirements, but actual commissioning did not take place until
April 1973. In any event, the project is not comparable with the others
.because no major civil works were involved.



- 18 -
6. Finance
Summary
6. 01     ICE's power section has recovered from se-vere financial diffi-
culties in 1973-74 (paragraph 6.08); but its contribution-to-expansion
ratio for the project period is somewhat low, in part because of those
difficulties (paragraph 6.10).  The financial performance of the telecom-
munications section has always been strong (paragraph 6.18). ICE has com-
pleted revaluation of its power and telecommunications assets necessary
to reflect recent high rates of worldwide and local price inflation, and
the proposed loan agreement provides for tariff increases to enable ICE to
earn a fair return on its revalued rate bases. Assuming that future re-
valuations and tariff adjustments resulting therefrom are put into effect
promptly, the financial performance of both of ICE's operating sections
is expected to be satisfactory during the project period.
Accounting systems and auditors
6.02      ICE's accounting systems are well-designed, enabling it to pre-
pare detailed reports reasonably promptly. It is studying Urwick's sug-
gestions concerning budgets and financial controls with a view toward
improving them.
6.03      ICE's external auditor (Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co.) has ob-
jected to Bank suggestions that ICE's foreign debt should be valued on
the basis of worldwide floating exchange rates existing at the date of
statement preparation (on the grounds that floating rates cause such
valuation to be valid only momentarily) and that its assets should be
revalued to reflect recent sqvere Costa Rican inflation, as detailed below.
The firm has suggested that it might qualify its certification of financial
statements wnich reflect asset revaluations, other than those to compensate
for changes in the exchange rate of the colon with respect to the US dollar;
this would be a subject of further conversations during loan supervision.
The proposed loan agreement repeats provisions that annual audited financial
statements and auditor's reports for both ICE and CNFL will be provided to
the Bank within four months of the close of their f'iscal years.
Revaluation
6.Q4      The central issue concerning ICE's finances has been revaluation.
Beginning in mid-1973, prices in Costa Rica have increased by at least 25%
annually, and higher-than-worldwide inflation rates, ar expected to prevail
in Costa Rica throughout the project period (paragraph 3.05).  The need for
revaluation of ICE's assets was recognized by the previous appraisal mission;
in the fourth telecom)munications loan agreement (1006-CR), ICE agreed to re-
value its telecormunications assets by October 1, 1974. Such revaluation
was to have been the basis for a tariff adjustment to increase ICE's telecom-
munications revenues by 50%, which was considered necessary by the appraisal
mission and ICE.
6.05      However, ICE failed to carry out its telecommunications revaluation
by the specified date and requested the 50% tariff increase on the basis of
cash needs for its expansion program. It received only about 30%, which
was sufficient to give it a 13% return for 1975 on its still-unrevalued rate
base but only 10.5% on a revalued rate base. This would be less than the 12%
return covenant in the 1006-CRP loan agreement.



- 19 -
6.06      After further discussions with the power appraisal mission, ICE
has completed a revaluation of all its assets based on the following indices:
a.   for local costs:  consumer price indices prepared by Costa Rica's
Direccion General de Estadistica y Censos;
b.   for foreign costs of electric plant:  construction/installation
cost indices prepared by the US Bureau of Reclamation; and
c.   for foreign costs of telecommunications plant:  installation cost
indices based on its own records.
Future use of these broad indices will permit ICE to prepare a reasonably accu-
rate estimate of the current value of its power and telecommunications rate
bases promptly and to systematize the revaluation process in a consistent man-
ner without undue effort.  The revaluation, which increased the end-1974 values
of ICEts electric and telecommunications rate bases by 48% and 42% respectively,
is satisfactory.
6.07      In its revaluation report, ICE has shown that its existing electric
rates (which were increased substantially in 1974 -see paragraph 12 of annex 2)
are sufficiently high to meet its rate-of-return covenant (see paragraph 6.08)
in 1975, but that the telecommunications section would need the balance of the
tariff increase - about 20% - which it was not granted in 1974 to meet its
rate-of-return covenant. ICE has requested SNE to grant the telecommunications
tariff increase as originally requested. W-hile CNFL has begun discussions
with SNE concerning methodology to be used in revaluation of its assets, com-
pletion of such revaluation is expected to require several months. To ensure
that all necessary actions concerning the initial asset revaluation are car-
ried out promptly, the Bank should not declare the loan effective until it
has been notified that telecommunications tariff increases sufficient to per-
mit ICE to earn a 12% return on its revalued telecommunications rate base
have been put into effect and that CNFL has revalued its assets in a satis-
factory manner. With respect to future revaluations, ICE has agreed to:
revalue its power and telecommunications assets, and cause CNFL to revalue
its operating assets, annually in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; reflect,
and cause CNFL to reflect, such revaluations in its books of account; reflect,
and cause CNFL to reflect,in its books of account the value of its foreign
debt in accordance with exchange rates prevailing at the date of financial
statement preparation.
Power section financial results
6.o8      Principally because of third power project cost overruns (para-
graph 5.05), ICE's power section was in severe financial difficulties in
1973 and early 1974. As a result of Bank suggestions concerning tariff
increases and refinancing its heavy commercial debt burden, its financial
situation has improved to acceptable levels by year-end 1974, as detailed
in annex 14.  Assuming that the power section implemests annual asset revalua-
tions sufficient to compensate for expected local inflation (paragraph 3.05)
and receives tariff adjustments sufficient to earn 9% on its revalued rate
base, its financial performance is expected to improve throughout the pro-
ject period. To ensure satisfactory financial performance, the proposed



- 20 -
loan and guarantee agreements repeat provisiorns conta-ela in e   r,ets
related to the fourth power project (loan 800-CR), whereby ICE agreed to
apply for tariff increases sufficient for it to earn 9<' on its revalued
rate base, and the government agreed to take all necessary action to en-
sure that tariff-increase applications would be resolved satisfactorily.
SNE has indicated that it will approve any tariff increase application
designed to enable ICEts power section to earn 9N on its reva-1Jed rate base
within 90 days of its submission.
CN.i'L financial results
6.09      As detailed in annex 15, CNFL9s previously adequate operating
results declined in 197h, when its rate of return was under 5$.  CNFL
received tariff increases to correct this situation early in 1975. The
proposed loan and guarantee agreements repeat existing covenants to the
effect that CNFL's tariffs will be set to provide sufficient revenues to
comply with its concession agreement,-which is based on cash needs for
construction after meeting debt service and dividend requirements.
Power section financing plan
6.10      During the four-year project period 1975-78l, the power sectionts
net internal cash generation, assuming implementation of required tariff
increases, will finance about 21% of its construction program plus additions
to working capital. This contribution-to-expansion ratio would be considered
too low if it were not for the following factors:
a.  despite the refinancing of its medium-term debt, originally
incurred to meet cost overruns of the third power project,
the power sectionts debt service is still abnormally high;
and
b. its construction program includes transmission works deferred
from the early 1970s because of third power project cash re-
quirements and hydro units whose planned installation dates
have been brought forward because of increases in fuel costs.
Were it not for these factors, the power section's contribution-to-expansion
ratio would approach a satisfactory 30%. The following table presents a sum-
mary financial plan, details of which are shown in the projected funds state-
ment included in annex 14. The Boruca hydro development (annex 5) and the
rural electrification program (paragraph 2.08) have not been included because
separate funding would be established for all of the Boruca project and most
of the rural program, and because the latter would incorporate additions to
the systems of various cooperatives as well as ICE's.



- 21 -
Financing plan 1975-78
- - - millions - - -
Requirerients of funds                         Colones        US$          %
Construction program:
Existing projects, continuing works
and studies                                   95          8.6
Arenal hydro project                         1,109        100.5
Fifth power project*                            769        70.1
Santa Rosa hydro project (partial)              261        21.7
Total construction                         2,234        200.9         96
Increase in working capital                        95         8.9          4
Total requirements                          2,329       209.5        100
Sources of funds
Net inco'me before interest plus depreciation  1,155        104.9
Less debt service                                 666        61.1
Net internal generation                        49                       21
Contributions                                      16         1.4          1
Borrowings:
Proposed:  IBRD                                 444        41.0         19
CABEI                               156        13.5          6
FIV                                 275         23.8        12
Local                               114         10.8         5
Total proposed                      989        T9J
Existing:  IDB (Arenal)                         549        50.5         24
Other                               148         13.9         7
Future (Santa Rosa)                             138        11.1          5
Total borrowings                           162.6 277
Total sources                              2,329        209.         100
* Project expenditures of 02.7 (US$0.3) million were made in 1974.
6.11      The proposed Bank loan would be made to ICE for a term of 25 years
including four years of grace at the current Bank interest rate, assumed to
be 8.5% p.a. It would be guaranteed by the Republic of Costa Rica.
6.12      ICE has applied to CABEI for an 8% 15 year (including four years
of grace) loan of US$11 million to finance the balance of the project's
foreign cost. and for US$2.5 million equivalent in local currency for part of
its local cost. CABEI's management has notified the Bank that it will recom-
mend to its board of directors that the project be considered for
financing.  Prior to declaring the loan effective, the Bank should be noti-
fied that CABEI has approved at least the foreign-currency component of the
loan. If, because of possible other high-priority demands on its limited
funds, CABEI were not able to supply the entire US$11 million foreign com-
ponent, the Bank would be prepared to consider supplier financing if it could
be arranged on satisfactory terms.
6.13      To meet the balance of the 1975-78 financial requirements further
financing of 0390 (US$34) million will be necessary, T'hile supplementary
IDB financing for Arenal foreign cost overruns and/or contributions from
the government could conceivably fill this financing gap, the most likely
sources are local sales of ICE bonds and loans from FIV.



- 22 -
6.14      Until 17("  i-E sold about ¢30 million of 8% 10- and 20-year bonds
annually to local private investors.  Because of increases in other borrowers'.
interest rates last vear, ICE was unable to sell s-uch bonds until late in the
year, when it increased the interest rate of its bonds to 12%.  Based on the
renewed favorable reception of its bonds by private investors, continued sales
of such bonds at prior levels are feasible, although it is conceivable that
ICE may have to increase the interest rate further to sell the bonds in an
inflationary economy. The proposed loan agreement repeats existing covenants
(with which ICE has complied) which limit the portion of bonds subject to re-
purchase-prior-to-maturity agreements to 30% of th,e aggregate amount of ICE/
CNFL bonds outstanding.
6.15      In December 1974 Costa Rica reached agreement with Venezuela where-
by the Venezuelan government would establish an oi:L facility to finance local
costs of certain projects. Both the project and the Arenal development appear
eligible for such financing from FIV, which would be long-term (up to 25 years)
at interest rates provided by the Bank or IDB. The Costaa Rican government has
declared its intention to make up to IJS-24 million of FIV funds availabIe to
TCE, w>lch would cover its financing gap for the project. period.
Future financial position of ICE power section and CNFL
6.16      Based on the assumptions of satisfactory revaluations and tariff
actions, the operating results and financial positions of ICE's power sec-
tion and CNFL are expected to be satisfactory, as detailed in annexes 14
and 15 respectively.
6.17      The debt service tests included in existing loan agreements, where-
by ICE and CNFL will not incur long-term debt without the Bank's approval
unless the most recent 12-month internal cash generation of ICE's power sec-
tion and CNFL, respectively, are at least 1.5 times their respective maximum
debt service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year, have been repeated
in the proposed loan agreement. Because their debt service throughout the
project period is expected to be high, Bank approval of future borrowings
is expected to be necessary.
ICE telecommunications section finances
6.18      As shown in annex 16, the financial performance of ICE's tele-
communications section has been strong, with rates of return of 12 to 15%
in the early 1970s.  This strong performance has enabled it to provide most
of the local-cost financing for its ambitious expansion program, relying on
the Bank and suppliers for foreign financing.
6.19      Tariff adjustments to increase ICE's telecommunications revenues
by about 30%, approved by SNE in December 1974, were less than the 50% in-
crease sought by ICE in September. Further tariff increases in 1975 are
expected as a result of telecommunications revaluation (paragraphs 6.05-07).



- 23 -
6.20      ICE has accelerated the completion date of its Stage IV expansion
by one year - from 1980 -to 1979 - and the start of Stage V by two years,
from those foreseen in the fourth telecommunications appraisal (report no.
417a-CR, May 1974), but this acceleration is subject to government review.
Assuming earnings of 12% on a fully revalued rate base, ICE's 1975-78 contri-
bution-to-expansion ratio of 30% would be lower than previously foreseen,
and its borrowings, correspondingly higher.  This financing plan would still
be acceptable.



- e4 -
7. Agreements Reached and Recommendations
7.01      In the proposed loan and/or guarantee agreements, the following
covenants have been repeated:
a.   ICE's continued separate operation of and accounting for its
power and telecommunications sections (paragraph 5.04);
b.   submission of audited financial statem-nts and auditor's
reports (paragraph 6.03);
c.   rate of return for ICE's power section (paragraph 6.08);
d.   tariffs for CNFL (paragraph 6.09);
e.   restriction of ICE/CNFL bonds outstanding under repurchase
agreements (paragraph 6.14); and
f.   debt-service coverage tests (paragraph 6.17).
7.02      In the proposed loan agreement, ICE would also agree to:
a.   engage consultants for tariff studies (paragraph 2.09)
and technical matters (paragraph 3.02c);
b.   prepare an energy conservation program (paragraph 4.o5); and
c.   revalue its power and telecommunications assets and foreign
debt annually, record such revaluation in its books of account,
and cause CNFL to do the same (paragraph 6.07).
7.03      In supplemental letters:  SNE would confirm that it will discuss
the tariff study included in the project with the Bank (paragraph 2.09) and
would give assurances concerning resolution of tariff-increase applicaLions
(paragraph 6.08); and ICE would indicate that it will make its best efforts
to meet specified performance indicators (paragraph 3.08).
7.0       Prior to declaring the loan effective, the Bank should receive
notification that:
a.   a telecommunications tariff increase to produce a 12% return
on ICE's revalued telecommunications rate base has been put
into effect (paragraph 6.07);
b.   CNFL has revalued its assets satisfactorily (paragraph 6.07); and
c.   CABEI has approved the foreign-currency component of its loar
or ICE has obtained suitable financing elsewhere (paragraph 6.12).
7.05      With  the above assurances, the project would constitute a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of TS$41 million for a term of 25 years with a f our-
year grace period.
May 21, 1975



APPRAISAL OF FIFTH POWER PROJECT - COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD (ICE)
Details of Previous Bank Lending to ICE
Loan         Loan          Loan amount           Project
number       date          (in US$ millior.-)   name                        Principal project components
POWER LOANS
276-CR       Feb. 1961            8.8          Rio Macho        First stage (2 x 15 MW) of Rio Macho hydro develop-
Hydroelectric    ment; 2 x 4 MW Colima diesel plant; 2 x 0.5 NW
Limon diesel plant; associated transmission.
346-CR       July 1963           12.5         Power and
(part)                                         Telecom.         First stage (2 x 32 MW) of Cachi hydroelectric
development; associated transmission.
631-CR       July 1969           12.0          Third Power      Second stage of Rio Macho development, including the
14.5 km Tapanti tunnel and 2 x 30 MW generating units;
second stage, of Cachi plant, including installation
of gates to raise the reservoir level ; associated
transmission.
800-CR       Feb. 1972            6.5         Fourth Power       2 x 19 NW gas turbines at San Antonio; 3 x 1 MW diesel
units; associated transmissionr consultants' studies.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS LOANS
346-CR (part) July 1963           9.5          Power & Telecom. Stage I:  26,000 DELs (later increased to 33,7CO).
632-CR        July 1969           6.5          Second Telecom.  Stage II:  22,500 DELs; 300 long-distance circuits.
801-CR        rel. 1972          17.5          Third Telecom.   Stage III:  25,000 DELs; 1000 long-distance circuits;
600 rural call offiees.
1006-CR       June 1974          23.5          Fourth Telecom.  Stage IVA:  56,300 DELs; 2500 long-distance circuits;
rural services; telex expansion.
February 1975



Annex 2
Page 1 of 4 pages
APPRAISAL OF FIFTH POWER PROJECT - COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD (ICE)
Organization and Regulation of the Electric Power Sector
Legal framework
1.        Although it is almost universally accepted that power  utilities
can only operate to maximum efficiency as monopolies, Costa Rica's electric
service law, enacted in 1941, stipulates that electric utilities should not
have territorial exclusivity. This unique conceptual aoproach has led to
organizational difficulties and inefficiencies in the electric power sector,
which have only recently begun to be overcome. Among the most serious of
them have been:
a.   a proliferation of enterprises serving the public and uneconomic
competition among entities (see paragraphs 2-9); and
b.   regulation problems (see paragraphs 10-13).
Sector entities: interconnected system
2.        In the interconnected system, which presently serves the central
plateau and portions of Guanacaste province (see map), there are no fewer
than 12 enterprises distributing electricity to the public. Of these, ICE/
CNFL is by far the largest, in terms of both number of customers (71% of
the total) and energy sold (i4%). ICE exerts some influence (through board
membership in the juntas administrativas and rural co-operatives and
part ownership of some co-operatives) over many of the other distribution
enterprises, and the relationships between the distribution entities (except
Cartago's - see paragraph 6) and ICE have become co-operative. The relative
sizes  f the distribution entities are shown in attachment 1 to this annex.
Expansion of the interconnected system in 1975 to serve Puerto Limon on the
Caribbean coast, San Isidro del General in the south and Liberia in the north-
west, iqll not increase the number of sector entities, because these localities
are already served by ICE.
3.        As shown in attachment 2, ICE together with CNFL provides most
(94%) of the electric energy requirements of the interconnected system, but
four other interconnected-system entities provide a portion of their own
requirements. In addition, several captive plants selL. excess energy pro-
duction to the interconnected system when it is mutually convenient. W~hile
ICE does not directly control the other entities' generating facilities,
which are run-of-river hydro installations, it maintains daily communication
with them and is able to meet system demands by its up-to-date knowledge of
hydrological conditions and available energy.
4.        In its review of the electric power sector, lJrwick recommended
that ICE absorb CINFL within five years, citing the desirability of increased



Annex 2
Page 2 of 4 pages
efficiency and of establishing a first step towards sector unification.
ICE has begun to overcome some of the inefficiencies associated with dupli-
cation of effort by joint performance of similar functions, such as plan-
ning distribution expansion and customer billing, with CNFL. Because of the
difference in managerial emphasis between a bulk supplier, whose principal
concern is long-term provision of energy, and a distribution company, whose
principal concerns are more immediate, it can be argued reasonably that the two
elements need not be combined under one management; several Latin American
electric power sectors are divided in this manner and function reasonably well.
Given the problems which ICE faces in providing Costa Rica's medium- and long-
term electricity needs, this does not appear to be the appropriate time for it
to take on additional problems associated with absorption of CNFL, and it has
no immediate plans to do so.
5.        Urwick also noted the difficulties in trying to consolidate the
rest of the sector. Ahile these are inherent inefficiencies (due to, inter
alia, a multiplicity of headquarters staffs, maintenance crews, and stores
inventories) associated with a fragmented system, the overall standard of
service appears adequate (except in Cartago - see paragraph 6 below). More-
over, the relative importance of the municipal entities will decline even if
they remain distinct. Their service territories are relatively small and
limited, and most new large industrial customers will receive service directly
from ICE.
6.        Because of strong local or regional feelings, consolidation of the
interconnected sector entities, while desirable on a long-term basis, can be
accomplished only gradually. Several small municipal electric systems have
been absorbed in the early 1970s.  A further step in this gradual consolida-
tion is to take place this year in the city of Tres Rios, where CNFL expects
to acquire public-service supply facilities from the local company (Miller
Enos), thereby eliminating the last element of active competition between
distributing companies. In Cartago, on the other hand, local authorities have
blamed ICE for substandard service for many years (largely without justifi-
cation), thereby preventing rational resolution of the problem in the fore-
seeable future.
7.        The government's stated position is that ICE is to be responsible
for development of all new electricity generation, but that, while it will
not object to consolidation of interconnected-system distribution companies,
neither will it promote such consolidation. Given the political difficulties
which the government would face in attempting to unify the sector, this
position is realistic.
Sector entities: isolated system and captive plants
8.        In contrast to the interconnecte  system, public-service electri-
city supply in isolated areas is generally substandard. About 33 enter-
prises - municipal and private - own generating installations, often cld
and inefficient, of between 4 and 9,600 kW and sell electricity at average
rates of between US¢1 and US019/kWh. In connection with its rural-electri-
fication program (paragraph 2.08 of the text), ICE intends to provide a



Annex 2
Page 3 of 4 pages
plan for imporovement of this situation, either through interconnection of
independent isolated systems with the main system, their absorption into a
new rural electrification scheme, or their consolidation with other nearby
isolated systems. It is expected that the government will support ICE's
plan in order to facilitate implementation of rural electrification and
improve standards in outlying areas.
9.        There are over 300 captive plants, of which 13 are of significant
size (500 kW or larger), in Costa Rica. Most are related to agro-industries,
the largest - 10,300 kW - belonging to a United Fruit subsidiary. Five
provide some electricity to the interconnected system.
Regulation
10.       The 1941 enabling legislation of SNE, Costa Rica's regulatory
authority, permits it to construct and operate public-service electricity
supply systems as well as to regulate other electric utilities. Despite
this legal anomaly, SNE has since its inception confined its activities to
regulation. It also grants concessions for hydroelectric generating plants,
but not for thermal. In addition to electric utilities, the agency also
(by virtue of subsequent amendments to its enabling legislation) has juris-
diction over the tariffs, technical standards and finances of ICE's tele-
communications operations and over all entities supplying public water/sewer-
age service.
11.       According to its law, SNE is almost completely independent from
the government: no government representative serves on its bosord of directors,
and none of its actions except electric tariff increases are subject to govern-
ment review. SNE has in past years delayed tariff increase applications for
unwarranted periods - more than a year, in some instances. As a result, re-
lations between ICE and SNE have been strained. Perhaps reflecting the atti-
tude of ICE management, Urwick recommended that SNE: be abolished and that its
regulatory powers be assumed by ICE (in technical end concessional matters)
and regional consumers' councils (in tariff, service and financial matters).
12.       Beginning in 1974, SNE's attitulde has improved signific3nt1v.  It
approved in March 1974, after about six months' review, tariff increa-es
which increased ICE's electric revenues by 41%.  In late 1974, it permitted
further tariff increases (which increased ICE's electric revenues by 18% in
September and 1% per month for the remaining months of the year) to compen-
sate for the March 1974 exchange-rate unification of the colon. It also
approved for the distribution utilities tariff increases to pass on their
increased costs for energy bought from ICE. In December 1974, SNE approved
telephone tariff increases which would raise ICE's telecommunications revenues
about 30%.  Thile the amount of the tariff increase was less than that sou ht
by ICE (see paragraphs 6.04-07 of the text for a full discussion of this
problem), the relatively short period of review - -three months - which SNE required
reflects the agency's more responsive attitude.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 4 pages
13.       SNE's improved responsiveness is attributable both to government
pressure (which, in turn, reflected Bank concern about ICE's deteriorating
financ-al situation in 1973) and to better management. Both developments -
SNE's improved dialogue with the government and its own improved
perfo-mance are favorable  and further improvements, particularly in its
technical capacity, are expected. In summary, fragmentation of regulation
and disbanding of SNE, as Urwick suggested, does not appear appropriate in
a country as small as Costa Rica, especially when SNE's regulatory attitude
is becoming more responsible.
Attachment 1
Attachment 2
March 1975



Energy Sales and Customers - 1973
Average number
Distributing Entity                                                                   Energy sales in GWh       of customers
Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad - ICE                                                206.0                24024
Compania Nacional de Fuerza y Luz - CNFL                                                     675.1               113285
Junta Administrativa de Servicios Electricos de Cartago - JASEC                               42.4                13615
Junta Administrativa de Servicios Electricos Municipalidad de Heredia - JASEMH                35.0                 9342
Junta Administrativa de Servicios Electricos Municipalidad de Alajuela - JASEMA               44.2                12926
Planta Electrica de Tres Rios, Ltda. - Miller Hnos.                                           17.6                 3998
Municipalidad de Grecia                                                                        6.o                 3174
Municipalidad de Puriscal (A)                                                                  1.2                 1490
Municipalidad de Nicoya (B)                                                                    1.0                  802
Municipalidad de Alvarado                                                                      0.4                  311
Cooperativa de Electrificacion Rural de San Jose de Naranjo                                    0.1                  142
Cooperativa de Electrificacion Rural de Guanacaste                                             6.9                 3368
Cooperativa de Electrificacion Rural de San Carlos                                             4.6                 2535
Cooperativa de Electrificacion Rural de Los Santos                                             5.9                 4126
Total interconnected system                                                 1046.4                 193138
ICE - Puerto Limon system                                                                      32.7                 6991
Guanacaste system (Liberia)                                                              12.0                 3164
Quepos system                                                                             1.1                  414
San Isidro del General system                                                             3.7                 2000
Total ICE                                                            49.5                12569
Others (C)                                                                                     13.3                  3500 (D)
Total isolated systems                                                        62.8                  16069
Total country                                                               1109.2                 209207
Notes:  (A)  Absorbed by ICE during 1973.
(B)  Absorbed by Guanacaste co-op. during 1973.
(C)  Of the 39 others at the begining of 1973, 6 were absorbed by ICE and 2 co-ops. during year                                       c 
(D)  Estimate based on 1972 data.
(DO
H+



ANqNEX 2
Attachment 2
Installed Generating Capacity and Generation
in Costa Rica - 1973
Nameplate
capacity
year-end            Generation during
Interconnected system                                    Type      - in MW              year - in GWh
ICE: La Garita                                            H         30.0                    186.9
Rio Macho                                            H         90.0                   154.4
Cachi                                                H         64.o                   484.7
Nagatac                                              H          1.5                     5.5
Total ICE hydro                            185.5                   831.5
San Antonio                                          S         10.0                    32.6
San Antonio                                          G         38.1                    24.0
Colima                                               D         19.5                    41.6
Total ICE                                  253.1                   929.7
CNFL : seven plants                                       H         27.7                   195.8
JASEC : four units                                        H          8.5                    41.6
JASEMH : two units                                        H          2.3                     19.1
Miller Hnos. : four units                                 H          1.7                     11.4
JASEMA : one unit                                         H          0.7                      5.8
Total interconnected system                           294.o                    1203.4
Isolated systems
ICE: Limon                                                D         12.0                    34.2
Liberia                                              D          2.8                    12.4
Santa Cruz                                           D          3.3                     8.1
San Isidro del General                               D          2.7                     4.4
Five others                                          D          2.5                     5.9
Total ICE                                   23.3                     65.0
Others                                                  H,D          7.5                    14.8
Total isolated systems                                 30.8                      79.8
Total public service                                  324.8                    1283.2
Captive plants : 310 units                           H,D,S                     38.6                       NA
Total country                                         363.4
H - Hydroelectric
D - Diesel
G - Gas turbine
S - Steam
NA - Data not available



Annex 3
APPRAISAL OF FIFTH POWER PROJECT - COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD (ICE)
Performance Indicators
1975       1977        1979
Market penetration indicators
Percent of population with access to
public electricity supply:
Rural (rest of contry)                              5           5963
Urban (metropolit.an San Jose area)                54           94         94
New communities served                                6           10         12
Efficiency indicators
Number of employees:
Power section                                   1,368        1,624      1,928
Telecommunications section                      2,50)0       2,680      3,250
Finance/administration section                    858          900        944
Total ICE                                     )4,226      5,204       6,122
Power employees/GEh generated                      1.57         1.44       1.38
Interconnected system losses (in percent):
Transmission                                     3.4          3.4        3.4
Distribution                                    10.8         10.8       l0o8
Financial indicators - power section
Rate of return on revalued rate base (in percent)9.0            9.4        9.1
Receivables from customers at year-end
as a percent of t otal revenues for year        12          12          12
March 1975



Annex 4
Page 1 of 2 pages
APPRAISAL OF FIFTH POWER PROJECT - COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD (ICE)
Electricity Tariffs in Costa Rica
1.        ICE's principal tariffs are summarized in attachment 1 to this
annex. They reflect the traditional cost-of-service approach to tariff-
setting and are reasonable from that viewpoint. It should be noted that
the electric rates exclude fuel charges. Costa Rican utilities account
for their fuel consumption separately, passing on all fuel costs to customers
through semi-annual fuel-adjustment revisions.
2.        The most significant problem of Costa Rica's electricity tariff
structure is not the tariffs of any one enterprise, but the fact that each
utility has its own set of tariffs - each with its own distinct definition
of service classifications and with individual rates for various classes
of service. (CNFL, for example, once had separate residential rates for
different sizes of houses, whereas ICE has always had a much simpler
tariff structure, which does not even distinguish tariffs among differ-
ent types of consumers at consumption levels up to 3000 kIh/month. The
disparity among tariff structures is illustrated in attachment 2, which
shows the price per kWh of the five largest distributors at various levels
of consumption.
3.        SNE has made some attempts to improve the siutation, e.g., it has
caused CNFL to simplify its extremely cumbersome system. However, because
of limitations in its staff's experience with tariff structures and the
recent increase in the number of tariff-increase applications, it has been
unable to devote sufficient attention to tariff-structure rationalization.
Its director and ICE's management both were in accordance with the appraisal
mission's observation that a review of Costa Rica's electricity tariffs was
desirable, and that it would be necessary for outside consultants to under-
take the review.
4.        The principal purpose of the tariff-structure review would be to
design a uniform definition of service classifications and price/consumption
relationships for the interconnected system and for isolated systems in Costa
Rica, so that the individual utilities' price/consumption curves, (as per
attachment 2) would be parallel. (The differing financial requirements of
the various utilities would prevent the adoption of uniform rates.) At the
same time, the consultants should analyze the advantages and disadvantages
to Costa Rica of:
a.   replacing the declining-rate approach to residential electricity
pricing with either a level-charge or an ascending-rate approach;
and
b.   introducing seasonal or daily variations in charges.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 2 pages
The former of the above two structural changes would respond to the
increased awareness, both worldwide and Costa Rican, of the need for energy
conservation and the consequent undesirability of promoting (through lower
prices) heavy residential consumption. The latter would respond to a
uniquely Costa Rican situation: because hydro installations in the country
lack storage, the utilities spill water during the wet season and burn fuel
during the dry, especially at peak demand hours. Consequently, measures
to improve the system's load factor (on both a seasonal and daily basis)
would not only achieve better plant utilization but also reduce fuel
consumption.
Attachment 1
Attachment 2
March 1975



Annex 4
AtEtacment 1
ICE's R1etail Electricity Rates (effective 1/21/75)
(in colones)
Tariff
1.   Residential, commercial,   first 30 kWh or less                              9.00
smaller industrial and      next 40 kWh                                     0. 26/kWh
small rural electrifica-   excess                                           0.23/kWh
tion co-operatives (up
to 3,000 kWh/month -
both interconnected
system and isolated -
low tension)
2.   Industrial consLmers,       demand charge:  first 10 kW or less           227.00
and smaller distribution   excess                                          22.7 /kW
companies excluding         energy charge:  first 3,000 kWh or less    444.oo
rural electrification       excess                                          0.148/kWh
co-operatives (3,001 -
20,000 kWA/month - low
tension)
3.   Industrial consumers        demand charge:  first 27 kW or less           612.90
and distribution com-       next 40 kW                                     21.7 /kW
panies excluding rural      excess                                         34.5 /kW
electrification co-         energy charge:  first 20,000 kWh or less 2,960.00
operatives (above           excess                                          0.l085/kTh
20,000 kTWh/month and
only at high tension,
i. e., above normal
distribution voltage
3-phase)
4.   Block sales to rural         demand charge:  first 11 kW or less          126.50
electrification co-         excess                                         115.0/kW
operatives (3,001 -         energy charge:  first 3,000 kWn or less    300.00
20,000 kWh/month -          excess                                          0.10/kWh
voltages above normal
distribution voltags
3-phase)
5.   Block sales to rural         demand charge:  first 27 kW or less          311.00
electrificaticn co-         next 40 kW                                     11650/kW
operatives (above           excess                                         21 .00/kW
20,000 kWh/month -          energy charge:  first 20,000 kWh or less 2,000.00
voltage higher than         excess                                          0.065/kih
distribution voltage
3-phase)
6.   Public illumination         for each 50 W or fraction of                    4.oo
Note 1:  Demand charges are based on a 15 minute interval.
Note 2:  The tariffs consider special rates for seasonal loads.
Note 3:  The tariffs also provide for penalties for a power factor lower than 0.95
(tariffs 2, 3, 4 and 5) which have not been applied due to lack of metering
equipment.



ELECTRICITY PRICES OF LARGEST DISTRIBUTING ENTITIES
BASED ON TARIFFS IN EFFECT IN AUGUST 1974 fin colonos)
COLONES/kwh
- F        e  1,-       +eZWH                                                                                                                                                                        v
~~~~~~~22~ ~~~~~~~~I
IASEI
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AE
.44
'IASASE
~~~~~~~~~~~............ r9..    --  
16                                                                  CNF,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x,,
JASFAR  r   *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'S.
.10  -    flU  U                           II           ___                     --   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                 1
.10             -----   ____   -   -                          -1                  -                            -
.10 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
TAHIFF 1                        TAIF 2TAIF  2 
MONTHLY CONSUMPTION IN klA-
FlAld 0#Bk--9SSP



Annex 5
Page 1 of 2 pages
APPRAISAL OF FIFTH POWER PROJECT - COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD (ICE)
Boruca Hydroelectric Development
Background
1.        By a contract ratified by the Costa Rican Congress in 1970:  the
government has given Alcoa a concession for the extraction of 120 million
tons of bauxite from an area near San Isidro del General over a period of
40 years; Alcoa has undertaken to build a refinery at Palmares for the
oroduction of alumina (A1203) of a minimum capacity of 400,000 tons p.a.,
and the government has undertaken to build and maintain a port at Punta
Uvita and a 30 km road from the Palmares alumina refinery to Punta Uvita.
By letter of intent signed in April 1972 and subsequent agreements, the
government, Alcoa and ICE agreed to prepare: a feasibility study of a
hydroelectric development at Boruca, to be owned and operated by ICE; and
(assuming the feasibility of the hydro development) a feasibility study
for construction of an aluminum snelter at Punta Uvita with estimated
annual capacity of 300,000 tons.
2.        The latest developments are the following:
a.   In March 1974, the final version of the feasibility study for
the Boruca hydroelectric development was prepared by Alcoa, ICE
and International Epgineering Co. Inc. (USA).
b.   In May 1974, an agreement was signed by the government, ICE and
Alcoa which established the completion and acceptance by Costa
Rica of the feasibility study.
c.   In October 1974, Alcoa submitted to the National Aluminum Com-
mission (Comision Nacional de Aluminio - CNA) a project outline
document with some element of financial analysis. Contrary to
CNA expectations, Alcoa did not present a full feasibility
study of the aluminum project, nor did it make a firm offer.
In this document, Alcoa assumes that the Costa Rican government
will obtain all financing for the Boruca hydro project including
any cost overruns and that Alcoa will service the debt and
operating expenses. This document also assumes that the only
advantages for Costa Rica would be the use of 30 MW of firm power
paying only for the corresponding operating costs, and taxes from
the smelter operation.
d.   Because it considered Alcoa's plan unsatisfactory, CNA hired a
consultant (Norconsult of Norway) in November 1974, to advise it
in further dealings with Alcoa. Together with Norconsult, CNA
analyzed Alcoa's project outline, prepared a list of issues that



Annex 5
Page 2 of 2 pages
Alcoaneeds to clarify and presented them to Alcoa.
e.   Norconsult submitted the first draft of its analysis in March
1975 which confirmed the feasibility of the project. This
analysis contains sufficient information for Costa Rica to
start negotiations with Alcoa. Costa Rica expects Alcoa to
submit concrete proposals for starting negctiations by the
end of May 1975 and has set the end of 1975 as a time limit
to reach agreement with Alooa.
The power project
3.        The h x 190 MW Boruca hydro development would provide annual firm
energy production of 5,000 GWh. It would consist of a 260 m rock-fill dam
on the Rio Grande de Terraba 15 Ian upstream from Palmar Norte, impounding a
reservoir which would cover a surface bf 197 km2 with a volume of 1h,950
million m3, an underground powerhouse, a spillway with a maximum discharge
capacity of 1h,200 mi/sec and two double-circuit 220 kV transmission lines,
53 km long to the aluminum smelter at Punta Uvita. The estimated time for
construction is 7 years.  This rock-fill dam would be among the highest of
its type existing in the world but the feasibility study does not foresee
any insurmountable difficulties in its construction. Estimated base cost
(1973 prices) is US$270 million, of which 31% would 'be local costs and
69% foreign.  This estimate includes 10% for physical contingencies.  Final
cost is estimated to be US$700 million based on the following assumptions:
a.   10% price escalation for both foreign and local costs;
b.   interest during construction based on the assumption of a 50%
Bank-type loan at 71% for 30 years and 50% conventional financ-
ing at 12% for 15 years to cover the total cost of the hydro
project.
Conclusion
4.        As can be seen from the above it is not possible to judge whether
the combined project (hydro plus smelter) is a viable one for Costa Rica.
This would finally depend on the benefits for Costa Rica that Alcoa would
agree upon and it is premature to venture any opinion of the eventual results
of these negotiations.
5.        If the results of the negotiations with Alcoa (or other entities,
paragraph 2.c.) were to be negative, the Boruca hydro project would be
justified for ICE's interconnected system in approximately 20-25 years
and would be its second hydro project with interannual regulation.
May 1975



Annex 6
Page 1 of 4 pages
APPRAISAL CF FIFTH POWfER PROJECT - COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD (ICE)
Arenal Hydroelectric Development
1.        The principal objective of the Arenal hydroelectric project is
to build in its first stage a power plant of 135 MW (3 x 45 MW) to meet
Costa Rica's future energy demands. At present, the waters of Lake Arenal
(515 m above sea level) flow into the Atlantic Ocean. The project provides
for diverting these waters into ,he Pacific Ocean, passing through a seasonal-
ly very dry region, making possible the irrigation of at least 250,000 acres
as an additional benefit.
2.        The project consists of building a 68 m high dam, rock filled with
an impervious core of volcanic material, blocking the only outflow of Lake
Arenal, which will then have live storage of L.200 million i3. The location
of the dam site is in the northwest of Costa Rica, 4 km to the west of the
Arenal Volcano (still slightly active after an eruption in the year 1968)
20 km from the city of Tilaran and 60 km from Caras (see map).  The proposed
dam will bring the water level of the lake up to 538 m a.s.l.
3.        The lake, when full, will have a surface area of approximately 70 km2,
having a length of 26 km and width of 4 km at its widest point . Its waters
will flow through an intake structure, tunnel and penstock located at the
opposite side of the lake from the dam, to 3 Francis type turbines coupled
to 45 MW generators installed in an above-ground power house to be finally
discharged into the Santa Rcsa River -which flows into the Pacific Ocean.
Average annual generation is expected to be about,640GTAh.
4.        The second step of this hydro development will be built about 8 km
from the Arenal power house, namely the Santa Rosa power plant. Using the
waters discharged from Arenal it will have a capacity of 156 MW (3 x 52 MW)
and an annual average generation of 790 GTWh. The final development is plan-
ned to double that described above, i.e., 270 MW at Arenal and 312 MW at
Santa Rosa.
5.        The Arenal hydro development will be the first one to be built in
Costa Rica that has interannual regulation. The only other attractive
possible interannual regulation developments known in Costa Rica are Talamanca
(live storage 4,500 m3) and Boriuca (live storage 4,900 m3, see Annex 5) both
near the Panamanian frontier.
6.        The dam will use approximately 4 million m3 of material all to be
found within aradius of 5 km from the site, and at its crest will be approxi-
mately 1,000 m long. It has been designed to withstand an earthquake of 6.5
on the Richter scale at the dam site. The diversion of the river will be
effected by a 6.3 m diameter 600 m long concrete-lined tunnel with a capacity
of 360 m3/s which is nearing completion at this moment, the construction being
done by ICE's own work forces. This tunnel will have gates that will permit
it to be used as a discharge tunnel of the reservoir. The main spillway will



Annex 6
Page 2 of 4 pages
be located on the right sida of the river with a discharge capacity of
300 m3s. It is a free discharge type with an open conduit and ski-jump.
7.        The water -will flow through an intake struzture designed for
87.5 m3/s, a concrete-lined tunnel 5.25 m in diameter and 6.5 km long to
a steel surge tank, through valves to enter an above ground steel pen-
stock of 4.5 m diameter wilth 750 m length. The water will de distributed
to the three turbines with a head of approximately 215 m. All these instal-
lations are dimensioned for the capacity of the first stage of 135 MW and
will have to be duplicated for the second stage of 135 MW.  The power house
is so designed to make easily the necessary extension for the second stage.
8.        The ecological impact was studied by ICE with the help of individual
US consultants who found that the design of the dam, roads and excavations
would minimize the damage to the environment, and that the lake when full
would add beauty to the landscape and give opportunity for tourism. The
building of the dam will affect 400 families situated within the area of the
reservoir, which will make their relocation necessary.  The town of Arenal
is the main center of the region with about 160 families, followed by Tronadora,
wiith 60 families. The rest of the families are scattered among several vil-
lages. A survey taken showed that most of the inhabitants do not wish to
settle outside the region, and ICE accordingly has prepared a relocation pro-
gram which calls for the construction of two new towns, which will have adequate
social services such as water supply, electricity and schools. The total cost
of the relocation program is estimated to be the equivalent of US$1,255,000
which is included in the construction cost of the project.
9.        The activity of the Arenal volcano was studied by Mr. W. Nelson of
the Smithsonian Institution (USA), who recommended geophysical vigilance of
the volcano to predict any change in the activity and the construction of a
security cabin to protect the lives of the permanent personnel at the dam
in case of a repeated eruption. He considered it improbable for an eruption
to have an adverse effect on the dam due to the natural barriers between the
volcano and dam site. Nevertheless, he recommended the construction of a
freeboard several meters high to protect the dam from any wave action that
might be caused by volcanic or seismic activities, together with a topo-
graphical survey of present lava flows to follow carefully any variations
that may occur.
10       The feasibility study and designs were carried out by ICE and the
following consultants:
W. A. Wahler & Associates (USA)
Geoconseil (France)
Individual consultants from the University
of Texas (USA)
Approximately half of the civil works will be contracted by international
bids, namely the dam, the roacs, the water intake and the penstock. The
other works will be done by force-account.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 4 pages
11.       According to the project cost estimate developed at the time of
IDB appraisal during February and March 1974., the cost of the project will
be US$91 million, as shown below:
Thousands of US$
Local          Foreign           Total
Engineering and Adnii.-Itratio.-      9,o50              970          10,020
Land and relocation                   4,100              -              4,100
Ci Til works                         16, 005          19,125           35,130
Electro-mechanical equipment            525           10,685          11,210
Total base cost                    29,680           30,780          60,460
Contingencies - physical              2,720            3,235           5,955
- price                 7,o85           8,790           15,875
Interest du ing construction                           7,190           7,190
Commitment fees                                        1,025           1,025
IDB inspe  ion                                           5C5             505
39,485          51,525           91,010
The US$50.5 million IDB loan will finance the foreign cost component exclud-
ing its commitment fee with 30 years term, 6 years grace period, interest
8%, ] a commitment fee.  IDF does not consider interest during construction
for local costs. Physical cniltingencies were taken to be 10%. Price esca-
lation for foreign costs was -stimated at 8% yearly for the proposed five-
year disbursement period. Lu. al costs (including the 10% contingency allow-
ance) were escalated 18% for the first year of construction with escalation
decreased proportionally thereafter to obtain an average escalation rate of
8% a year.
12.       The construction program calls for the first unit to be commissioned
before the end of 1977 and the other two units in 1978. T-is program appeared
optimistic to the appraisal mission and duritig conversations with ICE's of-
ficials it was agreed by them that a more realistic schedule would be for the
first unit to be on line at the end of 1978. If the delay were greater ICE
could suffer from energy shortage in the dry season of 1979 (January to May).
The reasons for estimating this time schedule are the following:
a.   The program calls for the dam to be built in three dry seasons
(February-April) beginning in February 1975. At present (February
1975) only two contractors have offered bids, the lower one of which
was about US$6 million higher than the estimated cost and ICE is
calling for new bids and plans to begin dam construction by force
account with a limited quantity of construction equipmenit. Under
the circumstances, and after visiting the site and seeing the mate-
rial difficulties involved, such as bad roads,. difficult extraction
of material for dam building, etc., the mission feels that the three
dry seasons will not allow sufficient time for completion.



Annex 6
Page l4of '4 pages
b.   The program calls for the contract for the electromechanical
equipment to be signed by January 1975, but as yet the bid
documents have not been issued. This will cause at least a
6-9 month delay with respect to the prograrm.
13.       The cost estimate presented in paragraph 11 appears low because:
a.   delays in the construction schedule will with price escalation
increase the project cost;
b.   as shown by the bids for the dam construction         10e  O  -hys-iscal
contingency allowed for cizil works ap-pears to be too low;
and
c.   base cost estimates for generating equipmenat are considered
to be on the low side (US$39/kW - generator + turbine).
14.       A revised cost estimate of the projiect was calculated based on
the following assum.ptions:
a.   extension of the construction program by one year;
b.   10% physical contingency for engineering and administrative costs,
land and relocation and all electromechanical equipment (genera-
ting equipment calculated at US$56/kW;
c.   30% physical contingency for the tunnel:
d.   20% physical contingency for all other civil works; and
e.   local and foreign cost escalation according to Bank's practice
(see paragraph 3.04 of the text).
The results of these calculations are shown in the following table:
Million of US$ equivalent
Local           Foreign           Total
Original estimate                   39.5             51.5             91.0
Bank estimate                       52.2             61.3            114.0
Increase in US$                     12.7             10.3             23.0
Increase in %                       32.0             20.0             25.3
15.       These estimated cost overruns are basically due to considering:
a.   higher physical contingencies
b.   higher local and foreign cost escalation
than those used in the original cost estimate.  Due to t,he reasons given in para-
graphs 12 and 13, the mission feels tnat it is not possible t,o change the construc-
tilon program of Arenal in order to obtain an earlier completion date or lower
costs than those estimated.
March 1975



Annex 7
Page 1 of '7 pages
APPRAISAL OF FIFTH POWER PROJECT - COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD (ICE)
Description of the Project
I.  Oeneration Facilities
Extension of Rio Macho hydro power plant
1.        The existing Rio Macho hydro power plant (second stage completed
in March 1974) has an installed capacity of 90 MW (2 x 15 MW plus 2 x 30 MW
Pelton turbine-generator sets working under a head of 460 m), and uses water
drawn from the Macho and Reventazon rivers. The power plant has a small
storage reservoir (capacity 470,000 m3) which permits regulation over several
housrs only and limits use of the plant during the dry season to peaking pur-
poses. The proposed extension consists of the installation of an additional
unit of 30 MW, which will be the last stage of this development. The civil
works entailed are minor and consist of the following: connection to the
tcailrace channel and the extension of the power house to provide the neces-
sary space.  The unit is planned to be in service by mid-1977.
Extension of the Cachi hydro power plant
2.        The existing power plant was completed in two stages.  The first
stage (1967) consisted principally of the building of a thin arch dam on
the Reventazon river (height 54 m), a 5.9 km tunnel from the reservoir to
the power station, and a power house containing two Francis turbines coupled
to generators having a nominal capacity of 32 MW each. The turbines operate
on a head varying between 246 and 221 meters. The second stage (completed
in 1972) raised the level of the reservoir by 20 m by installing gates on
the spillway which increased the storage capacity to 51 million m3.
3.        The proposed extension consists of the installation of an additional
unit of 32 MW, bringing the installed capacity up to 96 MW.  The final develop-
ment of the Cachi hydro power plant is planned to provide for two more units
of 32 MW, for which additional civil works (tunnels, penstock, etc.) will have
to be constructed. For the proposed project the civil works necessary are
minor and consist of the following: extension of the power house by 12 meters,
slight modification of the tailrace channel and the addition of a bifurca-
tion at the bottom of the existing penstock to connect it to the new turbine.
The unit is planned to be in service by mid-1977.
Moin diesel plant
4.        This medium speed diesel power plant of 30 MW will consist of four
to six machines of 7.5 to 5 MW running at a velocity of about 450 r.p.m. The
fuel used will be basically fuel oil (Bunker C) with a small proportion of



Annex 7
Page 2 of 7 pages
diesel oil.  It was found that the most economical location for this power
plant was at MKoIn on the Atlantic coast near the town of Limon, adjacent to
the oil refinery of Costa Rica. The plant will be connected to the national
interconnected system by the double circuit 138 kV Moin-Cachi transmission
line which is under construction. ICE plans to put the plant into service
during the first quarter of 1977.
Fuel storage tanks
5.        The criterion adopted to determine the required fuel storage capaci-
ty for the thermal urits is that which permits each of the plants to operate
at full load with a plant factor of 85% for E. period of 45 days. Excepted frc
this general criterion is the proposed new diesel power plant at Moin where
the tank capacity would be sufficient for only 27 days, based on its proximity
to the existing oil refinery. On this basis the tanks proposed are:
a.   a 2 million gallon tank for diesel oil for the San Antonio gas
turbine plant. This tank in combiration with the existing ones
would permit both the San Antonio steam and gas turbine plants
to comply with the criterion mentioned above; and
b.   a 1 million gallon tank for fuel oil at Mloin for the new diesel
power station.
Both tanks are scheduled to be completed by y-ear-end 1976. The proposals
are the result of studies made jointly by ICE and the local refinery and
are reasonable, based on the following:
i.   the local refinery's capacity covers only about 65% of Costa
Rica's needs, and the country must import refined petroleum
products, which exposes it to possible unavailability of
tankers;
ii.   fuel oil is transported from the Atlantic coast by railway which
has a limited capacity due to insufficient rolling stock. Other
fuels are transported from the refinery by a pipeline to the
San Jose area;
iii.   all the fuels imported by Costa Rica through the Pacific coast
must also be transported by railway to the San Jose area with
the same difficulties as described in (ii); and
iv.   the storage volume that the refinery has available is only
approximately 10 million gallons of diesel oil and less than 2
million gallons of fuel oil.
II.  Transmission and Distribution Works (to be completed by year-end 1978)
Works related to the Arenal hydro power plant



Annex 7
Page 3 of 7 pages
Arenal step-up substation
6.        This substation will step-up the voltage of the power generated by
the Arenal hydro power plant to 220 kV and will contain three 60 MVA trans-
formers, a  220 kV line bay for the transmission line to Canas and necessary
associated equipment.
Extension of Canas substation
7.        The works included are those related to the installation of two
220 kV line bays for the incoming (from Arena±) and outgoing (to Barrancas)
220 kV circuits and the installation of a 220/138 kV, 30 MVA autotransformer
to supply the Guanacaste region.
Canas-La Irma transmission line
8.        At present the region called Las Juntas de Abangares is supplied
from a connection to the Canas-Barrancas transmission line (at the moment
energized at 138 kV) through a substation 138/34.5 kV. Due to the fact
that in the future this transmission line will operate at 220 kV (see para-
graph 11) the most economical solution to supply this region is building a
23 km long line (34.5 kV) from Canas to La Irma.
Extension of Barrancas substation
9.        This extension provide: for the installation of a 220/138 kV, 60
MVA autotransformer to serve local load and the necessary 220 kV line bays
for the incoming (from Ctnas) and outgoing (to La Caja) 220 kV transmission
lines plus the associated equipment.
Arenal-Canas transmission line
10.       This 220 kV, 16 km transmission line is necessary to link the
Arenal hydro power station to Canas, where an existing line to Barrancas
(financed by IDB) presently operating at 138 kV, but insulated for 220 kV
will interconnect the Arenal power plant to the interconnected system. This
86 km single circuit, 220 kV line will be a weak link in ICE's transmission
system until the construction (1980-1981) of additional lines to transport
the energy from the Santa Rosa project.
Barrancas-La Caja transmission line
11.       This double circuit 220 kV line, 62 km long, is necessary to
transport with a high degree of security the energy of the Barrancas and
Arenal power stations to the load center.
Extension of La Caja substation
12.       This extension of one of the main substations supplying the metro-
politan area of San Jose is necessary due to the incoming double circuit
220 kV line from Barrancas and the installation of two 220/138 kV, 60 MVA
autotransformers to permit the energy from Arenal to enter the ring to be



Annex 7
Page 4 of 7 pages
built around San Jose.  A third transformer (138/3:4.5 kV) is necessary
to meet the increasing load 4n the area.
13.       The capacities of the autotransformers mentioned in paragraph 7,
9 and 12 were determined by load flow studies carried out by ICE using its
own computer.
III.  Transmission Related to Generating Facilities in Proposed Project
Moin, Cachi, Rio Macho (to be completed by first quarter 1977)
Moin step-up substation
14.       The works scheduled in this substation consist of the installation
of the step-up transformer for the Moin diesel power plant and the two line
bays for the two outgoing 138 kV circuits to Cachi.. (The transmission line
itself is already under construction with financing from CABEI).
Extension of Cachi step-up substation
1,       This substation has to be extended to accommodate the step-up
transformer for the third 32 MW unit to be installed and uhe tiro line bays
necessary for the two circuit 138 kV transmission line to Este substation.
Extension of Rio Macho step-up substation
16.       This extension is necessary due to the .installation of the step-up
transformer for the fifth unit of 30 MW for the Rio Macho oewer olant.
Cachi-Este and Rio Macho-Este transmission lines
17.       The existing double-circuit 138 kV Rio Macho-Colima transmission
line will be replaced by:  two circuits to Este substation (one from Rio
Macho and the other from Cachi); one circuit from Cachi to Colima; and one
circuit from Este substation to Colima (see attachment 1), all at 138 kV.
This solution is designed to:
a.   permit the flow of the total energy from the extended Rio Macho
and Cachi hydro plants and the new Moin power plant into the
load center; and
b.   form part of the ring around San Jose.
IV. Transmission and Distribution Related to Ring Around San Jose
18.       These works, to be completed by year-end 1978, are shown in
Attachment 1. They consist of the following: 1/
1/ The completion of this ring (the northern portion already exists in part)
follows the recommendation of Electroconsult (Italy), a Bank-financed
consultant (loan 800-CR).



Annex 7
Page 5 of7 pages
-    extension of La Caja substation;
-    construction of Este substation;
-    construction of Desamparados substation;
-    construction of Alajuelita substation;
-    extension of Colima substation;
-    transmission lines from Este and Rio Macho substations to
La Caja substation passing through Desamparados and Alajuelita
substations;
-    a short transmission line to connect with the Sabanilla (Moravia)
substation under construction with financing from loan 800-CR;
-    construction of a second 138 kV circuit La Caja-Colima;
-    distribution equipment for use by CNFL consisting of:
a.   equipment for Alajuelita substation (trarsformer 20/30 MVA,
138/13.8 kV and associated equipment). The equivalent equipment
for CNFL's contribution for extensior- of the existing Colima
substation and the new Desamparados and Sabanilla (Moravia) sub-
stations, has already been procured by CNFL; and
b.   distribution transformers and meters necessary to meet the in-
creasing load of the San Jose area, and for rationalizing the
distribution voltage to 13.8 kV.
The southern part of the ring (the northern part already exists - see attach-
inent 1) has to be built as soon as possible to avoid land purchase and right-
of-way problems due to the rapid expansion of urbanization in San Jose.
Extension of present transmission system to meet increasing load
19.       These works, which are to be completed by year-end 1978, consist of
the following:
a.   extension of the following substations either by adding new
transformers or changing the existing ones: Garita, Naranjo, Quezada,
Carmen, Cocal, Guayabal, Turrialba, Canas;
b.   construction of two new 138/34.5 kV substations, to meet increasing
load in two areas, namely: Concavas (for the Cartago area, connected
to Rio Macho-La Caja transmission line) and Siquirres connected to
Cachi-Moin transmission line;
c.   a short single circuit 138 kV transmission line (17 km) from Garita to
Naranjo to reinforce the electric supply of the towns Grecia, Naranjo
Palmares, Quezada, San Ramon, and Arenas, presently being supplied by a
very old and failure-prone system of 34.5 kV lines; and



Annex 7
Page 6 of 7 pages
d.   an allowaincc, for normal expansion of the transmission system to
supply new industries whose definite location has not
y-et been defined.
V.  Load Dispatching Equipment
20.       ICE, at present, has practically no load dispatching equipment
for telemetering and telecontrol, and a poor internal communication system.
ICE proposes to install by year-end 1977 a modern system which will permit
it to control the operation of the whole system more efficiently (especial-
ly necessary with Arenal due to its interannual regulating capacity) and to
obtain faster response to partial or complete system outages, (system out-
ages at present last as long as 50 minutes; complet,e system outages occur
on an average between 2 and 3 times a year).
VI. Cost of Pro.ject and Allocation of Loan Proceeds
21.       The estimated project cost and financing requirements are shown
below.  Physical contingencies were estimated at 10, of the hase cost estl-
mate, and price contingencies, in accordance w%th the assumpti -s indicated
in paragraph 3.05 of th- text.
Colones (millions)_       US$ (millions)
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
Rio Macho extension              6.75    33.06   39.51    o.64       2.97     3.61
Cachi extension                 17.10    48.o8   65.:L8    1.65      h.21     5.86
Moin Diesel plant including
substation and fuel tank       12.90    81.00   93.90    1.27       7.98     9.25
San Antonio fuel tank            0.41      1.32    1.73    0.04      0.13     0.17
Transmission related to Arenal 27.71    90.35  118.06    2.51        8.07    10.58
Transmission related to Rio
Macho and Cachi                 6. i     18.23   2h.38    o.b9      1.76     2.35
San Jose ring and distribution
equipment                      17.06    46.25   63.31    1.57       4.49     6.06
Extension of existing trans-
mission equipment              20.68    42.65   63.33    1.83       3.90     5.73
Load dispatching equipment       2.58    13.68   16.26    0.22       1.20     1.h2
Consultant studies                         2.06    2.06              0.20     0.20
Sub-total                 l11.37   376.68  488.02   10.32    3.91   45.23
Contingencies - physical        11.13    37.67   48.80    1.03       3.49     4.52
- price          51.96    64.75  116.71    4.66       5.91    10.57
Total project costs       174.X3   779.10  k53. 57   16.0]    T431    60.32
Financial charges               28.07    89.76  117.83    2.39       7.69    10.08
Total financing required       202.50   568.86  771.36   18.40    52.00    70.40



Annex 7
Page 7 of 7 pages
22.       For purposes of presenting the allocation of proceeds of the
proposed loan, price contingencies have been limited to 10% of the base-
cost estimate of the goods to be financed, and physical contingencies
have been included as above. The allocation of proceeds would be:
millions of US$
Supply and installation of project works and
acquisition of equipment and materials                 28.6
Consultantst services                                     0.2
Interest and other financial charges                      6.5
Unallocated                                               5.7
Total                                              l .0
Attachment .
May 1975



COSTA RICA
APPRAISAL OF FIFTH POWER PROJECT
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD (ICE)
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION RING
AROUND METROPOLITAN AREA OF SAN JOSE
8.7 Km.                                   5.5 Km.                                                                                      >
8.7 Km.                                  18.5 Km.
a----------
1.1                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sabanilla  4~
a  t                                                   9                     : I   138 KV K  _Moravia) 138 KV.
La Caja 220IKV  20MVA.                                                     CoC olima 2 13.8 KV.                                       3.8 K.                      San Bias             C2 Cchi 138 KV. _
La______   Caja 34.5KV.L___La Ca-a 138 KV.                                                                                                   KV___
I~~    ~           ~~~ '                                         I______                                                                            ?ti!; 
L ------0
T'Gaia 34.5 KV.  L ------------ 1                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24 Km.  14.6 Km.
L-      -       -       -       -       -                                                                                              8.5  Km~
San Antonio                                                                                                                                      I                            Rio Macho 138 KV   I
* ,               . 13.8 KV.            4i13.8 KV.              4-13.8 KV.
t f t 5* X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----:Escaz6  138  KV.                                -r-J Alajuelita 138  KV.  T   lDesamparados 138  KV,   .1@
I \\  ;ca I   I    I                      1 I
%,  L_                i           14 Km.      j  L                    ,  ,.  _2 Km.        ,            o                   n
scaz_ 138m.     9 Ky.  jTJTAIeIita 138 K1. Kiam,a 6 138 Ky.                           I13.8 KV.
-    EXISTING
---- PROPOSED PROJECT
morld B.nk-9513
.......... FUTURE
a



ANNEX 8
APPRAISAL OF FIFTH POWER PROJECT - COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD (ICE)
ESTTIA-TED SCHEDULE CF LOAN DISBURSEMEI;TS
Assumptions
Loan apprcral:              June 30, 1975
Effective date:            October 31, 1975
Closing date:               June 1979
I9RD fiscal year                          Cumulative disbursements
and seme. uer                               at end of semester
(in thousands of US")
1975-197h:
December 31, 1?75                                  3,371
June 30, 1975                                     12,371
197'S,-1977:
December 31, 1907                                 213,82
June 30, 1977                                     27,354
1977-1978:
December 3 , 1977                                 37,3,) 
tune 30, 1978                                     38,83L
1'378-1 979:
December 31, 1978                                 41 ,000
June 30, 1979                                     41 ,000
March 1975



Annex 9
APPRAISAL CP FIFTH POWER PROJECT - COSTA RICA
INSTITLUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD (ICE)
Demand, Generation and Sales Forecast
1.        At the end of 1972, ICE revised its previous study of load fore-
cast and obtained results for 1973 through 1986 which are realistic and
practically coincident with the results of a separate study made by a Bank-
financed consultant - Sofrelec (France) (loan 800-CR).
2.        The load forecast was based on a detailed analysis of sales in
the past ten years, trends for each class of consumer in the different areas
of the -country, population growth rates, and projected industrial growth as
a result of direct consultation with each industry and the general tendency
of economic activity of the cowitry. ICE used a conservative estimate of
economic activity of the country for Calculating its salas forecast (and
therefore its revenue) denominated as level 2, whic'h assumes an average
annual growth rate of 8.6%. To determine its installation program called
level 1, ICE assumes a slightly higher average annual growth rate of 9.1%
to take into account the -nservative basis, mainly in industrial growth,
used for the sales forecasiL.  The actual average rate of growth of sales
over the past five years was 10.3% p.a., which refliects the conservative
basis of the load forecast used by ICE even for leviel 1. The load factor
of the system is assumed to increase from 56% in 1973 to 59% in 1986. On
these basis the average arnual growth rate of maximum demand is 8.5%.
3.        Detailed information for the interconnected system on a yearly
basis, covering actual (1968 through 1974) and forecast (1975 through 1981)
of sales, generation, maximum demand and required calpacity is  shown in
attachment 1 to this annex. Attachment 2 shows the forecast made by ICE of
generation and maximum demand (based on level 1) on a monthly basis from
1973 through 1986.
4.        The reasonableness of ICE's study is indicated by the monthly
values of generation and maximum demand obtained for the years 1973 and
1974 (see attachment 3), which are cnly slightly lower than the figures
corresponding to the forecast based on level 1 in spite of tariff increases
of more than 60% during 1974.
Attachment 1
Attachment 2
Attachment 3
March 1975



INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM: ENERGY SALES, LOSSES, GENERATION,
MAXIMUM DEMAND ANt) LOAD FACTOR 1968-1981
Actual                                                                        Projected
Description                       1968       1969       1970        1971       1972   i  1973        1974        1975       1976       1977        1978       1979        1980       1981
Sales of Energy GWh             639.0        688.2      774.2      878.o       974.o    1039.0      1143.3      1231.2     1368.6    14183.8      1608.5     1741.3      1875.1     2026.5
Transmission Losses GWh           25,2        27.2       31.0        35.1       38.7       41.1       45.4        49.0       54.4        59.0       63.9       69.2        74.6       80.6
Distribution Losses GW0M          73.8        82.2      102.8       113.9      121.3      123.9       143.3      155.8      173.0       187r2      209.6      219.5       238.3      257.9
Generation GWh                  738.0        797.6      908.0     1027.0      1134.0    1204.0 2/ 1327.0           -          -                      -          -           -          -
Level 2                         -            -                     -           -          -          -        1436.0     1596,0     1730.0      1875.0     2030.0      2188.o     2365.0
Level 1  g                      -            -          -          -           -          -          -        1504.0     1646.0     1813.0      1963.0    212800       2307.0     2500.0
Load Factor (Level 1)               .544        .541        .532       .553        .558       .551       .555        .570       .573       .577        .580       .582        .584       .586
Maximum Demand MW (Level 1)      155.0      168.4       195.0       211.9      231.9      249.3       271.0      301.0      328.0       358.0      386.o      417.0       451.0      487.0
Reserve (Largest Unit)            32.0       32.0        32.0        32.0       32.0       32.0        32.0       32.0       32.0        32.0       32.0       45.0        45.0       45.o
Reqcuired capacity               187.0      200.4       227.0       243.9      263.9      281.3       306.0      333.0      360.0       390.0      418.0      462.0       496.o      532.0
Available capacity              196.0       196.0       196.0       196.o      256.0      294.0       332.0      332.0      352.0  3/ 444.o   /  444.o         579.0  5/  579.0      579.0
Capacity surplus or (deficit)     9.0        (4.4)      (31.0)      (47.9)      (7.9)      12.7       26.0        (1,o)      (8.0)       s4.o       26.0      117.0        83.0       47.0
See Annex 13 for explanation of Levels 1 zand 2
Load shedding of 36 GWh
2/ Interconnection of 20 MW of minor thermaol ple it
Commissioning of Rio Macho extension (30 MW)
Cachi extension (32 MW)
Moin Diesel Plant (30 YN)
5/ Commissioning af Arenal Hfydro Power Plant (135 MW)
I-



PROJECTION OF MAXIMUM DEMAND AND GERATED ENERGY (LEVEL 1) i/
FOR THI- INTERCONNEC(MED SYSTEM
Monthly Maximum Demands MW
Maximum
YEAR                Demarnd (MW)        Jan.      Feb.       March      April       May       June      July      Aug.       ,e.        Oct.       Nov.      Dec.
1973  g/              254                223      ?27          231         229      227        225       228        230        2Po        243        251        ?54
1974  j               27lk               2180      P45         249         247      244        2843      246        2848        "8')      262        271       27(4
1975                  301                264       269         274         271      268        2676      2'71       272          (3       288        298        301
1976                  328                288       294         298         296      293        291       "95        29'7        é9        314        325        328
1977                  358                314       320         326         323      319        217       322        324         305       342        354        358
1978                  386                339       345         351         348      344        342       347        349         3)0       369        382        386
1979                  417                336       3'73        379         3'76     372        369       3'75       377         T(8       399        413        417
1980                  451                396       40o)        41o         4o6      402        400       405        408         40o       431        446        451
1981                  487                427       436         443         439      434        431       438        441         )8'       466        482        487
1982                  52'7               462       472         480         475      470        467       474        477         4783      504        522        527
1983                  570                500       510         519         514      508        505       512        516         5L'(      545        564        570
1984                  617                541       552         561         556      550        547       555        558         560       590        610        617
1985                  668                586       598         608         602      596        592       60         604         6006      639        661        668
1986                  724                635       648         659         652      646        641       651        655         657(      692        717        724
Monthly Generated Energy GWh
YEAR                 Total              Jan.      Feb.       March       April      May       June      July       Aug.       Sept.      Oct.       Nov.       Dec.
1973                 1248                 99       102          97         101      102        105        102       104         105       107        112        111
1974                 1361                108       112         106         110      112        114       112        113         114       117        122        121
1975                 1504                119       123         117         122      123        126        123       125         126       129        135        134
1976                 1646                130       135         128         133      135        138        135       137         138       142        148        146
1977                 1811                143        149        141         147      149        152        149       150                    1 ""  156  163       161
1978                 1863                155       161         153         159      161        165         61l      163         16')       169       177        175
1979                 2128                168       174         166         172      174        179        174       177         17)        183       192        189
1980                 2307                182       189         180         187      189        194        189       191         194        198       208        205
1981                 2500                198       205         195         203      205        210        205       208         21(        215       225        223
1982                 2710                214       222         211         220      222        228        222       225         2`8        23 3      244        241
1983                 2938                232       241         229         238      2l1        2487       241       244         28,7       253       264        261
1984                 3185                252       2(1         248         258      261        268        26]       2684        268        274       28'7       283
1985                 3453                273       '83         269         280      283        290        283       287         290        297       311        307
1986                 3742                297        3(7        292         303      307        314        307r      311         314        322       337        333
j/    See Annex 13 for explanation of' Level 1
For comparison between forecast and actual resmlts for years 1973, 1974 see Attachment, 3



Annex 9
Attachment 3
Compa-rison of Demand and Energy Forecast (Level 1)
and Those Actually Obtained in the Interconnected System
Demand MW                    Generation in GWh
Forecast   Actual   Difference   Forecast   Actual   Difference %
1973
January         223        221        - 0.9         99         98        - 1.0
February         227       224        - 1.3         102       102            0
March           231        225        - 2.6          97        91        - 6.2 1/
April            229       228        -0.4          101        84        -16.8 1/
May              227       221        - 2.6         102        91        -108 1/
June             225       220        - 2.2        105        104        - 1.0
July            228        225        - 1.3        102        100        - 2.0
August           230       228        - 0.9         104       103        - 1.0
September        230       243        - 5.7         105       108          2.9
October          243       242        - 0.4         107       104        - 2,8
November         251       243        -3.2          112       109        - 2.7
December         254       249        - 2.0         111       110        - 0.9
194
January         240        248        + 3.3        108        108            0
February         245       249        + 1.6         112       114        + 1.8
March            249       240        - 3.6         106       100        - 5.7 2/
April            247       239        - 3.2         110       107        - 2.7
May              244       239        - 2.1         112       106        - 5.4
June            243        237        - 2.5        114        112        - 1.8
July            246        245        - 0.4 .       112       107        - 4.5
August           248       244        - 1.6         113       111        - 1.8
September        249       251        + 2.0         114       114            0
October          262       264        + 2.0         117       111        - 6.o 3/
November         271       267        - 1.8         122       120        - 1.8
December         274       271        - 1.0         121       117        - 3.4
Total                                         1,361      1,327        - 2.5
1/ Load shedding due to late commissioning of San Antonio gas turbines.
2/ New tariffs of 41% authorized.
3/ New tariffs of 18% + 1% per month thereafter authorized.



Knnex 10
Page 1 of 2 pages
APPRAISAL OF FIFTH P01ER PROJECT - COSTA RICA
INSTITUITC COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD (ICE)
Dry Season Energy Requirements
1.        Costa Rica's hydrological characteristics are somewhat exceptional,
due to the nature of the dry season. Due to this, the Bank prompted ICE to
carry out in 1973 a detailed study to determine more precisely the nature of
Costa Rica's critical hydrological year.
2.        The basis for this study was the statistical information of daily
water flow for all the rivers where hydroelectric plants exist or may be
installed in the future. A computer program was used to process all these
data and obtain monthly and seasonal hydraulic generation for different
hydrological probabilities.
3.        ICE selected as a critical hydrological year that which occurs
once every twenty years, i.e., a probability of 5%. Under this assumption,
ICE's calculation showed that the monthly hydroelectric generation avail-
ability for this critical year was slightly higher than the values obtained
from an independent study carried out by Sofrelec at the same time (see annex 9).
4t.       Using the results of the study mentioned in the previous paragraph
and the load forecast (annex 9), ICE determined the monthly generation avail-
ability and requirements for a critical hydrological year during the dry
season (January to May).  Attachment 1 to this annex shows these values (for
the years 1975 through 1981) assuming that the first unit of Arenal is com-
missioned at the end of 1978. (The 30 W Moin diesel power plant is not con-
sidered in attachments 1 or 2, as these tables are shown-to justify its in-
stallation).
5.        It is seen that without considering any energy reserve, i.e., all
thermal units available with a plant factor of 85S%, additional monthly
generation of 14 GWh is required which is equivalent to a capacity of approx-
imately 23 MW. The proposed 30 MW thermal plant (18.6 GWh monthly) leaves
ICE with a monthly generation reserve of 4.6 GWTh in the worst month of a
critical year in 1978.
6.        Attachment 2 is a modification of the figures shown in attachment 1
with the assumption that the first unit of Arenal would not be on line by May
1979. On the same basis as above (critical hydrological year and no energy
reserve), this table shows that in the worst month of the dry season of 1979
a shortage of 27 Gkh exists (equivalent to 43.5 MW).  TAth the installation
of the 30 MW diesel plant, the most severe monthly generation shortage would
be  8.)4 Gih.
7.        On this basis there is a need for the energy conservation program
mentioned in paragraph 4.04 of the text. This energy conservation program
would also have to be applied in the event of a prolonged outage of any of



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2 pages
ICE's gas turbine units during the dry season of 1978, and with more sever-
ity in 1979 under the assumption of paragraph 6.
8.        The installation of more than the proposed 30 MW thermal plant to
cover the combination of contingencies described in paragraphs 6 and 7 is
not considered justified because the losses to the economy would be minimal
if an adequate energy conservation program were put into effect.
Attachment 1
Attachment 2
March 1975



ANALYSIS OF THE INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM DURTN^ TH E DRY PERIOD
OF CRITICAL YEARS 1975-1981 WITH ARENAL ENTERING END 1976
Difference
Requirements                 Reserve                 Total                           Available                                   Total            Difference               witaeout
Hydro                   Therma-l                                                          any reserve,
Ye ar    Month         MW         GWh         MW j          GWh g/        MW         GWh          M_           GWh         MW          GWh         MI!         GWh        MW          GWh       NW          GWh
1975     January    264           119         32           12            296         131         224            97        125          78         349         175         53           414      85           56
February   269          123         32            12           301         135         202            75        125          78         327          153        26           18       58            30
March       274         117         32            12           306         129         203            71        125          70         328          141        22           12       54            24
April       271         122         32            12           303         134         192            67        125          78         317          145        14            11      46            23
May         268         123         32           12            300         135         184            66        125          76         309          142         9             7      41            19
1976     January    288           130         32            12           320         142         224            97        125          78         349          175        29           33       61            45
February   294          135         32            12           326         147         207            75        125          78         332          153         6             6      38            18
March       298         128         32            12           330         140         210            66        125          70         335          136         5          - 4        37            8
April       296         133         32            12           328         145         202            67        125          78         327          145       - 1             -       31           12
May         293         135         32            12           325         147         192            66        125          76         317          142       -8           - 5       24             7
1977     January    314           143         32            12           346         155         224            98        125          78         349          176       - 3           21       29            33
February   320          149         32            12           352         161         211            74        125          78          336         152       -16             9       16           21
March       326         141         32            12           359         153         216            76        125          70          341         146       -18           - 7       14            5
April       323         147         32            12           355         159         209            69        125          78          334         147       -21           -12        1            -
May         319         149         32            12           351         161         205            71        125          76          330         147       -21           -14       11          - 2
1978     January    339           155         32            12           371         167         255            98        125          78          380         176       + 9           + 9       4i           21
February   345          161         32            12           377         173         222            74        125          78          347         152       -30           -21        2          - 9
March       351         153         32            12           383         165         230            76        125           70         355         146       -28           -19        4          - 7
April       348         159          32           12           380         171         219            69        125           78         344         147       -36           -24      - 4          -12
May         344         161         32            12           376         173          212           71        125           76         337         147        -39          -26      - 7          -14
1979      January    366          168         45            12           411         180         366           168        125          78          491         246       +80           +66    +U2            +78
February   373          174         45            12           418         186          368          171        125           78         493         249        +75          +63    +107           +75
March       379         166         45            12           424         178          366          158        125           70         491         228        +67          +5∞    + 99            +62
April       376         172         45            12           421         184          360          162        125           78         485         240        +64          +56    + 96            +68
May         372         174         45            12           417         186          356          164        125           76         481         240        +64          +54    + 96            +66
1980     January    396           182         45            12           441         194         397           182        125          78          522         260        +81          +66      126            78
February   404          189         45            12           449         201          380          171        125           78         505         249        +56          +48      101            60
March       410         180         45            12           455         192          374          158        125           (0         499         228        +44          +36       99           448
April       406         187         45            12           451         199          368          162        125           78         493         240        +42          +41       97            53
May         402         189         45            12           447         201          363          164        125           76         488         240        +41          +39       96            51
1981     January    427           198         45            12           472         210         408           188        125           78         533         266        +61          +56      106            68
February   436          205         45            12           481         217          379          171        125           78         504         249        +23          +32       68            44
March       443         195         45            12           488         207          381          158        125           70         506         228        +18          +21       63            33
April       439         203         105           12           484          215         3(6          162        125           78         501         240        +17           +25       62           37
May         434         205         45            12           4q79        217          370          164        125           Y6        1495         240        +16           +23       61           25
Reserve MW capacity is that of largest generating unit.
j Energy reserve is that corresponding to largest thermal unit (20 MW) working with a plant factor of 0.85.
No overload capacity is considered for the hydraulic units as the problem is lack of water, nor for the thermal units as their overload capacity is only available
for short periods.                                                                                                                                                                                       i
S O



ANALYS.RJ  O ITHE INTERPCODNEtrPD ',YSTEM DURFNG THE DRY PERIOD
OF CRTT CATC, YEJAS 1975-1981 WTT  &DIRAL EATERiNG AFTERR MAY 1979
Difference
Requirements               Reserve                 Total                          Available                                Total             Difference             without
Hydro                  Thermal                                                         any reserve
Year    Month        MM        GWh         M,W4         D.GWh LI      ME        GWh          MW          (;h        MW          GWh         MW         GWh       MW          GWh        MW         GWh
1975    January    264         119         32            12          296        131         224           97       125           78        349         175       53           44        85          56
February   269         123         32           12          301         135        202           75        125           78        327        153        26           18        58         30
March      274         117         32            12         306         129        203           71        125           70        328        141        22           12        54         24
April      271         122         32            12         303         134         192          6/        125           78        317        145        14           11        46         23
May        268         123         32            12         300         135        184           66        125           76        309        142         9            7        41         19
1976    January    288         130         32            12          320        142         224           97       125           78        349         175       29           33        61          45
February   294         135         32            12         326         147         207          75        125           78        332        153         6            6        38         18
March      298         128         32            12         330         140        210           66        125           70        335        136         5          - 4        37           8
April      296         133         32            12         328         145         202           67       125           78        327         i45      - 1            -        31          12
May        293         135         32            12         325         147         192           66       125           76        317        142       -8           - 5        24           7
1977    January    314         143         32            12          346        155         224           98        125          78        349         176      - 3           21        29          33
February   320         149         32            12         352         161         211          74        125           78        336        152       -16            9        16         21
March      326         141         32            12         359         153         216          76        125           70        341         146      -18          - 7        14           5
April      323         147         32            12         355         159         209          69        125           78        334        147       -21          -12        11           -
May        319         149         32            12         351         161         205          71        125           76        330        147       -21          -14        11        - 2
1978    January    339         155         32            12          371        167         255           98        125           78       380         176       + 9         + 9        41          21
February   345         161         32           12          377         173         222          74        125           78        347        152       -30          -21         2        - 9
March      351         153         32            12         383         165         230          76        125           70        355        146       -28          -19         4         - 7
April      348         159         32            12         380         171         219           69       125           78        344         1k7      -36          -24       - 4         -12
May        344         161         32            12         376         173         212           71       125           76        337         147      -39          -26       - 7         -14
1979    January    366         168          32           12          398         180        261           98        125           78       491         246      -12           - 4       +20        + 8
February   373         174         32            12         405         186         230           74       125           78        493         2k9     -5            -34       -18         -22
March      379         166         32            12        4k1          178         239           76       125           70        491         228     -47           -32       -15         -20
April      376         172         32            12          4o8        184         228           69       125           78        485         24o     -55           -37       -23         -25
May        372         174         32            12         404         186         221           71       125           76        481         240     -q8           -39       -26         -27
1980    January    396         182         45            12          4141       194         397          182        125           78       522         260       +81          +66      126          78
February   404         189         45            12         449         201         380          171       125           78        505         249      +56          +48       101          60
March      410         180         4S            12         45S         192         374          158       125           70        499         228      +44          +36        99          48
April      406         187         45            12         451         199         368          162       125           78        493         240      +42          +41        97          53
May        402         189         45            12         447         201         363          164       125           76        488         240      +41          +39        96          51
1981    January    427         198         45            12          472         210        408          188        125           78        533        266       +61          +56      106          68
February   436         205         45            12         481         217         379          171       125           78        504         249      +23          +32        68          44
March      443         195         45            12         488         207         381          158       125           70        506         228      +18          +21        63          33
April      439         203         45            12         484         215         376          162       125           78        501         240      +17          +25        62          37
May        434         205         45            12         479         217         370          164       125           76        495         240      +16          +23        61          25
0
/ Reserve MW capacity is that of largest generating unit.
i/ Energy reserve is that correspondirng to largest thermal unit (20 MW) working with a plant factor  of 0.85
3/ No overload capacity is considered for the hydraulic units as the problem is lack of water, nor for the thermal units as their overload capacity is only available
for short periods.



zAnex- 11
P'ag e 1 o` 2 p ages
APPEATIS.- OF r       ?JF! 7-H ?  WF-  - A 'A RICA
TlT5T;'AIr l.,T0 W CCSLAn2i--o_;H --_  .El..TPRI2ZkiT) \ICE)
e _   Ct z    So1uti o 
aIn al  the economic  z_znkaro-cns carried cut, the fcllowTin-
assinmpticnr  rn relation to fuel prices were used:
a,   3ost- o-F fu& -- Ci   re  Cj' = 30% of' crudoS oils~
b.   c_st of dL,ese  oi- =         of crude oo_J_i
c.   cos-t of dieSel G__ = 139%  of fuel oil,
These -reatic:nshitpe are -_-la at   0ent in  costa RicA ang have been
aptrc.: lr-a-telv so foèr the I   t s en years.
C3le  __st  _f    _'L _ W  Ocsta Rica was tk en to be US$9/
fr o-i v t -at-e, corresponds
ap.ox_-- l  o  B 3$       !tar1, rel FzfB PMiddle East.  Comparisons
made VIrtL  r-gher  -a c- I  b, s  sUS$12/barrel 0CIF3 Csta Rica)
en-;:eG SljiAer esual∞stn2   -ccimt rates for the proposed
ge nr_ar a~~ J ~a c
'ie aonoi  ,s- i-∞-. cat  fo   th i-:b-     a a,nsa tio 3  of thUe Rio Macho
ad Cac'ioi extenisio-ns "se --ragrnnh w_  of- teo' 'ae,      made cy- -3mnarin
t;ee-  n ^ ;o 't-h of' ta e   :_a8 caz3 i, o-.peation and ra-aItenance  cests -Ath
-'-at- cf t2i~e C      of fuel -necessary to generatte the t'herm-al ereri^-r they
_   s_d  no a<-n a7,-caze yjeA--y- genera   n of 20 GIIi and 70 GWh
rCeS-3u-3-I VEI-e     'he     ares.l   -re p eted in at'dach.re-nts 1 and 2 to this
a-:-!e-, ,ihi^h s c-- t1at tohe R` o     and Cachi extensions are the least
cost                 d-sount -'-'-   to '6.è% and 20.5i%  respectively.
-- -n  the  est coSt e-J lution foit ie Drcposed thermal
e WKI p      orer  -lt a zrntarison  ass carried cutbetween:
meadi-m speed diesel unrits
- low stee-d diesel ur.its
- gas t- rines
The capital cost o0  these units were assumed to be:
-  medium speed diesel = 7r% slow speed diesel
-  gas !turbines = 50% slow speed diesel
Fuel used f or the diIfferent  type of machines:



Annex 11
Page 2 of 2 pages
-    medium speed diesel - 70% fuel oil, 30% diesel oil
-    slow speed diesel - 100% fuel oil
-    gas turbines - 100% diesel oil
The assumptions regarding capital costs and fuel consumption for the medium
speed diesel engines are conservative in the sense that they favor the slow
speed diesel engines solution.
4.        Calculating the present worth of capital, operation and maintenance
and fuel costs, it was shown (see attachment 3) that the medium speed diesel
engines were the least cost solution for discount rates up to above 18%. A
comparison was also made with a steam turbine plant and gave the same result
i.e., least cost solution is the medium speed diesel power plant for discount
rates up to above 18%. (This comparison is not shown in attachment 3 for
clarity of presentation.)
5.        The complete generation program of the proposed project was compared
with two all-thermal solutions providing for the minimum requirements to
meet energy and demand needs. The two alternatives considered were:
i.   a steam power plant of 50 MW to be installed in 1977 and a gas
turbine of 20 MW to be installed in 1981; and
ii.   a gas turbine plant of 2 x 25 MW to be installed in 1977 with
an additional 20 MW gas turbine unit in 1981.
A comparison with all diesel or diesel plus gas turbines was felt to be
meaningless having already been considered in the justification of the
individual project components.
6.        The present worth values of the three different solutions (con-
sidering capital, operation, maintenance and fuel costs) are shown in attach-
ment 4, which justifies the proposed project components for discount rates
up to 21%. An additional comparison was made with an all steam power plant
solution which justifies the proposed generating facilities for discount
rates up to above 25%.
7.        In the study carried out by Sofrelec (annexes 9 and 10) an analysis
was made comparing the voltages of the future transmission systems for the
hydroelectric developments of Arenal-Santa Rosa and Angostura then under
consideration. It was found that 220 kV was the least cost solution when
compared with 138 kV for all discount rates. The choice of 220 kV has the
additional advantage of preparing the Costa Rican system for possible inter-
connection of the Central American isthmus.
Attachment 1
Attachment 2
Attachment 3
Attachment 4
March 1975



APPRAISAL OF FIFTH POVVER PROJECT - COSTA RICA
ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION OF RIO MACHO EXTENSION
2.2             l
2.0
1.8  0                     \                                                                             Price of Crude Oil US$ 9/barrel
1.6
1.4F
1.2
1.0
0.8                                                                                 E I           l  
6           7            8             9           10           11           12           13           14           15           16           17           18        PO
Discount Rate
World Bank-9797



APPRAISAL OF FIFTH POWER PROJECT -COSTA RICA
ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION OF CACHI EXTENSION
2.6                                                                                                                            - _- - ------------- '--'-'----
2.4
2.2                                                                                                                                    Price of Crtidc (0:         I '.  .Vba;i(,.
2.0
O     1.8
1.6
1.4
1.2
1.0
I             I            I             I             I             I            I             I             II                                        I.                _     __
7            8             9            10            11            12           13            14            15            16            17            18            19            20             21
Discount Rate
World Bank-9796
I'-)



APPRAISAL OF FIFTH POWER PROJECT - COSTA RICA
LEAST COST SOLUTION FOR
MOIN THERMAL POWER PLANT
180
Price of Crude Oil US$ 9/barrel
170
Gas Turbine
160/
150 _\
Slow Speed
140     I Medium Speed                            Diesel
Diesel
B   130
CO
120-
110
100 _
90 _
80         I      I            I             I     I            I      i     I      I
5     6     7      8      9    10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18              C+
Discount Rate                                                OX
World Bank-9662         C+
U)



APPRAISAL OF FIFTH POWER PROJECT - COSTA RICA
ECONOMIC COMPARISON OF PROJECT GENERATION
FACILITIES WITH ALL-THERMAL SOLUTIONS
340
320  -                                                                                           Price of Crude Oil US$ 9/barrel
300 -
All Gas Turbine (70 MW)
280-
260-
240-
0 240 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Combined Steam (50 MW) and
t)  220                        \                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gas Turbine (20 MW)
220-
a),\
200  -
180  -               Proposed Project
160  -
140
120  -
100        I     I      I     I      I      I     I      I     I      I      I     I      I      I      L
5     6      7     8      9    10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24    25                    P cD
Discount Rate
World Bank-9663        9



Ariex 12
Page 1 of 4 pages
APPRAISAL OF FIFTH POWER PROJECT - COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIJID (ICE)
Return on Investment
1.        Two rates of return were calcalated:
a.   the rate of return on investment in the project generation
facilities and associated transmission and distribution works;
and
b.   the rate of return considering the whole generation program
through 1979 (including the Arenal hydroelectric power plant,
the transmission works of the project and associated distri-
bution facilities.
2.        The bases of these calculations are the following:
a.   construction costs exclude price escalation beyond the first
quarter of 1975 and interest during constr^uction;
b.   incremental cost for distribution equipment was estimated at
US$140/kTAT.  Distribution equipment for the Rio Macho and Cachi
extensions -wPas considered as being necessary in 1988 when it is
assuxmed that these units will be utilized to supply new loads rather
than to replace generation of existing thermal plants. No distribu-
tion investment was considered for the Moin power plant as its intended
utilization (see paragraph 4.01 of the text) is that of meeting
energy demands during the dry season, therefore, replacing hydro-
electric energy for which the distribution networks already exist.
c.   operation and maintenance costs were calculated based on actual
data supplied by ICE. Labor costs were computed at market prices.
d.   Foreign exchange costs were computed at the free rate of exchange.
e.   The incremental benefits were calculated using the average retail
unit price of electric energy paid by the ultimate consumer and
ICE?s estimates of generation (and therefore sales) by the generation
components considered in the two alternatives anralyzed.  These esti-
mates of generation are based on the assunption of normal hydrolo-
gical years for the period considered i.e., 50 years - the assumed
life of the hydro portion of the project.
3.        Based on the information shown in the tables on pages 2 and 3 of
return for the two alternatives mentioned in l.a. and lb. are 15.3% and 11.8%
respectively.



Annex 12
Page 2 of 4 pages
ensit±-rtTjV analysis
If in`=estrment and operatin2 costs are assumed to rise by lC%
the rates of return -would be 111% and 10.?% respectively.
Project, ti:ing
5.        The possibility of postponing the project generation facilities
and associated transmission works for one year was evaluated by comqputing
the discount rate which eqalizes the savings in investment and operating
costs -which would result'  with the benefits that would be lost.  Since
this ra-ts is aooD-e 71-, it would be uneconomic to postpore the project-.



RetLro o,-, ]nuenLu,eul (Project Generation Failitirre)
(In Million of Colons)
(13 90cRn)             ( 4 yeans)              (16 yoars)
1974     19W7     19'76     977     1978     1979    1.980      1981     5 932    1983     1984     1985      1986     198'(    1933     1989-oo01      2002     2003-2006     2007     2008-2023
Capital costa of:
Generation equipment        1.60    27.40   104.00    28.64                                                                                                                        8L.oo
Transmission equipment       .15     0.23    20.80      1.90                                                                                                                                               23.00
Distribution equipment                                                                                                                                      (2.00
Operation and maintenance
cot- -    _                         2.31     2.31      2.       231      2 .31    2.31     2 31     2.31      2.31     2        2.31     4.!7        4.             7       4.47t       4.47         4.47
Total costs                 1.75    27.63   124.80    42.85      2.31     2.31     2.31     2.31     2.31      2.31     2.31     2.31     2.31      2.31    76.147       4.47      85.47       4.47        27.47        4.47
Total benefits                                         39.60    41.10    13.60    20.40    32.40    33.10    11.50    19.70    32.40    38.oo    46.70    55.40         56.90      56.90      56.90        56.90       56.90
Rate of return 15.3%



Co,aplcte Progrol th_sogh 1979 Including Arenal
(Jn .ilions of Colons)
1974    19(5    1976    19(7    1978    19'f9    1980    1981    l985    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    ]988               1989-2001     200?    2003-2006     2007    2008-5023
CapitaL costs of:
Generation equipment       45.1  127.40   239.00  173.6 (   129.00     30.00                                                                                                81.00
Transmaision equipment      0.47    1.31    75.(0   80       93.40                                                                                                                                 187.00
Distribution equipaeot                               31,30    3]30     31.30    3I.3()   31.30                                                       72.00                                         156. o
Operation and naintenance             - _              2,31    3,25    _2213    13.l0    19.0    19.95   19.99    14.95    19.95       l9.L      19.95  l7.11     17.11       17.11       17.11       17.11      17.11
TotaL costa                45.57  128.71   314.00   287.25   251.95    73,43    4494∞0  49530   14.95   14.95    14.95    14.95      14.95     14.95  89.11     17.11       98.11       17.11      360.11      17.11
TotaL benefits                                       39.60   41.10   129-00   132.80   167.'(0   162.60  1 L3.90   153.20   171.60    175.10    185.90 194950  196.3(      196.30      196.30      196.30     196.30
Rate of ret-rs 11"                                                                                                                                                             .8
May 1975                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0



Annex e3
Pag_ 1 of 3 pages
APPRAISAL OF FIFTH PO-VER PROJECT - COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARR7CENSE DE ELECTRIC]7DAD 'ICE)
Organlzation7   M aIn+1agement and Training
Organization and management
1.        ICE has a seven-memTber board of directors, one of wqhom is the
Minister of Public Works serving ex-oficio.  The other board members are
appointed by the government for eight-year terms on a staggered basis and
are eligible for re-appointment.  Prior to 1970, Costa Rican laws apecified
the composition of ICE's board by profession of it;s members; that provision
was replaced in that year by another specifying their political affiliation.
The political party in power nominates four members of the board, and the
opposition, three. wTile this provision might appear unduly restrictive,
ICE's board membership has maintained sufficient continaity; two board
members have served since ICE's inception, and a third since 1954.
2.        Underan April 1974 law the full-time position of executive presidency
was created for all autonomous institutions, including ICE. The executive
president is nominated by the president of the republic to preside over both
board meetings ard the institution's operations, ICEs first executive presi-
dent is one of the two origiral mebeSrs of its board and with the additional
responsibilities he has begur, to add needed depth and peropective to ICE's
policv making and top management.
3.        The board appoints ICE's general manager, three dep-aty managers,
treasurer and auditor.  The general manager appoints other o:icials, sub-
ject to board approval for senior posts.
4.        Prior to April 1973, seven divisions reported to ICEts general
manager. Four cf these related to electric operations, one to telecommuni-
cations. and two tO accounting and administrative natters.  In 1973, ICE
took a large step towards autono-my of its two operating sections boy creat-
ing three deputy managers: one each for power, telecoMnmunicaticns and
administrative ser-ices.
5.        As shown in the attached organization chart, ICE's power section
has five divisions:  planning, engineering, construction, production and
distribution.  This organilzation reflects the emphasis which ICE has placed
on construction of works but is satisfactory to meet the needs.
6.        In theory , ICE should achieve economies of scale by having one
finance/administratio-n section nerform all commiercial and support functions,
which are basically sirilar for the two operating dvsioins, ITn practice,
however, there is a darer th^at the adriniLstrative section may become self-
serving.  -o _ome degree, this process may have begun:  there is evidence of



Annex 13
Page 2 of 3 pages
the finance/administrative section's non-responsiveness to the needs of the
two operating sections; and the increase in its operating expenses have been
in excess of ICE's revenues or the operating sections' expenses. The prob-
lem can be resolved to some degree by controlling the section's future per-
sonnel growth, as would be done by adherence to the performance indicators
(paragraph 3.08 of the text and annex 3).
Training
7.        ICE's personnel training department (in its finance/administration
section) conducts surveys to identif. the training needs of all three sec-
tions. To provide technical training for its power employees, ICE has de-
veloped cooperative training programs in conjunction with Costa Rica's
Instituto Nacional de Aprendizaje and Instituto Tecnologico; most technical
training will be carried out in cooperation with these institutions. The
utility arranges for its professional employees to take courses at the
Universidad de Costa Rica or outside the country, depending on the avail-
ability of the required training.
8.        The program for the next five years provides for training for
almost 800 power-section employees, as detailed below:
Professional               Technical            Total
1975              27                       108                135
1976              31                       113                144
1977              36                       121                157
1978              4i                       129                170
1979              46                       137                183
Total           181                        608                789
This training program is adequate.
Organizational separation
9.        Authorizing ICE, which was at the time a comparatively well-
managed and financially viable public institution, to provide telecommunica-
tions in addition to power was an effective method of instituting nation-
wide telecommunications service in the mid-1960s. However, previous Bank
missions have observed that the lack of separation of responsibility for
the two services would eventually have detrimental results to one or both
of them, particularly as the size of both operations grows, because of:
their distinctness from planning, technical, operational and marketing
points of view; and the inability of a single board and executive to cope
with increasingly complex problems of the two divergent sectors. In
negotiations on the fourth power and third telecommunications projects
(loans 800- and 801-CR, respectively )ICE agreed to hire management con-
sultants to study, inter alia, the degree of autonomy desirable for optimumn
provision of each service.



Anrex 13
Page 3 of 3 pages
10.       The management consultants (Urwick) founrd that:  ICE's present
organization and management are capable of running both operations satis-
factorily; as both operations grow, the need to separate ICE will become
apparent to the management and directors; and (in view of the strong.feel-
ings of ICE and the government against separation') there is no compelling
reason to separate the institution now.
11.       While ICE's present organization does not separate the two opera-
ting sections as much as previous Bank missions had suggested - e.g., it
does not include separate accounting or personnel organizations for each of
the operating sections - it does establish reasonable autonomy for each,
subject only to the general manager and the board. Responsibilities remain-
ing under the deputy manager for finance and administration are only those
whichl do not relate directly to provision of electric or telecommunications
service, leaving each operating section free to carry out its own planning,
engineering, construction and operations. With assurances concerning the
continued separate operation of the-two sections (see paragraph 5.04 of the
text) the present arrangement is acceptable.
Attachment
March 1975



INSTIT(I10 COSTARRICENSE DE EEECTRICIDAO (iCEI
POWER SECTION
GSWFRAT ~ ~ ~ ~      ~        ~         ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~rOENDN ICNIA
=OSMS,S BAI COC



Lnnex 14
Page 1 of 13 pages
ApPFR'TS.èL cF EOF T PAOWTER PROJECT - COSTA RIt
-~~Xr~~T-h.C CSTA-IChEE DE ELECTRI IDAD (IcE)
Dower Section Finarnial Statements and Forecasts
Summary
1.        This annex includes the following financial statements and fore-
casts of ICE's power section for 1972-79:
a.   key financ-ial ra-l_A   - _   3
b.   income statenentS - Fage 14
c.   forecast funds statemerts - page 5
d, constructioin programra details - page 6
e.   forecast debt service - page 7
f.   outstanding debt - nage 8
a.   balance sheets - page 9
hK   assu,ms-s:n s u se  i  farecasts - page 10 ff
r~-i:P!~r--cr- eama  -ran~m  coaicon
7~~~~~C rG- Z,;l_        S Slc l-aiJ.t 
2.        I3B's pow-,^7er section has had satisfactory oper-a-ting res-lts, with
nominal rates of return c` 10-13%, since 1968.  Revaluation of rate base to
reflect local price inflaticn. which hnas beer incre-asing at a-.in-al rates of
at least 25% beginning 4n l9-35, wo0ould have decreased its 1973 levels some-
w4hat below tnhe 9% rate incluaed in Bank loan agreements, but         to seriously
low l1vels.
3 ay 20fc-egre-, the generally-adequate earnings levels were ins-ufficient
1Fc C y f-Jcr cost overrins of 90-1'00'a-' on the third power project (see para-
g,rapn 5,35 a the tex,,). Because TCE had to resort --to redi-m-term com-
mercial fi-nancing to pay for these overruns3  -t enco-ntered sever-e cash
problems in 1973 and earliY 1974, so that it wuculd^ have been u,noable to cover
its power-section debt sertice in 1974t W1 Zhcut remed-al actions.
4          1hTe remedial actions were twof old:  tari&f increases and debt
rescheduling,  After discussion .a th a Bank supervision mission- in September
19733 ICH applied for an electric tariff increase to raise its power revenues
by   % .LX  SNE apprcrved this increase in '%arch 197v   .51  apoved furt-her
tariff increases of 18% in ceptenioer 197i and 1% per month fcr each of 1974's
remaining months3 which wTere needed -unimarnly to compensate for the March
1971; exchange-rate unification of the colon.  In 197L4-75 ICE a'lso refinanced
US$30 raillion of short-to-medium-term debt which it contracted for in the
early 1970s with lower-cost and longer-term debt.



Annex 14
Page 2 of 13 pages
5.        With the above actions, the power section's financial performance
is expected to be adequate for 1974, showing a rate of return of above 9%
and debt-service coverage of 1.4 times.  Wth revaluation reflected in the
accounts, the power section's debt/equity ratio at year-end 1974 would be
an acceptable 56/44.
Future financial performance
6.        As noted in paragraph 3.05 of the text, Costa Ricar price infla-
tion is expected tc conrtinue at high rates throughout the project period.
To provide for an adequate pricing mechanism for electricity, it is assumed
that ICE's power assets will be revalued annually at the assuimed inflation
rates, and that its electricity tariffs will be set so as to produce a 9%
annual return cn t.he revalued assets.  This will require an increase of
about 100% in  C!CE  bulk and retail tariffs by 1979, the first year after
project completicn.
7.        Assuming the prompt implementation of necessary tariff increases,
the financial performance of ICEts power section is expected to be satis-
factory throughout the project period, as indicated by its key financial
ratios. Because of its still-heavy debt-service requirements and its
ambitious construction program, its contribution-to-expansion ratio for the
project period is expected to be low - about 21%.  This is acceptable for
reasons detailed in paragraph 6.10 of the text.



ICE Power Section
Key F1nancial Ratios 1972-79
(Amounts expressed in millions of' colones)
1972     1973     1974       1975       1976       197'(       1978        1979
Return on net plant
Average net utility plant in operation            421.2    507.3    898.8    1,499        1,859      2,298      2,998        4,285
Operating income                                   54.4      54.5     84.2      135         172        217        271          386
Percentage return                                  12.9     10.7       9.4        9.0         9.3        9.4        9.1          9.o
Debt
Times debt service covered by internal
cash generation               1.9      1.3      1.4        1.7         1.4        1.7         2.0         1.8
Debt/equity ratio                                 54/46    56/44    56/44       52/48       54/46      54/46     52/48          50/50
Working capital
Working capital at year-end                        55 .4     49.3     65.5       49.5        55.8       60.5       55.6         68.3   t D
Current ratio (to 1.0)                              1.8       1.4      1,6        1.3         1.3        1.3        1.2          1.2   Ux
0 z
Depreciation
As a per!entage of' average gross utility plant    2.23      2.51     2.87       2. 94       2. 9!!     2.96       2.'38        2.92 ,
(D2
(2



ICE Power Section
Income Statements 1972-79
(in thousands of colones)
---Actual - - -           Estimated         - - - - - - - -           Projected - - - - - - - - - - - - --
1972          1973           1974           1975           1976           1977           1978           1979
Energy sales in GWh:
Bulk                                                              712.4          785.2          874.5          945.7        1,o48.1       1,160.0        1,281.L        1,409.8
Retail                                                            130.0          154.9          159.5          168.6          182.7          198.7          215.7         234.1
Total               8%i97                                                      940.1        1,034.0-      i7,l 3         1,64230.9      TT357          T1V9
Average price per kWh - in colones
Bulk                                                                0.109          0.108          0.152          0.210          0.242          0.280          0.322          0.400
Retail                                                              0.151          0.155          0.187          o.260          0.300          0.350          0.403          0.500
Revenues from energy sales - bulk                                77,299         84,604        132,904        198,597        253,640       324,800        412,514        563,920
- retail                             19,666         23,996        29,830         43,836         54,810         69,545         86,927        117,050
Other operating revenues                                            397            493          1 200          1,320       1_jL52            1,597         1,757          1,933
Total operating revenues                                       97,362        109,093        163,934             5309,,02                395,942        501,196 582,903
Operating expenses:
Purchased electricity                                           2,424             24           -              _              -             -              -              -
Generation                                                     12,107         16,614         17,959         18,411         21,734        30,389         33,679         40,381
Transmission and distribution                                   6,627          9,454         11,907         15,238         20,386        26,805         35,562         43,591
Institutional                                                   7,903         10,670         14,351         17,415        22,591         29,771         37,103         45,682
Insurance                                                         519            595          2,081          2,367         2,829           3,955         7,351          8,o87
Regulatory expense                                              1,213          1,497          2,248          2,458          3,543          3,972          5,665         6,132
Depreciation                                                   12 140         15.744         31,217         52,346         66,512         84,267       111 200        152 605
Total operating expenses                                     #-933          54,598         79,976i3      108,235       137,595        179,159
operating income                                             54,429         54,495         84,171        135,518       172,307        216,783        270,638        386,425
Non-operating expense:
Interest paid                                                  29,224         44,o05         53,900         86,573       144,871        178,952        214,800        265,490
Less interest charged to construction                          12 351         1913364                                       5,741         95,971        143 154       105 217
Interest charged to operations              16,873            -%4,920 39,370             73,209         99,130         82,981            646
Less non-operating income                                       7 943          7,204         11 480          9 350          8,974          7,966          7 677         9 224
Net non-operating expense                                     819307,71                 6                     99  -  -                  75,015                       15,969  0549
Net income                                                   45,499         36,779         56,281         '71,659        82,151       141,768         206,669        235,3'76
Capital and surplus at beginning of year                      326,138        372,512        410,5'78       704,503     1,009,959      1,393,126      1,870,563      2,528,395
Contributions                                                     909          1,287          1,384          1,430          3,382          5,997          4,917          4,198
Revaluation                                                      -              -           236,260        232,367        297,634        329,672        446,246        320,400 o
Other charges                                                       3-                                                       -              -              - _  __D
Capital and surplus at end of year                            372,512        410,578        704,503      1,009,959      1,393,126     1,870,563       2,528,395      3,088,369    o -
0)
'0
S
(D'0



CE lbowcr Sectioh
Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds 1975-79
(in thousands of colones)
Total
1975           1976           1977           1978        1975-78            1979
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal cash generatiorn:
Net operating income                              135,518        172,307         216,783        270,638        795,246        386,425
Depreciation                                       52,346         66,512          84,267        111,200        314,325        152,605
Other income                                        9,350          8,974           7,966          7,677         33,967          9,224
Bond repayment by CNF1,                             2 ?,662        2 8,19                          3 376       1_239            3,655
Total               --9,A                                      250,6751.       312,135        39           1,155,577        551,909
Debt service (see pape 7 for details):
Amortization                                      I12,147       79,536          96,48         1''1,3'72      339,503        147,322
Interest charged to operations                   71209          99 130         82,98:          71.646        326,966        160 273
'Total debt service                           13_,3TI _,__6                  17'W9          193,018        666,469        307,95
Net internal casli generation                  84,520         72,009         132,706        199,873        489,108        244,314
Borrowings:
Existing loans - IBRD 800-CR                          818          2,031            -              -             2,849
IDB 273                            1,018           -              -               -             1,018           -
CABEI loan                         7,775          2,264           -               -            10,039
Commercial loans, net              7,310         50,985         76,380            -           134 675          _
Total existing                                 16,302 55,2                0        0           -
Proposed loans:
Bank loan                                      30,676        186,543         181,0)55        45,813        444,o87
CABEI loan                                      7,062         30,828          40,3.85        70,19         156,271
IDB Arenal loan                                82,874        165,655         177,988        122,182        548;699
Local bonds                                    35,000         30,000          25,000         23,500        113,500         30,000
FIV loans                                        -            75,000          75 000        125, 000       275,000         80,000
Total proposed                              155*12            3,02         49,22               9       1,537,557         310,000
Future loan:  Santa Rosa foreign cost              -              -              9 140        129,141        13,281          313,904
Total borrowings                            172,533        53,36           584,748        523,32       1,82419          423,904
Contributions - from customers and from
CNFL for local project costs                         1,43           3,382           5,997          4,917         15,26            4,198
Total sources                               258483              7         _723,451 4728622             2.329,3           672,416
APPLICATIONS OF FUlNDS
Construction program (see page 6 for details):
Existing projects and continuing works           33,180          18,625          7,379          9,287         68,471          10,984
Proposed projects:  IBRD fifth                   )15,639       286,109         314,264        12,665         768,67'7
A, eol1 jyd:ro              153,7)13       ?84, 670       330,)418        340,306      1,109,13'7       125,524
Future project:  Santa Rosa hydro                                 3___            408         ,"6311.i       260,719         503,403
Total const.uction                               289, 404 6,6,465                                        -2 t  '2(7,flv Z-3 91~91l
Studies of future projects                        4,693           5,959          7,351          8,954         26,95'(         10,710
Additiorts to working capital:
Cash                                              753          11,443         10,704          -756           22,144          3,868
Other                                          20,475          11,891         18,927         21,855         73,148          17,927
Total additions to working capital           21,22.         2333           29,631         ,70            _ 2              21,795  
se
Total applications of funds                 2568897                         2345           728,622      2,329,253        672,416    u 
o z
Cash at beginning of year                             2,810           3,563         15,006         25,71D 24,954
Cash at end of year                                   3,563          15,006         25,710          24,954                        28, 822  ~



ICE Power Section
Construction Program 1975-79
Including Interest Charged to Construction
(in thousands of colones)
Total
1975           1976            1977            1978         1975-78            1979
Existing projects and continuing works:
Fourth IBRD project                                     7,268           5,262            -               -             12,530            -
Second IDB project (distribution)                       1,605            -                                               1,605          _
Second CABEI project (Cachi-Moin line)                 11,230           6,170            -               -             17,400            _
Routine expansion                                      13,077           7 193           7 379           9,287          36 936          10 984
Total existing and continuing                        33,180                           7,379           987 1  0, 9o4
Proposed projects:
IBRD fifth project:
Rio Macho extension                                   2,484         14,339           22,946            -             39,769            -
Cachi extension                                       4,425         24,652          35,258             _            64,335             -
Moin diesel plant and fuel tanks                     15,898         62,214            9,480            -             87,592            -
Transmission works:  related to Arenal                  274         23,746           59,573          34,365        117,958             -
related to fifth project
generation         247          29,993           1,312             -            31,552             -
San Jose ring plus distri-
bution   14,272          24,543          17,869           6,106          62,790            -
line extensions                  411          26,358          26,207          10,290          63,266            -
Load dispatching system                                  47.        . -106          14,7583          1,349          16,260o            -
Studies                                                -             2,o60             -               -              2,o60            -
Total base cost                                  37,055          205             187,403          52,110         4U5,582             -
Physical contingencies                               3,805          20,801          18,740            5,211         48,557             -
Price contingencies                                  2,036          39,.440         64,879          10,356         116,711             -
Interest during construction                         1,740          17,857          43,242          54 988         117,827             -       , d
Total fifth project                                    3206,i9                                                                       -
Arenal hydro development                              153,743         284,670         330 418         340,306       1,109,137         125 524    ox
Total proposed                                   199,382         570,779         644,682         462,971             7H
Future project:  Santa Rosa hydro development              -               _             34,408         226,311         260,719         503,403    >
Total construction prograrn                      232,562         589,404         686,469         698,569       2,207,004         639,911   m
(D



ICE Power Section
Forecat Debt Service  1975-79                              Pa-gr 7-R13 p4ges
(in thoumands of colones)
INTEREST AND COMI SSIONS                                    1975         1976         1977          1978         1979
Existing debt:
IBRD loans - 276-CR                                       2,948        3,110        3,169         3,175        3,083
346-CR                                      4,519         4,793        4,917         5,005        4,973
631-CR                                       6,803        7,492        8,o48         8,601        9,013
800-CR                                       4,644        4,8554       5,228         5,550        5,765
Foreign currency revaluation                 2 866        3,12L        3 294         3 465        3 562
Total IBRD                                             2t1Wo        23,370  246                25,79 26,   396
IDB loans                                                 2,308        2,52:L        1,861        1,877        1,845
CABEI loans                                               1,750        2,457         2,496        2,378        2,171
Total international agencies                           25,838       28,348        29,013       30,051       30,412
US Eximbank                                               1,160        1,31:3        1,453        1,505         1,200
Ebasco loan                                               5,o83        5,417         5,594        5,704         5,641
Foreign commercial loans                                 10 101        8 344         5 668        3,163          868
Total foreign                                          42,182        I,21,                     40,423       38,121
ICE bonds                                                 8,841       14,012        11,470       11,268       11,041
Other local loans                                         3,145        2,75(         2 406        2 161        1 998
Total existing                                         54,168       60,184        50316
Proposed borrowing:
Bank loan                                                   956       12,597        28,398       44,o46       47,745
CABEI loan                                                  273        1,802         5,164        7,460       12,056
IDB loan (Arenal)                                        10,563       23,987        32,877       35,333       53,328
Local bonds                                               2,100        5,895         8,895       11,730       14,700
Commercial financing                                     18,513       37,406        38,027       37,259       32,917
Venezuelan loans                                           -           3 00(         9,210       18 855       28,489
Total proposed                                         32,405                    122,571      154,683       189,235
Future borrowing for foreign cost of Santa Rosa
hydro project             -            -              77         6.265        25,095
Total interest and commissions                         86,573      144,87L      178,952      214,800       265,490
AMORTIZATI ON
Existing debt:
IBRD loans:  276-CR                                       3,513        4,203        4,925         5,771        6,644
346-CR                                       5,067        6,058        7,093         8,269        9,458
631-CR                                       2,776        3,347        3,990         4,725        5,411
8oo-CR                                        -           1,185        2,793         3,339        3,905
Revaluation                                  1,674        2 152        2 667         3,150        3,616
Total IBRD                                             13,030                                   5,2         29,034
IDB loans                                                 2,853        3,229        3,574         3,950        4,295
CABEI loans                                                -           1,948        4,312         4,766        5,182
Total international agencies                                        22,122        29,354       33,970       38,511
US Eximbank                                                -            -             -           6,690        7,274
Ebasco loan                                               3,760        4,592'        5,484        6,540        7,674
Foreign commercial loans                                 16,926       27,501        28,293       17,766       13,824
Total foreign                                          36,59        54,215        63,131       64,967       67,283
ICE bonds                                                   957        1,424         1,602        1,804        2,031
Other local loans                                         4 621        4,4293        3,942        1,939        1,658
Total existing                                                      60,6         68,675        68,709       70,972
Proposed borrowing:
Bank loan                                                  -            -              -           -          10,056
CABEI loan
Venezuelan loan                                            -            -              -           -            5,469
Commercial financing                                       -          17,718        24,523       48,163       54,825
ICE bonds                                                 -            1,750         3,253        4,500        6,ooo
Total proposed                                           -          19,468        27,773       52,63         76,350
Total amortization                                     42,147       79,536)       96,448      121,372       147,322



Annex 14
Page   of 13 pages
ICE Power Section
Outstanding Debt at December 31, 1973
(in thousands of colones)
IBRD loans - 276-CR                                           40,71&
346-CR                                          64,715
631-3?.                                         790u
800-CR                                          41,030
Total IBRD                                                 2253553
IDB loans                                                     21,361
CABEI loans                                                       826
Total international agencies                                      3
Ebasco loar                                                    51S769
Foreign ccmnercial loans                                    1]3- 38
Tota-l foreign                                             4 5 47
ICE bords                                                    118,052
Other local loans                                              26 238
Total                                                      577,'37
Note:  The above amounts do not reflect fluctuations in foreign-exchange
rates with respect to the US dollar since 1971.  Revaluing ICE's
IBRD debt to reflect such fluctuations would increase its valuation
by about 15%, or 034,000.  Almost all other foreign debt is denomi-
nated in US dollars.



ICE Power Section
Balanice Sheets at December 31, 1972-79
(in thousands of colones)
- - - -Auidited- - - -      EsLimrated         - - - - - - - - -           -  Irojected - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1972            1973           19(4            1975            19i76           1977            19,78            1979
ASSETS
Utility plant in service                                         591,599        662,035       1,513,247       2,047,739       2,476,912       3,213,030       4,237,718       6,226,355
Less accumulated depreciation                                   IN3 586         150 657         227 121         336 247         4/(o oo8        624 776         829,692       1 065 266
Net utility plant in service                                   l,                                          -I, 3  s3  ,2S6375f  l711,42  2, 00)90  2,5E>    3,408l,026      5T11,
Construction work in progress                                   204 016         28%2_13         172 297         26'1  37        883 184       1L338,9?0       1 697237          798 8
Net utility plant                                              65,029         ^795,091t     1,'45'3         1,973,329       2,,80           3,927,1374      5,105,263           9, 7t
Studies of future projects                                       18,980          17,792          19,583          27,339          38,'766          50,111         64,488           81,6417
Investments                                                      66,164           64,54'7        54,385          51,723          48,841          45,722          42,346           38,691
Current and other assets:
Cash and short-term investments                                  5,741           3,826          2,810           3,563          15,006          25,710          24,954          28,822
Accounts receivable less reserve                               14,319          24,734          23,357          3l,0)0o          42,000          52,000         65,000           87,ooo
Materials in stock and in transit                              94,450         131,934         137,210         157,00)         172,000         191,000         211,000         215,000
Other current assets                                               230             282             300             300             300             300             300             300
Other assets                                                    12,430          17 96)         18 186          18 500          18,500          18 500          18,500           18,500
Total current and other                                     127,170                            ]E1 23,3                     247,806   2      7gyo           319,754         349,622
Total assets                                              877,343       1,056,170       174254          2265,75         3,225,501       4,310,517  5, 531, 851 6,429,920
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Equity                                                           372,512         410,578        704,503       1,009,959       1,393,126       1, 8'0,563       2,528,395       3,088,369
long-terml. debt                                                470,240          577,137        935,553       1,171,325       1,736,796       2,334,302       2,886,659       3,?16,681
Less current portion                                              37 199          60 962         42 147          79,356           96 448         121,3'72         47,322         156,438
Net long-term debt                                            433,01           5165:)75            0        1               1               2,212,930        2,739,337
Current and other liabilities:
Current portion of Thng-term debt                               37,199          60,962         42,1i.47        79,356           96,448         121,372         147,322         156,438
Accounts payable                                                 9,092          34,531          36,255         115,000          54,000          63,000          72,0(00         79,000
Security deposits                                                1,538           2,,(49          2,361          2,4'(0           25579           2,65,2          2,'797          2,870    D
Other current lisoi.I;ies                                       1,857           6,1t            6,582           8, oo          o(,ooo ll,()0()                13,000          14,000 CO
Other credits                                                   22_ 104         25,57____ 25,0()                                29,000                          2,29 O0  29000  29000 O  x
Total current and other                                      71,790           129,417        1:69, I')2,O2'                                  22,O,0'±       264,319          281,308   o e
Total liabilities and capital                               877aL     1,1      056,170       14           209                                                                          1-
(D



Annex 14
Page 10 of 13 pages
Assumptions Used in Financial Forecasts
Revenues
1.        ICE's level 2 forecasts (see annex 9) indicate future annual sales
growth of 8.6%, which is acceptable,
2.        To produce an annua1 rate of return of about 9% on a revalued
rate base, annual tariff increases as indicated on the income statement
will be necessary, assuming the annual inflation rates indicated in para-
graph 3.05 of the text. It has been assumed that average retail tariffs
ill be 20% higher than average bulk tariffs, which approximately corre-
sponds to recent history.
3.        It should be noted that the tariffs and revenues shown do not
include provisions for fuel costs. In Costa Rica, fuel costs are passed
on to consumers via surcharges which are revised every six months, but
both the cost of fuel and revenues received therefor are accounted for
separately, outside the ordinary revenue/expense accounts of the utility.
Expenses
4.        Annual depreciation rates in percent:
Fifth project                   3.29
Arenal                          2.50
All other property              2.94
5.        Number of employees and average salary by function (excludes
data on employees engaged in studies, engineering or construction):



Annex 14
Page 11 of 13 pages
Average 1974
salary in
thousands               Number of employees
F-nction                of colones    1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979
Power Section
Eydro generation:
Production                 27         120    122    123    131    159    166
CLerical                   33          12     12     13      14     17     18
Thermal generation:
Production                 23         137    116     99    114      62      62
Clerical                   36          15     13     11      11      6       6
Transmission:
Technincal                 20         140    154    169    186    205    226
Clerical                   25          14     15     17      18     21      23
Distribution:
Technical                  15        120    166    179    193    207    219
Clerical-                  25           9     15     16      17     19      20
Administrative:
Production                 28          56     58     61      67     70      74
Distribution               25          69     74     80      86     92     99
Finance/Administration
Section
Professional               50          49     50      51     52     53      54
Clerical                   25        450    461    473    484    495    508
Technical                  15         338    347    355    364    372    382
Total                                 837    85           900       2      94
6.        The assumed local annual inflation rate (paragraph 3.05  of the text)
was applied to all expenses except depreciation.
Methods of valuation
7.        Until 1974, all ICE's assets and liabilities were carried in its
books of account using historical cost values. In 1974, assets and foreign
indebtedness were revalued to give effect to the unification of the colon's
exchange rate, which was an effective devaluation of about 29% for ICE.  Fur-.
ther revaluation of both ICE's fixed assets and foreign debt is discussed in
paragraphs 6.04-07 of the text. Based on preliminary analyses made by the Bank
and ICE's staff during field appraisal, projections incLuded in this report
assume that ICE's electric rate base would be increased by about 50% at Decem-
ber 31, 1974 to reflect local and worldwide inflation to that date, and its
indebtedness to the Bank by about 15% to reflect worldwide currency fluctua-
tions.
8.        As indicated in paragraph 6.06 of the text, the revaluation calcu-
lations completed in April 1975 increase the value of ICE's electric rate
base by 48%. As shown below, the April 1975 calcuilations are not sufficiently
different from those included in the projections to warrant changing the
projections.



Annex 14
Page 12 of 13 pages
As of December 31, 1974
(in millions of colones)
April 1975          Previous calculations
calculations       (page 9 of this annex)
Utility plant in service                1,535                     1,513
Accumulated depreciation                  289                       227
Net plant in service                  1,26                      1,26
9.        Beginning in 1975, annual revaluations of net fixed asset balances
(including construction work in progress and studies) are assumed at the
local inflation rates shown in paragraph 3.05 of the text and annual re-
valuation of foreign debt are assumed at the difference between local and
worldwide inflation rates shown in the same paragraph. The difference be-
tween the asset and debt revaluations is credited to equity as below:
Revaluation in millions of colones
Net fixed     Foreign
assets        debt        Equity
1975                        338           106          232
1976                        399           102          297
1977                        439           109          330
1978                        596           150          446
1979                        370            53          317
LIong-term indebtedness
10.       The terms of recently-contracted and expected long-term debt follow:
Date of                       Annual        Term of loan in years
Source       loan          Amount          interest %    Total      Grace
IBRD         1975    US$41 million            8.5           25             4
IDB          1975    us$50.5 million          8             30             6
CABEI        1975    US$ 8.1 million          8             15             4
FIV           1975      0380 million           8            25             4
Local       Annual   0150 million/year       12             20             -
(030 million/year)
Bank of
America    1974   Ub$5 million                          .8               1
Chase
Manhattan  1974    US$5 million                            8             3
Chemical
Bank       1974    US$10 million            *              8             1
Dillon,
Read       1975    US$10 million            *             10             3
* 1.5 to 1.75 percentage points above LIBO



Annex 14
Page 13 of 13 pages
Investment program
11.       The construction program excludes the Boraca hydro development
(annex 5) and the rural electrification program (paragraph 2.08 of the
text) because separate funding would be established for the Boruca pro-
ject and most of the rural program, and because the latter would incorpo-
rate additions to the systems of various cooperatives as well as ICE's.
12.       Assumed dates of transfer of works from construction work in
progress to plant in service:
-    Fifth project - 50% in 1977, 50% in 1978
-    Arenal - 1979
-    Minor works - annually
13.       Increases in working capital were estimated by establishing the
following year-end relationships, based on analyses of actual data:
-    Accounts receivable - 12% annual revenues, representing 1Ω- months'
sales
-    Materials and supplies (except materials in transit) - 3 to 3.5%
of gross value of plant in service until completion of Arenal,
2% thereafter.
May 1975



ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 6 pages
APPRAISAL OF FIFTH POWER PROJECT - COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD (ICE)
CNFL Financial Statements and Forecasts
1.        This annex includes the following financial statements and fore-
casts for CNFL for 1972-79:
a.   key financial ratios - page 4
b.   income statements - page 5
c.   forecast funds statements - page 6.
2.        CiNFL had satisfactory operating results, with nominal rates of
return of  bout 10%, until 197h.  Revaluation of rats base to reflect local
pr,ice inflation would have decreased its 1972-73 eamings levels somewhat,
but not to seriously low levels. Contirnued inflation reduced CNFL's rate
of return to unacceptably low levels (6% on an original-cost base and 4.7%
on a rate base reflecting an assumed 50% revaluation at year-end) in 1974.
During 1974, SNE permitted CNFL to put into effect tariff increases sufficiently
high to pass on the increased cost of electricity purchased from ICE, but not
high enough to offset the impact of inflation on its own expenses.  To remedy
this situation, CNFL applied for and received tariff adjustments to increase
its revenues by 10% beginning January 1975 and a further 5% beginning June 1975.
GiNFL rate determination
3.        The financial arrangements for the acquisition of CNFL by ICE were
detailed in the third power project appraisal report (no. PU-14a, June 11, 1969).
Briefly, they provide that CNFL's revenues are to be sufficient to: cover
operating costs and debt service; make payments to ICE enabling it to service
the debt incurred for CNFL's acquisition; and carry out necessary investments
in CNFL's distribution networks. In practice, CNFL has obtained loans from
CABEI and suppliers for the foreign cost of its investment program, financing
the local porton internally. Existing loan agreements between ICE and the
Bank provide that ICE should take all steps necessary to obtain such adjustments
in CNFL's power tariffs to provide sufficient revenues for CNFL in accordance
with provisions of Article 16 of its concession agreement, as summarized above.
4.        Assuming that CNFL continues its present financing practice
(paragraph 3), it will have to earn relatively high returns (12% - 13% on a
revalued rate base, t'r comply with the requiremBnts during 1975-76, when its
expansion program is relatively large.  During loan negotiations, the Bank
suggested the possibility of substituting rate-of-return provisions for CNFL
which are similar to ICE's, but ICE representatives maintained that the
problems associated with changing the concession agreement would outweigh the
advantages to be gained.



ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 6 pages
Revaluation and financial forecasts
5.        Regardless of the mechanism used for setting power tariffs, CNFL's
rate base should be revalued to reflect severe price inflation in Costa Rica
(see paragraph 6.o0  ff. of the text); completion of such revaluation is
proposed as a condition of loan effectiveness (see paragraph 6.07 of the
text).  It is assumed in the financial projections included in this annex
that: revaluation to increase the value of CNFL's fixed assets, accumulated
depreciation and work in progress balances will be made in a manner consistent
with that of ICE's power assets and will at least reflect the local price
inflation foreseen in paragraph 3.05 of the text; and 5NFL's rates will be
set to enable it to pay for the local cost of its investment program, including
additions to working capital (see paragraph 4). Based on the above, CNFL's
average tariffs for the period 1975-79 would be almost identical to ICE's
average retail tariffs.
6.        With revaluation and tariff action as described above, CNFL's
financial performance would be satisfactory for the forrf.ast period: its
rate of return would equal or exceed 9% (except in 1979, when it would be
slightly below that level), and its debt service coverage would exceed
two times.
Construction program and financing plan
7.        CNFL's construction progran is basica'Lly a continuing series of
investments in relatively small distribution works. For its own analysis,
it breaks the program down by source of financing. Its current program
includes: existing projeets financed by CABEI and suppliers, which are to
be substantially completed by 1975; and the next expansion program (1976-78),
part of which is included as a portion of the fifth project (see annex 7).
It plans to seek CABEI financing for the foreign cost of the next expansion
program not included in the fifth project.
8.        During the four-year project period, CNFL would pay for over 60%
of its construction program and working capital additions with net internal
generation of funds plus contributions. This contribution-to-expansion ratio
is at the high end of the range normally expected for distribution companies.
However, the combined ICE/CNFL contribution ratio is only 24%, which is at
the low end of the acceptable range for full-spectrum electric utilities.
The financing plan is summarized below and detailed in page 3 of this annex.



Annex 15
Page 3 of 6 pages
Financing plan 1975-78
- - - millions - - -
Colones          us$            %
Requirements of funds
Construction program:
Existing project                          47.4          4.9
Proposed expansion                       135.9         11.6
Total construction                      183.3         16.5           89
Increase in working capital                 21.9           1.9          11
Total requirements                      205.2          18.4         100
Sources of funds
Net income before interest plus
depreciation                             183.9        16.8
Less service payments                       73.5          6.8
Net internal generation                  110.4         10.0            54
Contributions                               16.6          1.5            8
Borrowings:
Existing loans                             6.4          0.7
Proposed ICE loan (IBRD proceeds)          2.9             0
Future CABEI loan                         4.9           42
Total borrowings                      _7__7 __79                    38
Total sources                          205.2         18.4          100



CNFL Key Financial Ratios 1972-79
(amounts expressed in millions of colones)
Actual           Estimated                           Forecast
1972        1973        1974        1975         1976        1977        1978         1979
Return on net plant
Average net utility plant in operation       104.7       110.0       127.2       178.9        240.2       306.5       389.6        476.8
Operating income                             10.2          9.9         5.9         23.8        28.5        30.2         37.7        41.0
Percentage return                            10.3          9.3         4.7         13.3        11.9         9.9          9.7         8.6
Debt
Times debt service covered by internal         1.'7        1.8         1.1          2.9         3.4         3.8          3.8         2.4
cash generation
Depreciation
As a percentage of average gross               2.11        2.24        2.47         3.33        3.33        3.33         3.33        3.33
utility plant
CD X
0
G\
Id
(D



CNFL Income Statements 1972-79
(in thousands of colones)
Actual            Estimated                                  Forecast,
1972          1973          1974          1975          1976           1977           1978           1979
Energy sales in GWh                             635.0         675.1         748.4         813.7         884.0           960.3        1,042.7        1,132.3
Average price per kWb - in colones                  .133          .134          .169          .257          .307           .349            .406           .493
Revenues:
From energy sales                          84,457        90,319       126,457       209,425       271,495        335,224         423,816        558,560
Other operating                               173           177           232           243           256             269            282            296
Total operating revenues                 84,630          90,496     126,689       209W          271,751        335,493        424,098         555,M6
Operating expenses:
Energy purchases                           56,918        62,352        96,329       151,137       197,479        248,164         315,528        432,680
Generation                                  3,144         3,o40         3,657         4,126         5,128          6,140           7,235          8,309
Transmission and distribution               4,197         4,731         5,812         7,014         9,241         11,525          14,387         17,489
Customer-related                            4,163         4,692         6,581         7,823        10,230         12,892         16,214          19,578
Administrative                              2,859         2,276         3,405         5,274         7,356          9,159          11,190         13,346      Id
Insurance                                      56            59            60            86           111            138             172            210     i
Taxes                                       1,077         1,108         1,100         1,196         1,386          1,554           1,720          1,862
Depreciation                                3 344         3 585         3 825         9 176        12 288         15,697          19 879         24,366
Total operating expenses                 L5,10                                                  243,219                                       517,40∞
Operating income                          8,872         8,653         5,920        23,836        28,532          30,224         37,773         41,016



CNFL Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds 1975-79
(in thousands of colones)
Total
1975           1976            1977           1978          1975- 78           1979
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal generation of cash:
Operating income                                  23,836          28,532          30,224         37,773          120,365          41,016
Depreciation                                        9,176         12,288          15,697         19,879           57,040          24,366
Other income and bond repayment                    1 632           1 632           1 632          1 1                527           1 632
Total                                                           47,53                          59FU3           183,932
Less - service payments
Amortization                                     6,052           6,535           6,970          9,641           29,198          15,029
Interest charged to operations                   5,838           6,128           5,592          5,893           23,451         12,683
Dividends                                         5,208            208           5 208          5 208           20,832           5 208
Total service payments                         17,095                            7O
Net internal cash generation                     17,546         24,581          29,783         38,541          110,451          34,094
Borrowings:
Existing loans - CABEI                              6,o49           -               -              -               6,049            -
- Suppliers                           310           -               -               -                310            -
Proposed loans - ICE (IBRD proceeds)                 -             7,669           5,106         10,165           22,940            -
- CABEI                              -             10,751         17,138          20,979           48;868           -
Total borrowings                                  6,359         18,420          22,244          31,144          78,167            -
Contributions and deposits:
Contributions                                       3,326          2,300           2,850          3,100           11,576           3,377
Security deposits                                   1 013          1 165           1,340          1 541            5,059           1,772
4__195                         16,635____        ,14
Total contributions and deposits                   339           3,45            14,190         4___1                           ____51
Total sources                                    28,244         46,466          56,217          74,326         205,253          39,243
APPLICATIONS OF BENDS
Construction program:
Existing projects                                  30,0o43         7,846           9,550            -             47,439            -
Proposed expansion                                   -            27,566          41,378         66,984          135,928            -
Future works                                         -              -               -                               -             23,000
Total constrIucJt. on                            30,043         35,412          502 9          G6,4            18,7367          23,000  
Increase in vorking capital:                              6           ,
Cash (A)                                            5,686          6,219         -   329              83              945            615 0
Other than cash                                     3,887           4,835         _4,960           7,259          20 941          15 628    8
To-tal working capital increase               -  1,799         11,054           5,289           7,3142         21,806         1______
Total sources                                    28,244         46,-6           56,217          714326         205,253          39,243
(A) Includes ¢6,oo0  short-term debt in 1975 to be repaid in 1976.
March 1975
Revised May 1975



ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 6 pages
APPRAISAL OF FIFTH POWER PROJECT - COSTA RICA
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD (ICE)
Telecommunications Section Financial Statements
and Forecasts
1.        This annex includes the following financial statements and fore-
casts for ICE's telecormunications section for 1972-79:
a.  key financial ratios - page 4
b. income statements - page 5
c. forecast funds statements - page 6
Earnings record and financial position
2.        The telecommunications section had highly satisfactory operating
results, with rates of return of 12% to 15%, in the early 1970s. Its high
earnings and Bank loans financed most of its large construction program,
which approximately doubled its investment in plant in the most recent
five-year period.
Asset revaluation and tariff increases
3.        During the appraisa,l of ICE's fourth telecommunications project
(Report no. 417a-CR, May 21, 1974), it was recognized that a significant tariff
increase - about 50% effective in January 1975 - would be necessary to offset
Costa Rican inflation, continue earning the 12% rate of return stipulated in
Bank loan agreements on a fully revalued rate base, and pay for a reasonable
portion of ICE's telecommunications expansion program.
4.        As explained in paragraphs 6.04-05 of the text, ICE did not revalue
its telecommunications assets by October 1, 1974 as it had agreed to. While
ICE applied to SNE for a 50% tariff increase in September 1974, its basis for
seeking this increase was solely the need to generate sufficient funds to
finance a large part of its expansion program. In December SNE released its
findings, which permitted tariff increases sufficient to increase ICE's
telecommunications revenues by about 30%. ICE filed in January 1975 a second
request for the total rate increase which it originally sought on the same
contribution-to-expansion basis. SNE's review of the second filing is not complete.
5.        ICE has completed the revaluation of its telecommunications rate base,
which resulted in a 42% increase in its value, and has applied to SNE for prompt
implementation of the entire 50% tariff increase previously requested to earn
12% on the revalued rate base. Effectiveness of such tariff action is a proposed
con(lition of loan effectiveness. Assuming that future revaluatior and tariff
increases are put into effect reasonably promptly, the financial results of ICE's
telecommunications operations are expected to be satisfactory, as shown in the
performance indicators.



Annex 16
Page 2 of 6 pages
Construction program and financing plan
6.        To satisfy the increasing demand for new service and relieve
congestion in existing facilities, ICE has advanced its expansion plans.
ICE now plans to conplete its Stage IV plan (the first half of which, called
Stage IVA, is being partially financed by loan 1006-CR) by 1979, instead of
1980, as indicated in the above   appraisal report.  Moreover, it plans to
begin Stage V in 1979, two years earlier than previously foreseen.
7.        ICE's telecommunications expansion plans are being reviewed by the
government. While no official decision has been made, there are indications
(e.g., SNE's decision to give ICE only about two-thirds the tariff increase
it had sought) that the government would not look with favor on the accelera-
ted expansion program foreseen by ICE.
8.        As summarized below and detailed on page 3 of this annex, ICE's
net internal cash generation plus customer contributions would pay for 30%
of its 1975-78 telecommunications expansion program.  This ratio is lower
than that previously foreseen; the reasons for it are ICE's more ambitious
expansion plans and higher local inflation.



Annex 16
Page 3 of 6 pages
Financing Plan 1975-78
- - - millions - - -
Colones          US$         _
Requirements of funds
Construction program
Stage III                               133.9          14.5
Stage IV                               925,6           84.2
Other                                  121.4          11.6
Interest during construction            71.8           6.6
Total construction                     1,252.7          116.9         89
Acquisition of fixed assets                 19.8            1.7          1
Increase in working capital                133.4           12.2          9
Total requirements                     1,4o5.9          130.8        100
Sources of funds
Net income before interest plus
depreciation                            649.1          57.9
Less service payments                   -35o.o          -31.3
Net internal generation                299.1           26.6         21
Borrowings:
Existing loans                           382.8           37.9
Proposed loans (suppliers)                50.2            5.1
Future loans                             555.2           5o.2
Total borrowings                       908.2           93.2         70
Other sources                            118.6           11.0          9
Total sources                          1,4o5.9          130.8        100
9.        The above financing plan includes under future loans a fifth Bank
loan, currently scheduled for FY78, which ICE might seek to advance.  The
remaining future borrowings are undetermined; presumably, they would include
supplier financing and local borrowing,



ICE Telecommunications Section
Key Financial Ratios 1972-79
(amounts expressed in millions of colones)
Actual          Estimated                              Forecast
1972        1973        19714        1975        1976         1977          1978          1979-
Return on net plant
Average net utility plant in operation        144.0        190.1       268.4        522.5       680.2       979.8        1,501.5      1,887.5
Operating income                               22.2         24.2        40.9        62.7         81.6       117.6          180.2        226.5
Percentage                                     15.9         12.7        15.2        12.0         12.0        12.0           12.0         12.0
Debt
Times debt service covered by internal
cash generation         2.2          2.1         1.5          2.1         1.6          1.9           1.9           1.9
Depreciation                                                                                                                                        CD
As a percentage of average gross
utility plant                14.1        3.9          3.9         3.8         4.o          4.2            4.3          4.7  e
ok
v0
Vt



ICE Telecommunications Section
Income Statements 1972-79
(in thousands of colones)
-----Actual-------            --Unaudited_-           -------------------------Forecast---------------------------
1972          1973                1974                197(5          1976          1977           1978           1979
Operating Revenues                                       63,840         81,218            117,387             193,264        296,342        471,844       685,128        885,621
Operating Expenses
Personnel-related costs                               13,864        18,812              21,384              40,418         76,072       114,931        158,308        182,948
Depreciation                                           7,928          9,474             17,003              25,051         35,081         52,676        81,oo6        113,422
Materials                                              1,886          2,754              3,338               6,584         10,819         16,090        22,249         28,639
Institutional costs                                    5,374         8,192              10,287              12,103         13,014        37,397         49,283         68,222
Travelling, energy, publicity, regulatory              9,51414       13,328             12,297               20,753        33,212         47,438        62,089         79,594
Participation expenses                                   _              -                 9,444             20,425         37,891         72,919       114,2114       163,261
Other                                                  3,023          4,501              2,689               5,227          8,634         12,813        17,799         23,036
Total operating expenses                                                                ,617,061 7,442     130,561        214,723        354,264       504,948        659,122
Operating Earnings                                       22,221         24,157              40,945              62,703        81,619        117,580        180,180       226,499
Interest paid                                         10,269        15,279              19,477              37,973         65,513         68,525        96,188        113,554
Less: interest charged to construction                 1 981          4 869              9 149              16 029         17 346         14 463        23,949         17,835
Interest expense                                       8___ 288_ lo'2 4,9_ 54 062                                                                       72 239         95 719
Earnings before other income                          13,933                            30,617              49,759         33,452
Rental of equipment to RACSA                             -              -                 3,128               3,519         4,301            -              -
Dividends received                                     1,765          2,345               1,291              2,783          4,694          4,226            -
Other income                                             416            288                 -                   -             -              -              _
Total other income                                  2,181         2,633               4,419               6,302          8,995          4,226          _
Net Income                                         16 114        16,380              35,036               47,061        42,447         67,744       107,9441       130,780
n0 O
FboH
a'



ICE Telecommunications Section
Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds Statements
(in thousands of aolones)
1975               1976                1977                1978                1979
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal cash generation:
Net income before interest                                     69,005              90,614             121,806             180,180             226,499
Depreciation                                                   25 051              35 081              52,676              81 oo6             113,422
Total                                                                                5174,482                                              339,921
Debt service
Amortization                                                20,564              30,379              39,782              62,854              80,973
Interest not capitalized                                    21 944              48 167              54,062              72,239              95,719
Total debt service                                      _7_ 7,54693,844                                             135,093
Net internal cash generation                             51,548              47,149              80,638             126,093             163,229
Borrowings:
Existing loans - IBRD 801-CE                                   56,560               9,570                 129                -                   -
IBRD 1006-CR (Stage TV A)                    57,494             119,115              88,809                -                   -
CABEI 237                                    16 226              26,826               88                   -                   -
Total existing loans                                                              155,511                                    -                   -
Proposed loans:  suppliers                                        25,910              13,373              10,957                -                   -
Future loans:  CABEI                                                -                   -                   -                  3,330                 503
IBRD (Stage IV B)                                    _-                                      -               130,901             132,436
Other                                              90,000             146 ooo              95,000              go9000             90,000
Total future loans                                             90,000                 M95,000                             24,231              222,939
Total Loans                                                246,190             314,884             202,953             224,231             222,939
Other Sources
Connection fees                                                24,600              14,724              15,696              18,807              22,559
Security deposits                                               4,686               2,765               2,948               3,562               4,235
Miscellaneous contributions                                       675                 894               1,129               1,391               1,666
Capital contributions from RACSA concession  expiration          -                   -                 26_606                -                   -
Total other sources                                         29,961              18,383              46,37               23,760              28,460
Total Sources of Funds                                     Zp7,699             380,416             329,970             374,084             4146
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Construction program
Completion of Stage III                                    116,347              17,243                 267                -                   _
Stage IV                                                   137,932             260,279             231,149             296,243             285,370
Stage V                                                       _                   _                                       -                 33,860
Other                                                       29,565              49,818              24,196              17,791              14,921
Interest during construction                                16,029              17,346              14,463              23,                 17,835
Total construction program                              299,873             344,686             270,075             337,983             351,986
Acquisition of RACSA net fixed assets                         -                   -                 19,834                -                   -
Additions (withdrawals) of working capital
other than cash                                          19,125              33,550              39,345              38,942              62,490
Cash                                                      8,701               2,18                  716              (2,841)                152
Total working capital additions                           27,826             35,730              40,061              36,lol              62,642
Total Applications of Funds                             327,699             380,416             329,970             37
May 1975



IBRD-I11454
S53  8hS  401  a   < A RA i. ( i tl MARCH 1975
Gulf  of                            LOne                                                                                                                                                                            .                                        N.
Popoagayo                             N                                                                         =S&                                                                                                                                                                           Sea
_1130'                                           _                                                                                                                                                                                              ,1C0
A~~
_ _ _   R R  TIlaRln                                                                                                            , i:.; S t t1  ;   ,   tj          Are: Co v e ri d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A-Co .. 
aR  ada,ao, M.,   d
-'.   - ----a                                                                            a \  a =t ,f ow    s tOe
/~ ~ ~~~~~~~o   Ni.y ;.\\cudaooX                                                                                                                                                           t -'> 20;    ., tw : i    r                   (t7 *  
Pacific   Ocean                                                     -
9030'                      EXISTING POWER FACILITIES            PROPOSED PROJECT                       FUITURE 
11D IV T.-.- U1.  1() k1 I-- W- Li  -     11. IVnt-W.j.COSTA                                                                                            RICA
___138 kV Tnos,-W.,o Line            138EkV TtmianLi-s             -    I38 kV Tns-Im'Wa LiU-scrrIr' rlrnlr-5 8                                                                                             -r rrrIIu
-       4S5kV T-enisAla Lines    --  345Tt.sm.si.  Line 0Uubttin                                                                                      INSTIITUTO           COSIARRICEINSE   LDE   ELECTRICIDADML~ 
t ~ ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                               PAINAM_
*    OubsIeslans             0    Subsosuans                   U    Had, roP-e, Pi..n                                                                                 INTERCONNECTED    SYSTEM                                                     PANAMA
. Hdlo∞ Po-  PIn-                U     H,da Pafs, Plat-
A    TVs,ne Paus, PlaIs          A    Ths-Is Paws Pleats                4neoSnlRanlOs'
?  t Garsk M7u"> OMEERO                                                    YS 
85500 30                                                                                                                                                                30'



