7S'X
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1126 CR
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD
DATED JUNE 16, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1126 CR
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD
DATED JUNE 16, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD (hereinafter called the
Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of part of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower intends (i) to obtain, from Banco Centroamericano de
Integracion Econ6mica, financial assistance for the balance of the foreign exchange
cost of the Project, and (ii) to finance the other expenditures of the Project out
of its own resources which it expects to supplement with the proceeds of public
and private borrowings;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Colones" and the sign "C/" means colones in the currency of the
Guarantor.


﻿4
(b)   "Prior Loan Agreements" means the Loan Agreement (Rio Macho
Hydroelectric Project) dated February 3, 1961, the Loan Agreement (Power and
Telecommunication Project) dated July 10, 1963, the Loan Agreement (Second
Telecommunications Project) dated July 10, 1969, the Loan Agreement (Third
Power Project) dated July 10, 1969, the Loan Agreement (Fourth Power Project)
dated February 24, 1972, the Loan Agreement (Third Telecommunications Project)
dated February 24, 1972, and the Loan Agreement (Fourth Telecommunications
Project) dated June 14, 1974, all between the Bank and the Borrower, as said
agreements may be amended from time to time.
(c)   "1974   Agreement"   means    the  Loan   Agreement   (Fourth
Telecommunications Project) dated June 14, 1974 between the Bank and the
Borrower, as said agreement may be amended from time to time.
(d)   "Power Assets" means all electric power generating facilities,
substations, transmission lines, distribution facilities, and related facilities and assets
owned by the Borrower.
(e)   "Power Functions" means the management and operation by the
Borrower of the Power Assets.
(f)   "Power Section" means the organizational divisions or subdivisions of
the Borrower performing the Power Functions.
(g)   "Telecommunications Assets" means all telephone, telegraph, telex,
data and television transmission installations and related facilities and assets owned
by the Borrower.
(h)   "Telecommunications Functions"   means the   management and
operation by the Borrower of the Telecommunications Assets.
(i)   "Telecommunications Section" means the organizational divisions or
subdivisions of the Borrower performing the Telecommunications Functions.
(j)   " CNFL" means Compani'a Nacional de Fuerza y Luz Sociedad
An6nima, a sociedad andnima created and existing under the laws of the Guarantor,
of which the Borrower acquired the majority of the shares (92.3%) as authorized
by Ley No. 4197 dated September 20, 1968 of the Guarantor.
(k)   "Decree Law No. 449" means Decreto Ley No. 449 of the Guarantor
establishing the Borrower, dated April 8, 1949, and shall include any amendments
thereof in effect at the date of this Loan Agreement.


﻿5
(1) "Concession Agreement" means Contrato ElMctrico, Ley No. 2,
establishing the rights and duties of CNFL, dated April 8, 1941, as modified by
Ley No. 4197, dated September 20, 1968, of the Guarantor.
(in)  "BCIE" means Banco Centroamericano de Integraci6n Econrnica.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty-one million dollars ($41,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and in respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b)   On or before each of the semi-annual interest payment dates specified
in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay,
on such date, interest and other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on
or before the date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such schedule may be amended from time to time.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿6
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
April 1 and October I in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if the Borrower shall
repay in advance of maturity any part of the loan referred to in Section 6.01(c)
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall simultaneously repay a proportionate amount
of the Loan then outstanding. All the provisions of the General Conditions relating
to repayment in advance of maturity shall be applicable to any repayment by
the Borrower in accordance with this Section.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) For the carrying out of the study referred to in Part C(1)
of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(i)         within one month from the Effective Date, furnish to the Bank
for its approval the proposed terms of reference;
(ii)        within six months from the date of the approval in (i) above,
or such other later date as shall be agreed with the
Bank, employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and
(iii)       promptly after the conclusion of such study, exchange views
with the Bank and the Servicio Nacional de Electricidad of the
Guarantor on the recommendations made by the consultants.
(b)   For the carrying out of the studies referred to in Part C(2)(3) of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ or continue to employ consultants whose


﻿7
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents andd work
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c)
of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all
plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of the Borrower
and any relevant records and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land, and rights in respect of land as
shall be required for the construction and operation of the facilities included in
the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures, satisfactory
to the Bank, to ensure that the Project is carried out with due regard to ecological
and environmental factors.


﻿8
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain
its financial position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all
in accordance with appropriate business, financial and public utility practices and
under the supervision of experienced and competent management, assisted by
qualified staff.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall operate and maintain its plants, equipment
and property, and from time to time make all necessary renewals and repairs
thereof, all in accordance with appropriate engineering standards.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times maintain its existence and right
to carry on operations and shall, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take
all steps necessary to maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not sell or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets which shall be required
for the efficient carrying on of its business and undertaking, including the Project,
unless the Borrower shall first pay, or make adequate provisions satisfactory to
the Bank for payment of, all of the Loan which shall then be outstanding and
unpaid, provided, however, that the Borrower may sell or otherwise dispose of
any of its property which shall have become obsolete, worn out or unnecessary
for use in its operations.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall continue to operate each of its Power and Telecommunications
Sections separately, and shall for each of such Sections: (a) maintain separate
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of the Borrower and


﻿9
of each such Section; and (b) prepare separate financial statements (balance sheet,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) of the Borrower and
of each such Section in accordance with generally accepted accounting practices
consistently applied.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and the financial
statements referred to in Section 5.01(b) hereof for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
in any case not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt except as otherwise
currently reported or stated in writing to the Bank.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any of its assets as security
for any debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the Bank; and
(ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower as security
for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent
lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the
time of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree:
(a)   The Borrower shall not directly or indirectly incur for the Power
Section any long-term debt, unless the net revenues of the Power Section for the
fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended
prior to such incurrence, whichever shall have been the greater, shall be not less


﻿10
than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements for ,any succeeding fiscal
year on all long-term debt incurred for the Power Section (including the debt to
be incurred). For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the term "long-term debt" means any debt maturing by its terms
more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred, including any debt represented by bonds;
(ii)        debt shall be deemed to be incurred (1) under a loan contract
or agreement, on the date the loan contract or agreement
providing for such debt is entered into, and (2) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee is entered into;
(iii)       the term  "net revenues" means gross revenues from all sources
adjusted to take account of power tariffs in effect at the time
of the calculation even though they were not in effect during
the twelve consecutive months to which such revenues related,
less operating and administrative expenses, including provision
of taxes, if any, but before provision for depreciation and
interest and other charges on debt;
(iv)        the term   "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund contributions,
if any), interest and other charges on debt; and
(v)         whenever it shall be necessary to value in colones debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the rate of exchange at which such other currency is
obtainable by the Borrower, at the time such valuation is made,
for the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such other currency
is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be
reasonably determined by the Bank.
(b)   The requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section shall apply
mutatis mutandis to the incurrence by CNFL of any long-term debt and the
Borrower shall cause CNFL to comply with the provisions of this paragraph (b)
as if they were binding on CNFL.
(c)   The Borrower shall not sell, and shall not permit CNFL to sell, any
bonds which are subject to agreements committing the Borrower, or CNFL, to
repurchase such bonds before their maturity date, if at the time or as a result


﻿11
thereof, the aggregate principal amount of bonds subject to such repurchase
agreements then outstanding shall exceed an amount equal to thirty per cent (30%)
of the aggregate principal amount of all bonds of the Borrower and CNFL, then
outstanding.
Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall from time to time take all steps necessary or desirable to obtain such
adjustments in its power tariffs as will provide sufficient revenues for the Power
Section to produce an annual rate of return of not less than 9%.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the annual rate of return shall be calculated in respect of each
fiscal year by relating net income for that year to the average
of the net value of fixed assets in operation at the beginning
and end of that year;
(ii)         the term   "net income" means all power revenues, except
dividend and interest income from      CNFL    and from   other
long-term  investments, less all operating expenses;
(iii)       the term    "operating   expenses" includes: direct costs of
operattor, administration, overhead and adequate maintenance
expenses; straight-line depreciation based on the useful life of
assets; taxes (if any); but does not include interest and other
charges on debt; and
(iv)        the term "net value of fixed assets in operation" means the gross
value of fixed assets in operation less thu accumulated
depreciation, all as revalued in accordance with Section 5.08 of
this Agreement.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall from time to time take or cause to be
taken all steps necessary or desirable to obtain such adjustments in CNFL's power
tariffs as will provide sufficient revenues for CNFL, in accordance with the
provisions of Article 16 of the Concession Agreement.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower:
(a)   shall not (i) reduce its capital and reserves, (ii) declare or pay any
dividends, or make any other distribution on its capital, or (iii) make any investment
not directly related to power or telecommunications services; and


﻿12
(b)   shall not permit CNFL to: (i) reduce its capital and reserves, (ii) declare
or pay any dividends over and above the margins allowed by the Concession
Agreement, or make any other distribution on its capital, or (iii) make any
investment not directly related to power services.
Section 5.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a)   The Borrower shall: (i) revalue, and cause CNFL to revalue, its assets,
annually, to such extent as shall be necessary to reflect adequately, at the time
of each such revaluation, the current value thereof, in accordance with a sound
and consistently applied method of revaluation acceptable to the Bank; and (ii)
register, and cause CNFL to register, annually, the result of such revaluation on
its books.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) value, and cause CNFL to value, in colones,
at the end of each fiscal year, debts payable in other currencies, on the basis
of the rates of exchange at which such other currencies are obtainable by the
Borrower, at the time such valuation is made, for the purpose of servicing such
debts; and (ii) register, and cause CNFL to register, annually, the result of such
valuation on its books.
Section 5.09. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1976, or such later date
as shall be agreed with the Bank, prepare a program, satisfactory to the Bahk,
for electric energy conservation.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a)   The security constituted by the mortgages provided for in any of the
Prior Loan Agreements, shall become enforceable.
(b)   Any provision of Decree Law No. 449 or the Concession Agreement
shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated so as to affect adversely the
performance by the Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall have failed to obtain from BCEI, or from other
external sources on terms acceptable to the Bank, a loan of at least $11,000,000
for assisting in the financing of the Project, and to fulfill all conditions precedent
to its effectiveness by June 30, 1976.


﻿13
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   Any event specified in Section 6.01(a) or (b) of this Agreement shall
occur.
(b)   The loan referred to in Section 6.01(c) of this Agreement shall have
become due and payable before its agreed maturity in accordance with the terms
thereof.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   The Borrower has put into effect power and telecommunications tariffs
at levels necessary to provide sufficient revenues for the Power and
Telecommunications Sections to produce the annual rates of return specified in
Section 5.05 of this Agreement and Section 5.05 of the 1974 Agreement.
(b)   CNFL has revalued its assets to the satisfaction of the Bank.
(c)   The loan referred to in Section 6.01(c) of this Agreement has been
approved by the corresponding lending institution.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that all of the action
to be taken pursuant to Section 7.01 of this Agreement has been duly and validly
taken.
Section 7.03. The date October 16, 1975, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿14
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad
Apartado 10032
San Jos6
Costa Rica
Cable address:
ICE
San Jos6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD
By /s/ Rodolfo Silva
Authorized Representative


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Supply and instal-            28,600,000         100% of foreign
lation of project                                expenditures or
works and acquisi-                               95% of the ex-
tion of equipment                                factory cost of
and materials                                   locally produced
goods
(2)  Consultants' ser-               200,000          100% of foreign
vices                                            expenditures
(3)  Interest and other             6,500,000         Amounts due
charges on the Loan
accrued on or be-
fore September 30,
1978
(4)  Unallocated                    5,700,000
TOTAL        41,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of a country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods


﻿16
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of: (i) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made on account of expenditures incurred after January 1,
1975 for hydraulic generating units and related substation equipment included in
Part A(1)(2) of the Project in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $1,500,000; and (ii) any contract or order for equipment or materials for the
Project in an amount less than $5,000 equivalent.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's 1975-1978 expansion program to meet
forecast demand for electric power. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:     Generation Facilities
(1)   Addition  of one 30 MW      unit to   the Borrower's Rio Macho
hydroelectric plant.
(2)   Addition of one 32 MW unit to the Borrower's Cachi hydroelectric
plant.
(3)   Construction of either (a) a diesel plant with 30 MW capacity at Moin
on the Caribbean Coast, including the installation of a fuel tank and
substation, or (b) the Costa Rican portion of an inter-connecting
transmission line with Nicaragua, and related substation equipment,
the choice between (a) and (b) above to be made by the Bank, not
later than October 1, 1975, after consultation with the Guarantor and
the Borrower.
(4)   Installation of a fuel tank at the Borrower's San Antonio generating
plant.
Part B:     Transmission Works
(1)   Installation of transmission lines and sub-stations for the Arenal
hydroelectric power plant to be constructed by the Borrower.
(2)   Additions to existing transmission lines and sub-stations for the
generating facilities included in Part A hereof.
(3)   Completion   of the   transmission  distribution  ring  around  the
metropolitan area of San Jos6, and related distribution equipment.
(4)   Installation of new transmission facilities to serve new or increased
loads outside San Jos6.
(5)   Installation of a load dispatching system.


﻿18
Part C:     Studies
(1)   Study of the electricity tariff structure in Costa Rica.
(2)   Study of the stability of the electric system in Costa Rica.
(3)   Study of the engineering aspects of Part B(5) hereof.
*           *           * i
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                  (expressed in dollars)*
October 1, 1979                                           365,000
April 1, 1980                                             385,000
October 1, 1980                                           395,000
April 1, 1981                                             420,000
October 1, 1981                                           430,0
April 1, 1982                                             455000
October 1, 1982                                           470,000
April 1, 1983                                             490,000
October 1, 1983                                           515,000
April 1, 1984                                             535,000
October 1, 1984                                           555,000
April 1, 1985                                             580,000
October 1, 1985                                           605,000
April 1, 1986                                             630,000
October 1, 1986                                           6601000
April 1, 1987                                             685,000
October 1, 1987                                           715,0
April 1, 1988                                             745,000
October 1, 1988                                           775,000
April 1, 1989                                             810,000
October 1, 1989                                           845,000
April 1, 1990                                             880,000
October 1 1990                                            920,0
April 1, f991                                             955,000
October 1, 1991                                           995,00
April 1, 1992                                           1,040,000
October 1, 1992                                          1,085,000
April 1, 1993                                           1,130,000
October 1, 1993                                         1,175,000
April 1, 1994                                           1,230,000
October 1, 1994                                         1,280,0
April 1, 1995                                           1,335,000
October 1, 1995                                         1,390,000
April 1, 1996                                           1,450,000
October 1, 1996                                         1,515,000
April 1, 1997                                           1,575,000
October 1, 1997                                         1,640,000
April 1, 1998                                           1,715,000
October 1, 1998                                         1,785,000
April 1, 1999                                           1,860,000
October 1, 1999                                         1,945,000
April 1 2000                                            2,035,000
*  To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿20
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
More than three years before
maturity                                          1%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity                          2-1/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                    4%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                          5-1/2%
More than sixteen years but
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity                          7-1/4%
More than twenty-one years
but not more than
twenty-three years
before maturity                                    8%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                                8-1/2%


﻿21
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
Contracts shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Manufacturers
Established in the Territories of the Central American Common Market
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c. and f. (port of
entry)   price   for   imported   goods,   or   the   ex-factory  price   for
domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on
imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.    Bids shall be compared in accordance with the following rules:
(a)   the term  "Central American Bid" means a bid submitted by a
manufacturer established in the territories of the Central Aiperican Common Market
for goods manufactured or processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably
determined by the Bank) in such territories; any other bid will be deemed to be
a "Non-Central American Bid";
(b)   the bid price under a Central American Bid will be the sum of the
following amounts:
(1)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)       freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such goods to
the site designated in the specifications; and
(c)   for the purpose of comparing any Non-Central American Bid with any
Central American Bid, the price under a Non-Central American Bid will be the
sum of the following amounts:


﻿22
(i)         the c. and f. (port of entry) price of such goods;
(ii)       insurance costs to the port of entry;
(iii)       half the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods
into the territories of the Guarantor which generally apply to
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amounts specified in (i)
and (ii) above, whichever shall be the lower; and
(iv)        freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such goods from
the port of entry to the site designated in the specifications.
3.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the margin of preference to
be granted.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    With respect to all contracts for goods and services estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first


﻿23
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


