Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
6Z.42-        l                    Z tReport No. .8244-SLU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
HARCH 8. 1990
Department III
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Reginn
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In ihe performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = East Caribbean Dollar
EC$1.00   US$0.37
US$1.00 = EC$2.70
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Imperial Gallon (IG) = 1.20095 US gallons
1 Imperial Gallon (IG) = 0.00455 cubic meters
Million Imperial Gallons = MIG
Million Imperial Gallons/Day - MIGD
1 MIGD = 0.0526 cubic meters/sec
1 foot (ft) = 0.3048 meters
1 mile = 1.6129 kilometers
1 acre = 0.4048 hectare
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDB   -  Caribbean Development Bank
CIDA  - Canadian International Development Agency
CPU   -  Central Planning Unit, Ministry of Planning,
Personnel, Establishment and Training
GOSL  - Government of St. Lucia
MPPET - Ministry of Planning, Personnel, Establishment
and Training
PMU   -  Project Management Unit
WASA  - Water and Sewerage Authority
UFW   - Unaccounted-for Water
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
I.  LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......... . . . . . . .   ...............  ..............  1
lI.  IHE SECTOR ...............................................................              3
The Setting .... o  .........................................................           3
Sector Organization and Institutions  .....                .....................  *..   4
Sector Investment, Performance and Constraints  ........... .........                   4
Government's Development Strategy in the Sector                     ..................  5
Rationale for Bank and IDA Involvement               .... .............6
III.        H   PROJECT .............. #.   .......................                          6
Project Origin ...................................................                      6
Project Objectives  .............. .. . .........   ...         ............. .         6
Project Setting ......  .....             ... .. ... 0 ............................     7
Project Description ... ....            ..........................................      8
Project Cost and Financing ...                   ...................... .    .......... .    10
The Borrower and Exec.ting Agency . 3 .....                        ; ........  .. ...............   12
Financial Performance and Prospects  ...                     ...................    14
Project Implementation Arrangements  .. ............................    18
Procurement ........... . . ................................................           20
Disbursement ...................---.---.-....-----          .       ..                 21
Progress Reporting, Evaluation and Monitoring ...... ..............   21
Operation and Maintenance ........................................    23
Environmental Impact .............................................                     23
Economic Benefits and Justification ..... . .                                          24
Risks ........... . . . . . .#.....................................                    26
IV.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .....                  ...............    27
This report is based on the findings of the                appraisal mission
which visited St. Lucia from May 2 to 27, 1989. The mission comprised of
Messrs. Roy Ramani (Team Leader/Engineer), Amnon Mates (Financial
Economist) and Lorne Swanson (Sewerage Consultant). Preparation of the
report was also assisted by Stanley Associates, Canada (CIDA consultants).
Mdmes Isabel Jaynes and Sylvia Delgado assisted in the production of the
report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page
ANNEXES
1. Existing Facilities ........................      ............   30
2. Project Area and Water Demand Fstimates ............. .......   36
3. Detailed Description (Part A of the Proje        je).   40
4. List of Equipment (Part B of the Project). .                         50
5. Technical Assistance Component (Part C of the Project) ........    51
6. Detailed Project Cost   .      ................................. . .55
7. Estimated Annual Phasing of Project Expenditures ..............        56
8. Institutional Review of WASA and Action Plan ..............  58
9. Financial Pe.formance              .     ... ....  ....       .....   62
10. Percent Cumulative Progress Completion Schedule ....e............   74
11. Procurement Schedule for Major Contracts ......................   75
12. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements for Bank Loan and
IDA Credit ....      ....     ...................                   77
13. Monitorir.g Indicators ..... , .................. .... ... .   78
14. Environmental Impact Assessment and Implementation Plan ......   . 79
15. Assumptions for Economic Analysis ........................ ....      90
16. List of Selected Documents in Project File            ..             94
CHARTS
1. WASA Organizational Chart (Exi-ting) .......................   95
2. WASA Reorganization Chart (Proposed) ....................... .       96
3. Project Implementation Schedule: Bar Chart    ......         .....  98
MAPS
1. Existing Water Systems (IBRD 21809)
2. Proposed Project Roseau Dam Water Supply Scheme
(IBRD 21810)



ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Government of St. Lucia (COSL)
Beneficiary:     Water and Sewerage Authority (WASA)
Amount:          Loan: US$2.5 million equivalent
Credit: SDR 4.0 million (US$ 5.2 million equivalent)
Terms:           Loan: 17 years with 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate,
Credit: Standard, with 35 years maturity.
Project
Descri2tion:     The key objectives of the project are to promote
reliability, quantity and quality of water supply in the
rapidl) urbanizing Castries (capital) and the Northwest
part of the island, and to strengthen the institutional
and financial performance of WASA. The project, to be
implemented during 1990-95, would comprise: (a) a dam
water supply scheme which includes (i) a reservoir on the
upper reaches of the Roseau River (about 700 Mill. imp.
gallons capacity) and raw water pumping; (ii) Law water
transmission, treatment and treated water conveyance
systems; and (iii) environmental mitigatory measures
arising from the dam reservoir construction
(reforestation, schistosomiasis control and relocation of
some 42 families); (b' purchase of operation and
maintenance equipment; (c) technical assistance and
training; and (d) project management and administration.
WASA will be the principal executing agency for all
components except (a) (iii), which will be implemented by
the line ministries of GOSL. The overall project will be
managed by a special Project Management Unit (PMU) at
WASA, headed by a Project Director. A Steering Committee,
chaired by the Ministry of Planning, would provide the
policy direction for the conduct of the project. The
project is cofinanced with CIDA (grant), CDB (loan) and
OPEC Fund (loan).
Benefits and
Risks:    The proposed project represents the least cost solution
for meeting the projected water demand. Economic benefits
are expected from : (a) improved water supply to about 50%
of the population and attendant health benefits (in low-
income areas) (b) orderly housing development and
expansion of tourism and commerce; and (c) the use of
surplus water for irrigation (750 acres) during the
initial years and limited hydro-power. The technical
assistance programs would result in improved productivity
of WASA personnel.



- 2 -
Main project risks are (a) limited implementation capacity
of WASA in relation to the project sizet this risk will
be minimized by the proposed establishment of the PMU with
qualified staffing, engagement of consultants in the areas
of project management and supervision and the undertaking
of agreed institutional t.aining programs for WASA's
technical personnel; the implementation of the key dam
component itself (which is a grant to GOSL) will be a
direct responsibility of CIDA, with intensive supervision
to be provided by its field personnel in Barbados; (b) the
increased financial leverage of WASA: this could pose
some liquidity problems in case of major production or
demand setbacks; this risk is mitigated by the
Government's ability to relax WASA's repayment terms on
CIDA's grant funds, further modest tariff increases and
the decline in the relative share of debt obligations in
future years; and (c) environmental risks (such as
schistosomiasis)^ GOSL and WASA are committed to the
agreed environmeu.;al monitoring and mitigatory measures;
Government has already appointed a joint ministerial
committee to coordinate the implementation of the
environmental components.
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost:                               -------(US$ million)--------
Roseau Dam Water Supply Scheme             5.9          21.6        27.5
Equipment Purchase                         0.1           0.7         0.8
Technical Assistance and Training          0.2           0.9         1.1
Project Management and Administration    0.3             1.2         1.5
Base Cost (Jan. 1990 Prftes)       6.5          24.4         30.9
Physical contingencies                     0.7           2.4         3.1
Price contingencies                        1.2           4.2         5.4
Total Cost                         8.4          31.0         39.4
Interest during construction                -            1.1         1.1
Total Financing Required           8.4          32.1         40.5
Financing Plan:
GOSL                                       4.2           -           4.2
IBRD                                        -           2.5          2.5
IDA                                         -           5.2          5.2
Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA)                3.0          16.3        19.3
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)           1.2           6.1         7.3
OPEC Fund                                   -            2.0         2.0
Total Finaacing Available          8.4          32.1         40.5
Estimated Disbursements --     --------Bank Fiscal Year-----------------
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
------------- (US$ millions)------------
Annual                   1.2    2.5    1.7    1.2    0.9    0.2
Cumulative               1.2    3.7    5.4    6.6    7.5    7.7
Estimated Economic Rate of Return: 15%



II. THE SECTCR
The Setting
2.01     St. Lucia is a Caribbean island of volcanic origin located in t!le
Windward chain with a total area of 238 square miles. The topography of
the island - about 27 miles long and 14 miles wide - is rugged with
mountain peaks and deeply incised river channels in the upper catchment
area. St. Lucia's population (1937) is about 142,000 of which 60% is
concentrated in the capital of Castries and the adjoining Northwest area,
the most urbanized part of the island and Vieux Fort in the South. The
remainder live in small towns and rural villages. The current net urban
growth rate is at 2.2% per annum, with the increasing population growth
occurring in the northwest coastal corridor where tourism is projected to
increase (12% p.a.). While the mainstay of the economy is agriculture
(principally banana production) efforts are currertly undertaken by the
Government of St. Lucia (GOSL) to diversify the economic base to tourism
and light manufacturing sector.
2.02     The water service coverage for the island is high.  Over 90% of
the population has access to potable water through individual connections
(most urban areas), bulk water supplies or standpipes (rural areas). As a
result of this and due to medical interventions, GOSL has been highly
successful in the control of water-related diseases (particularly gastro-
enteric diseases and schistosomiasis). The overall water production for
the island is estimated at 7.2 million imperial gallons/day (MJGD) with a
systemwide unaccounted-for ratio of about 28% (higher at 33% for the
Castries and the Northwest area). Of the total water sold, about 82% is
metered through individual or bulk metering. The coverage of individual
metering, currently representing only about 60% of total consumption on the
island, is being expanded in the semi-urban and rural areas where
standpipes are common.
2.0;     Total water demand for the island is projected to increase from
the current 5.2 million imp. gal. per day (MIGD) to 8.9 MIGD in 2010, of
which the needs for the Castries and Northwest area would represent between
55 - 60% of the total. Water demand for the above area is projected to
increase at a higher rate (4.0% p.a.) than the rest of the island (2.5%
p.a.) in the medium-term (1989-1996). Water production levels for Castries
and Northwest - estimated at 3.4 MIGD and much lower during the dry season
- have been inadequate to meet the water demand without frequent rationing
(particularly during the dry months which also coincide with the peak
tourism period). The quality and reliability of supply are currently
affected due to hard-to-oredict river flows in the dry season, plugging of
intakes in the rainy season, and limited water treatment and transmission
capacities. The major sources of water supply are small rivers and springs
and practically no ground water, due to low permeability and porosity of
the rock formations in the island. Because of the variable nature of the
rainfall and the "flash" nature of the rivers, the development of a water
storage reservoir has been long considered to be an integral part of the
long-term water supply strategy for the Castries - Northwest corridor.



-4-
2.04     The onl  major public se-werage scheme on the island is limited to
serving about 7% ,f the Castries urban area (about 1380 connections).
There is no treatment and the raw sewage is discharged into the Castries
Harbor with potential pollution problems. Most hotels in the Northwest
region (Rodney Bay and Cap Estate) treat their own wastewater in over-
loaded package treatment plants of questionable performance prior to
discharge into the sea. Most of the St. Lucian population use on-plot
units such as pit privies, bore-holes or septic tanks which have not
performed adequately due to poor soil conditions and lack of maintenance.
The disposal of septage has not been dealt with adequately. The Castries
City Council also operates a night-soil collection system (on an adhoc
basis) for certain areas of the city wh4ch has only contributed to
additional pollution-related problems arising from the direct disposal of
the nightsoil in the bay without treatment. The problems in the sewerage
sector and their impact on tourism and public 2lealth have been well
recognized by GOSL and will be addressed starting in 1990 with the
assistance of the French Government (para. 2.06).
Sector Organization and Institutions
2.05     The water supply and sewerage sector is the responsibility of the
Water and Sewerage Authority (WASA), which functions under the portfolio of
the Ministry of Health (MOH). In the area of sector planning and aid
coordination, WASA receives assistance from the Central Planning Unit (CPU)
of the Ministry of Planning, Personnel, Establishment and Training (MPPET).
WASA is a statutory body which was founded in 1984 as a successor to the
Central Water Authority established in 1964. The main functions of WASA
are (i) the provision of water supplies and the conservation, augmentation,
distribution and the proper use of water resources including preservation
and protection of the watersheds; and (ii) the treatment and disposal of
sewage and other effluents. While the first function has been traditional,
WASA acquired the Castries sewerage management responsibility (except the
night soil collection system noted in para. 2.04) from the Castries City
Council under the second function. During its formative years, WASA
benefitted assistance provided by Wessex Water Authority (U.K), through a
"twinning arrangement" in the areas of operations, management and training.
During the period 1975-87 significant expansions of the water supply
systems were undertaken throughout the island. Even though the financial
performance of WASA has improved in the recent years, further efforts are
warranted to enable it to achieve financial self-sufficiency. In light of
its recent involvement in the sewerage sector, WASA's capabilities need
also to be vastly expanded in the planning, operation and maintenance of
wastewater facilities.
Sector Investment, Performance and Constraints
2.06     Between 1980 and 1988, capital works expenditures in the water and
wastewater sectors respectively amounted to US$10.0 million and US$1.7
million, financed in a large part by external donors, particularly the
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), the British Development Division (BDD,
U.K.) and the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA).  Capital
contributions from WASA's internal cash generation averaged less than 15%
of the total investme-ats. The planning figure for the five-year Capital
Works Program for the period 1989-94 is about US$7.3 million for water
sector investments (excluding the Roseau dam water scheme under tha



proposed project) and about US$7.6 million for sewerage investments; the
latter include a malor sewage collection and treatment project for the
Northwest area (Rodney Bay), to be finarnced by the French Government
(1990-92). WASA is currently constructing a high level intake on the
Millet river (a tributary of the Roseau river) with CDB-financing. The
Millet system is an integral element of the proposed Roseau dam reservoir
scheme, and will provide a supplemental supply for the near-term needs.
With the French Government assistance, the government is also currently
designing an expanded sewage collection and marine disposal scheme for the
Castries area. Implementation of the above scheme is anticipated for 1995.
2.07     Even though WASA is relatively well-managed, several factors
--among them, principally, the increasing water demand, inadequate water
treatment and transmission capacity and lack of raw water storage -- are
taxing the capacity of the agency. Additional constraints affecting WASA's
performance are:
(a)  inadequate levels of water tariff which will preclude WASA
from fulfilling all its financial obligations;
(b)  lack of an appropriate tariff structure for existing sewerage
services which hampers collections;
(c)  lack of capable and experienced middle-level professionals in
the organization; and
(d1  need to reduce the high level of unaccounted-for water
(currently at 33%) in the Castries - Northwest corridor.
Both GOSL and WASA are aware of the above constraints, and intend to
address them under the proposed project.  A management audit of WASA,
undertaken in 1988, also recommended certain structural changes needed tc
foster the growth of the organization, taking into account the proposed
increase in the levels of investment and asset acquisition over the next
decade (the proposed Roseau dam water supply pr;ject, Rodney Bay Sewerage
Scheme, etc). An action plan has been agreed with WASA to carry out these
changes as well as to introduce certain legal measures (such as plumbing
codes, regulations, etc.) needed to strengthen its sector role and
responsibilities (para. 3.13).
Government's Development Strategy in the Sector
2.08     The Government's development strategy is aimed at strengthening
the three main sectors (agriculture, tourism and manufacturing), as well as
diversifying the economy, With respect to agriculture, the broad objective
is to restructure the sector through the creation of institutions (such as
the St. Lucia Model Farms) to itcrease productivity in an effort to improve
farm income and the standard of living. The strategy for tourism focuses
on major expansion in hotel capacity. Finally, the active enco-iragement of
manufacturing is part of the Government's diversification and promotion
strategy. The Government sees the three sectors playing critical roles not
only in foreign exchange earning but also in employment generation. In an
effort to pursue its development strategy, the Government has formulated a
public sector investment program (PSIP) which is weighed heavily in favor
of the infrastructure (particularly roads, water supply and sanitation)
necessary to support private sector activities in the three key sectors.



-6-
The proposed project is an integral part of the PSIP for meeting the water
demand of the increasing population and the expanding tourism, commercial,
and industrial sectors in the Castries - Northwest area. (St. Lucia
Economic Memorandum, World Bank Report No. 7117-SLU, dated March 15, 1988;
Long-Term Economic Prospects of the OECS Countries, World Bank Report No.
8058-CRG, dated February 15, 1990).
2.09     Domestic water consumption in St. Lucia has been undergoing a
period of rapid change and growth. This grcwth has been influenced by the
Government's policy to meet the objectives of the International Drinking
Water Supply and Sanitation Decade. In line with these objectives, the
Goverinment is well advanced in its work to provide piped water supplies
through public taps to all rural communities of more than 10 dwellings.
The proposed project will assist the Government to develop infrastructure
to support economic development and to improve the health and general well-
being of the population.
Rationale for Bank and IDA Involvement
2.10     The proposed opevation represents the Bank Group's first direct
involvement in St. Lucia. The project under consideration is in line with
the Bank's overall view that improvements to St. Lucia's basic
infrastructur are a high priority to enable increased investment in the
productive sectars and encourage tourism. The blend of IDA credit and Bank
loan to St. Lucia is proposed pursuant to the November 1985 Board decision
on terms of lending to the Eastern Caribbean small island economies
graduating tom IDA, which are considered creditworthy for a limited Bank
lending. T. 'ank's involvement in the proposed project was instrumental
in the prepa.ation of a program for institutional strengthening and
financial improvements in the sector.
III. THE PROJECT
Proiect Origin
3.01     At the GOSL request, a Bank reconnaissance mission visited St.
Lucia in May, 1987 to discuss possible financial assistance to WASA in the
water sector, together with other donors, namely, CIDA, CDB and OPEC Fund.
CIDA, as the lead donor, had earlier commissioned project feasibility
studies (Stanley Associates Engineering Ltd., or SAEL) for the Roseau River
Basin Water Development Program. CIDA also provided additional consulting
services for the preparation of a project proposal responsive to the
requirements of the Bank, particularly in the broader institutional areas
of the sector. Technical discussions and negotiations were held in
Washington during February 20-23, 1990. The GOSL delegation was led by Mr.
Ausbert D'Auvergne, Permanent Secretary, MPPET.  CIDA, as the project lead
agency, also participated in the negotiations.
Proj'ct Objectives
3.02     The physical objective of the project is to improve the
reliability of and address the long-term requirements for potable water
supply within the capital city of Castries and the Northwest region of St.
Lucia, which has evidenced a rapid urbanization rate and increasing levels
of tourism in recent years. The institutional objective of the project is
to strengthen the capabilities of WASA in the areas of management,



- 7 -
operation and maintenance and to enhance its resource mobilization
capabilities. Specifically, the project would assist WASA to:
(a) augment water supply in the project area through the
provisiun of raw water storage (design year - 2025) and
expansion of treatment and transmission capabilities (design
year - 2010);
(b) foster the growth of WASA as a capable sector organization
and establish policies and detailed procedures (codes, by-
laws and regulations etc.) for the controlling of activities
in the sector;
(c) strengthen the capabilities and performance of .ASA in the
financial, commercial, operational and maintenance areas; and
undertake required training programs; and
(d)  establish an appropriate tariff structure, part'cularly for
sewerage services and introduce sound financial policies and
commercial measures as needed.
Project Setting
3.03     Project Area.  The project area (IBRD Map 21810) covers mainly the
Castries and the Northwest area of the Island, which contains about 71,000
population (1988) and the majority of the to,.rlst facilities. Agricultaral
dcvelopment, including irrigation, is also particularly extensive in the
northwest sector of the country. T?  western belt of the area contains
developed lands and tourism facilitcs excending from Marigot through
Castries to Rodney Bay and Cap Estate. The mountainous central part of the
island is located on the southern boundaries of the project area and the
Roseau Basin watershed. To the east are sparsely populated lands used for
farming operations. The project area is currently served by an integrated
system of river intakes, treatment plants, transmission pipelines and
distributior- systems operated by WASA. (Annex 1 and Map 21809 provide
det&ils of existing facilities). Approximately 60,000 persons are served
by this system, which produces about 2.7 MIGD of potable water. The
remaining population is served by individual systems of total 0.3 to 0.5
MIGD capacity. Total water demand in the service area is increasing
rapidly and the capacity of the existing system is being exceeded. (See
following para.). Reliability of supply is currently affected adversely
due to low river flows in the annual dry season, plugging of intakes in
high river flow conditions, and limited treatment and transmission
capacities. The problem of a high unaccounted-for water (33%) for the
project area also needs to be addressed.
3.04     Population and Water Demand Estimates.  Population growth and
water demand projections were made by CIDA consultants and revised by the
Beik (Annex 2). Population projection shows an increase in population in
the oroject area from 73,000 in 1989 to 116,500 in 2010, and to 139,000 in
the year 2025. The corresponding water consumption (from all uses) is
projected to increase from about 2.3 MIGD in 1989 to 5.3 MIGD in 2010 and
to 7.4 MIGD in 2025 which would represent an average growth rate of 4.0%
per annum for the intermediate period, 1989-2010 and 3.2% per annum for the
overall planning period 1989-2025. The projected higher growth rate for



the intenmediate period is similar to the increasing trends in water use
observed in ot!er small Caribbean islands with a suppressed demand problem
and increasing levels of urban development and tourism. Detailed water
demand projections by user category -- residential, tourism, and industrial
-- are presented in Table 2, AnnAx 2. The average growth in per-capita
consumption (domestic) estimate computes to 1.6Z per year for the period
1988-2010. This takes into account life-style increase and unsuppression
of consumption. The projections for production -- from 3.4 MIGD in 1988 to
7.1 MIGD in 2010 -- assume conservatively that the unaccounted-for water
would be reduced from the current 33% to 25% by 2010.
3.05     Roseau Dam and Reservoir Scheme.  Based on the results of the
CIDA-financed feasibility studies, the most feasible water management
option is the development of a water storage reservoir. Because of the
volcanic characteristics of the island and a rugged topography, there are
no developable ground water sources. While it is feasible to marginally
increase the run-of-river intake system currently used, this would not meet
long-term needs or assure supply during drought conditions. Other options
such as desalination and importation of fresh water were explored and found
uneconomical (para. 3.48). The proposed reservoir will be located in the
mountainous interior of the island in order to retain the runoff from
seasonal high rainfall periods. Three potential reservoir locations
(Roseau, Cul-de-Sac and Troumasse river sites) were assessed, and based en
economic, technical and environmental criteria, the upper Roseau river was
selected as the preferred site. Cost comparisons were also made for four
types of dams (concrete gravity, concrete slab and buttress, earth core
rockfill and concrete face rockfill) to determine the most preferable
option (namely the concrete face rockfill dam). In addition to potable
water, the reservoir would also supply irrigation water obtained from
storage in excess of WASA's requirements up to the year 2010 and some
limited hydropower for on-site application.
3.06     Planning Horizon.  The year 2025 was selected as the planning
horizon for the dam and reservoir sizing. This represents a 40-year
period, which is considered reasonable for major source works where economy
of scale and long-term capacity are a major consideration. The reservoir
capacity is desl3ned to meet water demands against a drought of 5
consecutive months duration with an average return interval of 10 years.
The study consultants also explored the possibility of cost savings through
a staging of dam construction and determined that the cost differential in
building a dam to meet water demands of the year 2010, as opposed to the
year 2025, was rather insignificant (about 3%). The year 2010 was used for
the planning of transmission lines and storage tanks. Implementation of
the new water treatment plant was phased in three stages to provide
capacity to the design year 2000, 2010 and 2025 respectively. Design
details and justific&zion are fully presented in the CIDA-financed
feasibility study reports (Annex 16).
Project Description
3.07     The proposed project is divided into the following parts:
(a) Part A: The Roseau Dam Water SuPPly Scheme. (US$27.5
million or 89% of the total base cost): Includes (i) the
construction of a concrete-faced rockfill dam and reservoir



- 9 -
(crest length-approx. 650 feet; height-approx. 135 feet;
reservoir capacity - 700 MIG; surface area - 60 acres) in the
npper reaches of the Roseau River; and associated raw water
pumping; (ii) a water treatment plant at Ciceron (with
initial capacity - 4.8 MIGD); (iii) raw water transmission
(7.0 miles; 24-inch dia.) and treated water transmission (2.3
milea; 20-inch dia.); (iv) associated infrastructure scheme -
a new dam access road (1 mile long), upgrading of existing
road (at Mille!) to carry construction traffic and power
transmission to the dam site; (v) consulting engineering
services for the design and supervision of items (i) through
(iv) above; (vi) environmental monitoring and mitigatory
schemes including inter alia, watershed management,
reforestation, family relocation (about 42) and
schistosomiasis surveil.lance and control as needed. (See
Annex 3 for the description of the Roseau dam water supply
Scheme and associated environmental programs).
(b) Part B: Equipment purchase. (US$0.8 million or 2% of base!
cost): Includes the purchase of computer hardware and
software for WASA's financial management improvements, lea};
detection equipment, water meters, communication and
telemetry equipment, reservoir inspection vehicle end
miscellaneous workshop tools. (See Annex 4 for a list of
proposed equipment);
(c) Part C: Technical Assistance and Training: (US$1.1 million
or 4% of base cost). Incluides consulting services (about 60
man-months) for (i) implementation of improved financial
management information systems; (ii) undertaking a fixed
assets revaluatIon study and a sewerage tariff study; (iii)
carrying out of engineering-related operational and
maintenance improvements at WASA through a twinning
arrangement with a water utility; and (iv)assisting WASA w.Lth
future project preparation and engineering .eview activities
as needed. Man-power training programs would include
professional training courses, scholarships and
familiarization tours. (See Annex 5 for outline terms of
reference of the technical assistance component and the
training program); and
(d) Part D. Project Management and Administration: (US$1.5
million or 5% of the base ccJt)s Includes (i) the stafflng
cost of the Project Management Unit (Project Director,
Accountant and Public Relations Specialist); and (ii)
consulting services (about 80 man-months) to the above unit
in the areas of program scheduling, contract supervision and
coordination, progress reporting, and overall project
management (para. 3.31).
3.08     Annex 3 also presents a summary of proposed complementary water
facilities (to be financed by WASA outside of the scope of the proposed
project) and sewerage facilities (to be financed with French government
assistance, also outside of the scope of th.e proposed project). The
details regarding the complementary facilities, as to their adequacy of
provisions and financing, were discussed during negotiations, and found to
be satisfactory to the Bank Group.



- 10 -
Project Cost and Financing
3.09     The total coat of the proposed project, net of taxes (which are
less than 1%) but including cortingencies, is estimated to be about US$39.4
million (See Annex 6 and Annex 7 for details), with a foreign exchange
comnponent of about US$31.0 million or 79%. Base costs are expressed in
January 1990 prices and escalated for (i) a physical contingency factor of
up to 18% for physical components (15% for dam construction; 18% for dam
r-ar-erials; 12 to 15% for other physical elements), and (ii) price
conitingencies assumed as 5% per year for foreign costs and 6% per year for
loctul costs. No physical contingency has, however, been included for
equipment purchase, technical c.sistance and consulting services. The
status of design of physical components varies from advanced preliminary
engineering to detailed engineering, depending on the component (para.
3.35). Construction costs are based on unit costs developed by the CIDA
consuLltants that reflect the actual costs of similar contracts adjusted to
St. Lucia conditions. (The exception is the Roseau Dam Contract -- to be
CIDA--financed, and to be executed by Canadian contractors -- which reflects
thte t:anadian supervision costs and local labor costs). The base cost of
the Ftoseau dam was reviewed and determined to be conservative by a Bank
consultant (the dam site has favorable geological conditions with hard bed
ro,cks). CIDA has indicated to the cofinanciers and GOSL that, should there
be a cost overrun in the dam construction, it would take all necessary
sti!ps to use additional financing. To ensure a satisfactory finailcing of
tho dam from the Bank group9s viewpoint, assurances were obtained at
nel:otistions that (i) GOSL would review with the Bank Group the project
financing plan soon after the upening of the dam construction bids and that
(ii) GOSL would continue to review annually with the Bank group the status
of tvailability of funds in the following years of construction before new
comvitments can be authorized under the proposed loan/credit.  (It is
est4mated that by late 1991, when bid documents for d&m construction would
be olpened, the Bank group would have disbursed about US$2.4 million). The
cost of the proposed technical assistance component assumes an estimated 60
man-uxonths of consultant services.
3.10     The project financing plan is presented in Table III-2.  The
propog;ed Bank loan of US$2.5 million and IDA credit of US$5.2 million would
finance about 19% of the total financing needs of the project. The
remainder of the financing plan entails the following: (i) US$19.3 million
from CIDA (48%); (ii) US$7.3 million from CDB (18%) to be drawn from two
differer.t funding sources; (iii) US$2.0 million from OPEC Fund (5%); and
(iv) US$4.2 million from GOSL (10%).  The CIDA funds are earmarked as a
grant to the GOSL, whilst those from other agencies would be a loan to the
Government at standard terms and conditions applicable to each agency. All
externa'L funds - loan or grant - would be relent to WASA as follows: World
Bank loan and credit funds at 8% tor 17 years including 4 years grace; CDB
- at 9.3% for 20 years with 5 years grace (US$2.8 million) and at 7.Z% for
40 years with 10 years grace (US$4.5 million); OPEC - 5.5% for 17 years
with 4 years grace; and CIDA funds at nil interest rate for 40 years,
includ'Lng 5 years grace. GOSL would bear the foreign exchange risk on all
externially borrowed funds. The OPEC loan would be administered by CDB. The
GOSL's equity contribution would be through budgetary allocations to its
line algencies (US$2.3 million) for carrying out the required environmental
prograzs  and to WASA (US$1.9 million) for executing dam-related physical
componoants.  Agreements were reached during negotiations regarding the



- 11 -
TABLE III -1: Summary of Prolect Cost
EC$ million           US$ mll'ion        Foreign
as % of
Part    Component         Loc.   Forgn.  Total   Loc.  Formn.  Total    Total
A       Roseau Dam
Water Supply
Scheme              15.8   58.3   74.1      5.9   21.6   27.5       79
B       Equipment
Purchase             0.3    1.9    202      0.1    0.7    0.8       88
C       Technical
Assistance
and Training         0.6    2.4    3.0      0.2    0.9    1.1       80
D       Project
Management &
Administration       0.9    3.2    4.1      0.3    1.2    1.5       80
Base Cost (Jan '90 prices)  17.6   65.8   83.4      6.5   24.4   30.9       79
Physical Contingencies        1.9    6.6    8.5     0.7    2.4    3.1       77            1
Price Contingencies           3.2   11.3   14.6     1.2    4.2    5.4       78
Total Project Cost           22.7   83.7  106.5     8.4   31.0   39.4       79
Interest during
construction (IDC)
on IBRD loan                  -      0.5    0.5     -       0.2    0.2      100
IDC on CDB Loan               -      2.4    2.4     -      0.9    0.9       100
Total Financing
required                    22.7   86.6  109.4      8.4   32.1   40.5
timely availability of GOSL's contribution for project implementation.
WASA would provide adequate complementary investments in the project area
(network rehabilitation, service connections, etc; See Annex 3 for details)
roughly amounting to US$3.0 million (not included in the project cose..).
The details of the above complementary investment program were discussed
during negotiations. The CDB loan was approved on October 24, 1989 and the
OPEC loan on December 7, 1989. The Memorandum of Understanding between
GOSL and the Canadian Government was signed March 1, 1990. Completion of
all necessary steps required for disbursement of the cofinanciers9
grantfloans and execution of a sa.tisfa.ctory on-lending agreement between
GOSL and WASA for the Bank loan and IrA credit will be conditions of
effectiveness of the Bank group funds.



- 12 -
TABLE III - 2: Summary of Proiect Financing Plan
Total cost                  Financing Sources
including       ------------------------------------
Part   Component            Contingencies      W.B.   CIDA    CDB    OPEC    GOSL
(US$ million)                  (US$ million)
A      Roseau Dam Water
Supply
- Dam materials           1.7           -       -        -      1.7      -
- Dam construc.         14.4            -      14.4      -      -        -
- Water. Transm.         5.5                    -        5.5    -        -
- Raw Water
pumping, treatmt.     6.1            4.3     -        -      -        1.8
plant & roads
- Eng. & Spn.            5.4            0.9     3.5      0X7    0.3      -
- Environitl. measures
& land Acquist.      2.3            -       -       -       -        2.3
Subtotal                35.4            5.2    11.9      6.2    2.0      4.1
B      Equipment purchase        0.9           0.8      -       -      -        0.1
C      Technical Assistance
and Training             1.3           1.3     -        -      -        -
D      Project Management
& Administration         1.8           0.2     1.4      0.2    -        -
Total Prolect Cost       39.k           7.5    19.3      6.4    2.0      4.2
IDC                       1.1           0.2     -        0.9    -        -
Total Financing          40.'           7.7    19.3      7.3    2.0      4.2
The Borrower and Executing Agency
3.11     GOSL would be the borrower of the proposed Bank loan and IDA
credit, and WASA the executing agency. WASA was constituted in 1984 as a
statutory corporation under the policy direction of the Ministry of Health
and as a successor to the Central Water Authority, earlier founded in 1964
(See Annex 8 for an institutional profile on WASA). WASA is governed by a
seven-member board whose chairman is appointed by the Prime Minister.
WASA's chief executive officer, the general manager, is appointed by the
board. The rates of tariff charged to the consumers are approved by the
Public Utilities Commission (PUC) after a public hearing. WASA's current
structure includes four departments: Operations, Capital Works, Finance and
Administration, and Establishment. Since its inception in 1984, WASA's



- 13 -
management has steadily improved as a result of a useful twinning
relationship with WJessex Water Authority (under U.K. assistance). Major
capital works in water supply have been successfully undertaken by WASA
since its establishment.
3.12     The size of WASA's staff, currently at 256, has been almost level
for five years, which has resulted in sharply improved productivity from
about 25 employees per 1000 connections five years ago to abcut 13 now.
This ratio will further decrease with the ongoing installation of
individual connections in rural areas. WASA lacks some qualified staff at
the middle and senior management levels. While WASA carries out short-term
planning through annual budgeting, and has a five-year capital works
program, it has no overall long-term planning strategy. (Fiowever, for the
project area, long-term planning in the water sector is already complete to
the year 2010, through the CIDA-financed Roseau River Basin Development
Study). Improvements, some already underway, are required in the
unaccounted-for water, currently at 33% in the project area. Improvements
are also needed in the financial management and commercial areas,
particularly with regard to information systems and reduction of accounts
receivable. WASA's operations are, however, hampered by the difficult
terrain (very mountainous), a hostile climate (unpredictable drought, heavy
rainfall) and lack of adequate treatment and transmission capacity. The
proposed project would address the above problems through the provision of
raw water storage, additions to treatment and transmission capacity, and a
technical assistance program.
3.13     An institutional review of WASA was undertaken in 1988 to id.atify
its strengths and weaknesses and propose measures to foster its growth,
taking into account particularly the proposed increase in the levels of
investment and asset acquisition over the next decade (e.g. the proposed
Roseau dam water supply project and the Rodney Bay sewerage scheme, and the
Castries sewerage scheme being designed). An institutional improvements
action plan for the agreed recommendations of the above study was
formulated in early 1989. (See Table 1, Annex 8). The key provisions of
the action plan are the followings
(a) WASA reorganization. (See Charts 1 and 2). Includes changes
to improve reporting relationships particularly at the top-
level management and in the Operations Department; creation
of a senior-level Planning Committee; expansion of the
sewerage function, and a fuller responsibility of the
Personnel Department to undertake training programs;
(b) Legal aspects of Improved Management. Include.s the
preparation of revised rules and regulations to the WASA Act
of 1984 in the areas of water pollution control, effluent
discharges, water shed management, and financial control; the
above measures are needed to strengthen the sector functions
and responsibilities of WASA;
(c) Financial Information Systems and Data Manaxement. Includes
the establishment of a computer-based Management Information
System (MIS) to improve WASA's computational and data
processing capabilities; and



- 14 -
(d) Future Manpower Needs and Training. Includes the
strengthening of middle management particularly in the
Finance and Operations complex, recruitment of additional key
personnel, and establishment of a systematic training program
in the managerial, technical and clerical areas.
3.14     In accordance with the study recommendations already approved by
the board, the WASA reorganization would be completed by April, 1990.
Other aspects of the action plan would be carried out as set out in Table
1, Annex 8. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that WASA would carry
out the agreed institutional improvements action plan within the stipulated
timeframe. The technical assistance programs proposed under the project are
designed to facilitate the implementation of the recommended institutional
strengthening efforts. WASA has received and would continue to receive
assistance from Wessex Water Authority during September 1989-April 1990 in
the preparation of draft revisions to the Water Act of 1984 and in the
ae-ailing of the computer hardware and software specifications for the MIS
system improvements.
Financial Performance and Prospects
3.15     Past Performance.  The financial performance of WASA in recent
years has been reasonable (Annex 9, Tables 1-6). Revenues increased from
ECS8.7 million in 1985 to EC$11.4 million in 1988 despite the lack of any
tariff increase, reflecting increased water production and consumption; net
income (excluding foreign exchange losses) was positive in every year since
1984, and the return on average net assets (at historical costs) was about
2% in 1987 and 1988. These results are biased upward by WASA accounting
for depreciation on a historical cost basis, and the Government servicing
interest on two minor loans made to WASA by the CDB and one loan due to
local commercial banks; after adjustment for the above factors net income
for 1988 would have shown breakeven results. The balance sheet position as
of end 1988 was satisfactory: current assets were about twice current
liabilities and equity substantially exceeded liabilities; net income
before depreciation and interest was four to six times debt service
requirements (Annex 9, Table 1, 2 and 5).
3.16     Water Demand.  A detailed forecast of water demand for the project
area and for the rest of the island was prepared by the CIDA consultants
and reviewed by the Bank staff (Annex 2, Tables 1 and 2). The overall
demand for water is expected to grow at about 3.2% annually throughout the
projection period (1989-2025). Consumption in the project area will be
growing faster (4.0%) than the rest of the island (2.5%) for the near-term
because of in-migration trends, introduction of individual metering in
rural areas, the high potential for tourism and commercial growth and
satisfaction of suppressed demand. The latter factor causes the projected
consumption in the project area to be higher (5.8%) in the early years
(1989-96) than in the rest of projection period. By comparison, water
sales in the project area grew at 5.7% in 1987 and 6.9% in 1988.
3.17     Projected Financial Results.  Even without the proposed project,
the financial pressure on WASA was to increase in the coming years. First,
the ongoing CDB project (Millet Intake System) will in itself add EC$1.1
mill4(n t- debt service in 1992 (by comparison, total debt service amounted



- 15 -
to only about ECS0.6 million in 1988). Second, WASA will start servicing
debt on those loans currently serviced by the Government (para. 3.15).
Third, existing and planned investments will be requiring additional
contributions from WASA. An examination of WASA's financial obligations
during project appraisal revealed an immediate need for a tariff adjustment
to enable WASA to cover its operating costs, service its debt and make a
contribution to investment (Annex 9, Tables 1, 3 and 6). Subsequently,
WASA requested, and the Public Utilities Commission granted, a 13% tariff
increase as of January 1, 1990, and a 9% increase effective January 1,
1991.
3.18     WASA  is planning, with the aid of the French Government, to
undertake a major s,.werage scheme for the northwest Rodney Bay area to
overcome pollution hazards which might pose potential lhealth risks and
threaten the growth of the tourism industry. The cost of the project, to
be implemented in the period 1990-92, is estimated at EC$15.1 million
(US$5.6 millioni equivalent). The investment cost and the revenues and
operating costs for the Rodney Bay sewerage scheme are included in the
financial projections.
3.19     The financial projections covering the period 1990-1996 (Annex 9)
demonstrate that with 6% inflation, an annual tariff increase of 10% will
be required from 1992 through 1996. The exact future tariff increases will
depend on various operating and economic factors. Agreements were obtained
during negotiations on a general cash generation covenant requiring WASA
to: (a) conduct six months before the beginning of each fiscal year an
analysis of WASA's estimated cash inflows and outflows for the subsequent
two years; and (b) undertake appropriate measures, including tariff
adjustment as necessary, to ensure that the revenues would be sufficient to
meet working expenses, debt service obligations and required contribution
to investment (according to the agreed medium-term program reflected in the
financial projections). The ultimate authority for granting a tariff
increase is the Public Utilities Commission. However, the current Public
Utilities Commission act of 1973 allows tariffs to cover only operating
costs, depreciation and interest but does not allow return on assets or
generation of funds for future investments. To address this issue,
agreements were reached during negotiations that GOSL would establish a
mechanism by December 31, 1991 allowing WASA to set tariffs so as to be
able to also cover cash needs to fund investments and obtain a reasonable
rate of return. Agreement was also reached that, effective the Fi3cal Year
beginning January 1, 1990, WASA would service all its debt obligations and
would reimburse GOSL, over the 1990-92 period, the amount owed for past
payments made on behalf of WASA.
3.20     The ongoing CDB project and the proposed project will expand
substantially WASA's asset base; while WASA's assets on a historical basis
were only EC$65 million in 1988 (about EC$85 million on a revalued basis),
the ongoing CDB loan will add another EC$18 million and the proposed
project about EC$109 million. Total assets on a revalued basis in 1996
will be EC$313 million, up from the EC$65 million of 1988 (Annex 9,
Table 4). This increase will involve a commensurate increase in
depreciation charges from EC$1.4 million in 1988 to EC$7.6 million in 1996.
Debt will also expand multifold: in 1988 total long-term loans were EC$12
million and by 1994, when the proposed project and the Rodney Bay sewerage
scheme are complete, long term loans will reach EC$131 million (Annex 9,
Table 2). Accordingly, the ratio of debt to equity grows from 41% in 1988



- 16 -
to 159% in 1994. The IBRD-IDA and CDB loans to the Government related to
the proposed project are at concessional rates (e.g. average IBRD-IDA
blended rate is under 3%); however, the proposed on-leniding rate by the
Government to WASA is at an average of 8%. CIDA's grant to the Government
is passed on to WASA as an interest-free loan to be repaid over 40 years
with 5 years of grace. The above loans, together with the Rodney Bay
sewerage loan, have a substantial impact on WASA's debt service
obligations: by 1996 total principal and interest payment will amour. to
EC$9.4 million, up from EC$3.1 million in 1993 (prior to the project
completion) and EC$0.6 million in 1988.
3.21     The increase in depreciation charges and debt service will have a
material impact on the income statement and cash flow. Nevertheless, the
tariff increase scenario, depicted in para. 3.19 (10% annually throughout
1996) will allow WASA to show positive income for each year through 1996
with the exception of 1994 and 1995 (Annex 9, Table 1). WASA will also be
able to maintain a positive and acceptable cash position throughout the
period (Annex 9, Table 3). However, the operations of WASA will be more
leveraged: the current ratio is expected to deteriorate to around 1.6 in
1994 and the debt service ratio will reach a low point of 1.2 in that year.
It should be borne in mind, however, that the proposed project will satisfy
most i_.estment requirements in the water sector of St. Lucia through the
year 2025 with only minor additional investments required. Therefore, the
financial ratios will improve substantially in future years as the debt is
paid off and the revenue base expands. For instance, the deb. service
ratio improves from 1.2 in 1994 to 1.4 in 1996 and the debt to equity ratio
is reduced from 159% to 111%. While additional tariff increases could
improve debt service coverage in the first years following the project
completion, the analysis shows that an unacceptably high level of cash
would be accumulated by WASA with higher tariffs than those assumed in the
above scenario, where cash level in 1996 reaches EC$5 million, up from EC$1
million in 1988. Given the declining need for further investment in the
water sector after the project is complete, there is presently no
justification for assuming larger tariff increases coupled with a much
larger accumulation of cash.
3.22     Financial Risks.  In order to minimize the financial risk, close
monitoring of working expenses is necessary. First, the existing ratio of
about 13 staff per 1000 connection should be sufficient, with minor
exceptions, to conduct WASA's operations in the foreseeable future.
Agreement WAs reached during negotiations that the increase in staff (other
than the staff required for the implementation of WASA's new sewerage
schemes) over current levels would not exceed 5% by the end of 1992 and 10%
by the end of 1995. It was also agreed that the working ratio should not
exceed 75% through 1992 and 70% thereafter. In addition, WASA also agreed
to seek approval firm the Bank before incurring any new debt exceeding US$1
million in any fiscal year. The cash generation covenant mentioned earlier
(para 3.19) should assure adequacy of tariff barring unforeseen setbacks.
Finally, in the event of   :h a setback, the payment on CIDA's loan could
be rescheduled without any hardship to the Government, which receives
CIDA's funds as a grant. With these safeguards, and given the extreme
importance of water availability to St. Lucia's economy, the financial
risks inherent in the proposed project are acceptable.



- 17 -
3.23     A sensitivity analysis was conducted regarding the effect of a
reduction in water demand and increased investment cost on the needed
tariff increase to maintain an adequate cash position. The analysis shows
that, if revenues after project completion fall 10% below forecast (i.e.
annual growth in demand in the project area in the 1989-96 period of 3%
instead of 5.8%) the annual tariff increase in the period 1994-96 will have
to be around 12% instead of the assumed 10% (cash position in 1996 will
amount to EC$2 million). An increase of 10% in project cost (excluding the
dam component) to be financed fully by WASA, will require WASA to raise
rates by an additional 5% in 1991, 1992 and 1993.
3.24     Other Financial Conditions.  The level of accounts receivable at
the end of 1988 was about 142 days of billing, up from 121 days in 1987.
This excessive level reflects in part reassignment of crews from
disconnection to me-er installation. Agreement were reached during
negotiations that he level of accounts receivable would be reduced to 110
days not later than December 31, 1990, 100 days by the end of 1992 and 90
days by the end of 1994.   Similarly, WASA has been late in its payment of
electricity bills to the St. Lucia Power company (LUCELEC). Amounts
payable as of end 1988 amounted to EC$ 1.3 million or about 8 months of
consumption. Agreement was reached during negotiations that WASA would
reduce the amount payable to the power company to 60 days by the end of
1991.
3.25     The amount owed by customers on account of sewerage exceeds one
year of billing.  This is caused mainly by the existing resideLtial tarief
system, which is based on the assessed annual rental value of the property.
This system creates disputes between landlords and tenants as to who is
responsible for the bill; while the tenant is billed, the charge is
regarded by the tenant as a form of property tax which should be paid by
the owner. Also, the separate sewerage billing makes it difficult to
enforce payment through disconnectior of water service. A comprehensive
sewerage tariff study, reflecting the required investment levels for the
proposed medium-term sewerage schemes (Rodney Bay Sewerage/Castries
Sewerage) will be undertaken by WASA in mi4-1991, under the technical
assistance component of the project (Annex 5). The key objectives of this
study will be to formulate a water-based (volumetric) sewerage tariff
structure and rate as needed. Agreement was reached during negotiations
that by December 31, 1991, WASA would implement the new tariff recommended
in the above study.
3.26     The last revaluation of fixed assets in WASA's financial accounts
was carried out in early 1982. Currently, the assets and depreciation
charges are estimated to be about 40% below the level called for by present
replacement values. It was agreed during negotiations that WASA would, by
June 30, 1990, contract consultants to carry out a fixed asset revaluation
exercise and incorporate these results in the financial statements for
fiscal year 1991. Draft terms of reference for the study (Annex 5) have
been agreed with WASA and the other co-financiers.
3.27     WASA's accounting system is in large part manual (stores, payroll,
creditors, fixed assets, loans). Also, the computerized portion is handled
by the central Government, which results in frequent disruption of access,
delays in processing, inability to modify software, and restrictions on the
number of terminals. A feasibility study into the computing requirement of



- 18 -
WASA was carried out by Wessex Water in 1988. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that WASA would introduce an in-house computerized
accounting system in line with the recommendations of the above study, by
June 30, 1991. The above undertaking would be an integral part of the
proposed technical assistance program (Annex 5).
3.28     As a part of the institutional action plan, noted earlier, WASA is
to introduce three new positions to its accounting staff: a budget
controller (by August 31, 1990), a senior programmer and an internal
auditor (by September 30, 1990). With the addition of this staff, the
director of the accounting department will be able to properly manage the
department rather than carry on-line duties as at present. Also, internal
control functions and financial planning would be substantially improved.
3.29     Sewerage operations are very limited at present, accounting for
about 5% of WASA's revenues. However, as noted earlier, WASA is planning,
with the aid of the French Government, a major investment in sewerage in
the Rodney Bay area. A feasibility study report for the project was
prepared by BCEOM - SAFEGE (France) in January 1989 and updated in July
1989 (see Annex 3 for related details). The project, which is expected to
be started before the end of 1990, is financially viable. Given the
preferential terms offered for the project (100% financing at about 4% with
up to 20 years repayment) the project will generate positive cash flow
after three years. The negative flows for the first three years can be
easily ebsorbed by WASA.
3.30     Accounts and Audits.  WASA's accounting practices are overall
satisfactory and follow generally accepted principles applicable to a water
utility. The financial statements have been regularly audited by external
consultants. The audits have been satisfactory and without qua'lifications.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that WASA would continue to use
external auditors satisfactory to the Bank and that it would submit an
audited financial statement for each fiscal year not later than five months
after the end of such fiscal year. The audits would also cover the special
accoune and would provide a separate opinion on the use of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs; para 3.38) effective with the audit for fiscal year
1990.
Prolect Implementation Arrangements
3.31     Project Management.  Overall oroject management would be the
responsibility of WASA, under the policy direction of a Steering Committee
composed of members of the Central Planning Unit or CPU (Chairman) of the
Ministry of Planning Personnel, Establishment and Training, Ministry of
Finance, and CIDA. In order to manage the coordinated implementation of
the project involving several cofinanciers, a Project Management Unit (PMU)
would be established within WASA (anticipated timeframe -- April 1990).
Key staffing of PMU is to be include a Project Director to head the unit,
an Accountant and a Public Relations expert. The key functions of the PMU
would be to: manage the preparation of the project operational plan;
ensure effective collaboration and coordination among the various
cofinanciers with regard to contract execution and financing; coordinate
the preparation of progress and audit reports; identify implementation
bottlenecks, if any, and ensure that timely corrective actions are taken as
needed. In light of the key role to be played by PMU, CIDA has agreed to
finance the salaries of the key PMU personnel to ensure recruitment of



- 19 -
qualified staff. The terms of reference for the key PMU staffing were
agreed among the cofinanciers and WASA in May 1989. WASA has already
designated a qualified Project Director who will take up his position on
April 1, 1990. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that WASA would
establish and maintain for the project period a PMU with staffing
satisfactory to the Bank Group.
3.32     Technical Implementation.  To assist the PMU with the technical
implementation and management of the proposed water supply scheme,
agreements were reached during negotiations that consultants would be
appointed under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank Group. The
consultants would provide tt.e needed assistance in the areas of design,
contract documentation, bid evaluation, site supervision, and related
physical and financial progress reporting. On behalf of WASA and under the
PMU's control, the road components of the Roseau dam scheme would be
executed by the Ministry of Communications, Works and Transport and the
power line to the dam site would be installed by the St. Lucia power
company (LUCELEC). The implementation of mitigatory measures and
monitoring programs - related to potential environmental issues arising
from dam construction (para. 3.44 - 3.46) - would be the zesponsibility of
the respective line agencies of the GOSL, namely, the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Land, for matters related to watershed protection
and reforestation; the Ministry of dealth for matters related to
schistosomiasis, monitoring and control, and the Ministry of Community
Affairs for family relocation (some 42 families from the catchment area;
para. 3.44) and publicity campaigns. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that GOSL would carry out an envitonmental and resettlement
plan, according to an a,reed schedule, including measures to control and
eradicate schistosomiasis, relocate the affected families from the
catchment and reforest degraded areas of the watershed. An
interministerial committee, consisting of technical staff from the above
ministries -- chaired by MPPET -- has been in existence sirnce 1988 and
would continue its involvement in the planning and coordination of the
environmental programs. The above committee, together with the external
advisor to be financed by CIDA (outside of the financial scope of the
proposed project), would constitute an environmental review panel for the
project, acceptable to the Bank Group. The CPU would assist WASA with the
acquisition of land or right, of way required for the treatment plant and
transmission lines. No problems are foreseen in this regard.
3.33     The Roseau dam construction contract itself would be executed
under CIDA's procedures with assistance provided by the same PMU
consultants referred to earlier. CIDA will be fully responsible for
bidding (restricted to Canadian contractors), contract execution, payment
and monitoring of construction of the dam works. The direct implementation
responsibility of WASA with regard to dam construction will be thus
minimal. CIDA has appointed a dam review panel acceptable to the Bank
group. CIDA would also arrage for frequent monitoring visits by technical
experts during the dam construction phase. (Funds for these activities have
been provided by CIDA outside of the project costs through their "technical
monitor" contract). Given the large size of the project and its possible
impact on the availability of local construction labor (mostly unskilled),
agreements were reached at negotiations that the civil works contractors
would be allowed by COSL to import labor, if needed.



- 20
3.34     As regards the implementation of the technical assistance and
training component, assurances were obtained at negotiations that WASA
would appoint consultants under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank Group. The terms of reference for all technical assistance programs
(Annex 5) were discussed and agreed at negotiations. A twinning
arrangement involving an experienced water utility would be sought to carry
out the required improvements in the operation and maintenance areas of
WASA.
3.35     Project Preparation Status and Implementation Timeframe.  The
project would be implemented over the six-year period 1990-95. The early
months of the project period are being used for setting up the PMU and
completion of engineering and contract documentation for most works as
needed. Collection of baseline data for schisto monitoring and start-up of
nurseries for the reforestation program were launched in late-1989.
Engineering and detailed designs have been mostly completed for major works
scheduled for the first two years of implementation. The detailed
engineering of the dam would commence in April 1990 under CIDA's
supervision. Three crucial contract packages -- the construction of the
dam access road, the Ciceron vater treatment plant and the Sarot-Ciceron
raw water transmission line -- have been scheduled to commence in the early
years of implementation. The dam construction contract and associated raw
water pumping and transmission pipeline contracts would be executed in the
following years. The technical asListance and training programs for WASA
staff would be carried out throughout the project period. The timetable
for project implementation is presented in Chart 3 (See Annex 10 for
estimated cumulative completion progress for each component).
Procurement
3.36     Procurement arrangements for the overall prcject are summarized in
Table III-3 (See Annex 11 for details). Procurement of all contracts under
the project is designed on a parallel-financing basis and would follow the
applicable guidelines of the Individual financing agency. The Bank-financed
components would be procured as followss (a) contracts for civil works
estimated to cost US$500,000 or more, and eauipment and material purchase
costing US$50,00 or more would be procured ;hrough international
competitive bidding (ICB; total estimated value - US$3.9 million); (b)
local competitive bidding (LCB), acceptable to the Bank Group, would be
used to award contracts below these limits (total estimated value - US$0.9
million); however, for contracts of less than US$25,000, comparison
shopping (local and international) would be permitted on the basis of at
least three price quotations with the aggregate value of such contracts not
exceeding US$0.3 million. In the evaluation of ICB bids, local
manufacturers will be accorded the usual margin of preference (15% of CIF
price or level of tariffs, whichever is lower). Bank would prior-review
tender documents, bid evaluation and award recommendation for all contracts
valued at US$100,000 or more for civil works and US$25,000 or more for
mat2rials and equipment. Consultants would be recruited in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines. In the case of engineering supervision and project
management service contracte, however, sole-sourcing of consultants could
be permitted, as requested by GOSL, to facilitate the use of the same
qualified firm(s) by all cofinanciers -- an arrangement that should lead to
improved coordination and administration of contracts. WASA has also
agreed to the use of model bid documents of the Bank. To minimize possible



- 21 -
adverse impacts on the environment during construction, the specifications
for certain civil works would also include appropriate clauses under which
contractors would be required to avoid or minimize environmental damages.
Disbursement
3.37     The proposed Bank loan and IDA credit would be disbursed against:
(see Annex 12 for estimated disbursement schedule):
(a) Civil works - 60% of total expenditures;
(b) materials and equipment - 100% of foreign expenditures (CIF), and
60% of local expenditures;
(c) consultant services and training programs - 100% of total
expenditures; and
(d) amount} due for interest on the Bank loan until the completion of
the physical facilities - 100%.
A six-year disbursement period -- rather than a seven-year profile for
similar projects in the Latin American and Caribbean region -- nas been
used to reflect the need that the implementation of the Bank-financed
components should dovetail with the construction ot components financed by
the other donors (CIDA, CDB and OPEC Fund). The overall project could be
completed well within a six-year timeframe, as agreed among all donors.
3.38     Disbursements would be made against Statement of Expenditures for
contracts valued at under US$100,000 equivalent for civil works and
US$25,000 for materials. The documentation for the above would be retained
by WASA and made available to Bank staff during supervision. All other
disbursements would be made against norma documentation submitted to the
Bank.
3.39     The loan and credit closing date would be march 31, 1996.
Retroactive financing in an amount not exceeding US$0.2 million would be
provided in respect of payments made for expenditures after August 1, 1989
on consultant services (rendered in connection with engineering and
technical assistance program) and road works. Bank approval would be
sought for all retroactive contracts before bidding to ensure conformity
with the Bank guidelines.
3.40     In order to expedite project execution, a special account would be
opened in US dollars at the National Commercial Bank of St. Lucia to cover
eligible expenditures under the loan and credit. An initial deposit of
US$0.5 million would be made by the Bank Group in this account. Upon
presentation of withdrawal applications, the Bank would replenish the
special account (with IDA funds to be drawn first). The Bank would receive
a monthly statement of the special account which would reflect the
transactions during the previous month.
Progress Reporting, Evaluarion and Monitoring
3.41     Progress monitoring indicators in the operational, management and
financial areas are presented in Annex 13. The format of the progress
reporting system and an overall supervirion strategy involving the Bank



- 22 -
Group and cofinanciers have been discussed and agreed. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that WASA would submit to the Bank Group semi-
annual reports (due February 28 and August 31 for preceding six months
ending December 31, and June 30 respectively) on the progress of project
implementation, starting with the progress report for the six months ending
June 30, 1990. These reports would principally measure progress against
the monitoring indicators (Annex 13), the contracting schedule (Annex 11),
the project implementation schedule (Annex 10) and the disbursement
schedule (Annex 12).  Compilation of these reports would be the
responsibility of WASA through the PMU.  A project completion report would
also be prepared by WASA and submitted to the Bank group no later than six
months after the closing date of the Bank loan and IDA credit.
TABLE III-3:  Procurement Method and Disbursements
(US$ million)
Procurement by Bank Group a/         Procurement
Project                               Intl. & Local         Sub         by
Category                    ICB    I.CB   Shopping  Other Total   Cofinanciers b/
Civil Works                  2.5    0.5    0.3        -      3.3    17.1
(1.5)  (0.3)  (0.2)      -      (2.0)  (17.1)
Material and
Equipment                   2.4    1.1    0.1       -       3.6      4.9
(2.4)  (0.6)  (0.1)      -      (3.1)   (4.9)
Consultant services          -      -       -        2.4    2.4       5.8
-      -      -        (2.4)  (2.4)   (5.8)
Environ. Pgms/
Land Acquis.                -      -       -        -       -       (2.3)
-  -  -  -  -  (0.0)
TOTAL                        4.9    1.6    0.4       2.4    9.3    29.9
(3.9)  (0.9)  (0.3)    (2.4)  (7.5)  (27.6)
a/   Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the IBRD
loan and IDA credit.
b/   Figures in parenthesis are the total amounts financed by the
cofinanciers (CIDA, CDB, and OPEC Fund).



- 23 -
3.42     To facilitate the coordination of the various funding agencies
involved, CIDA would chair a meeting among the Bank, CDB, WASA and GOSL by
June 30 of each year to conduct a formal joint assessmn,nt of progress made
in regard to meeting project objectives and implementation targets. This
annual review woiUd cover all aspects of the project, with special regard
to the following: the institutional and financial performance of WASA, the
execution progress of physical components and the technical assistance
program; the status of compliance with the covenants of the financiers; the
performance of the PMU; and the execution of the environmental mitigatory
programs. The joint meeting will also discuss solutions to remedy specific
problem..s, as needed, and define the follow-up activities.
Operation and Maintenance
3.43     The operation and maintenance of the project facilities will be
the principal responsibility of WASA. With the proposed reorganization of
the Operations Department, and the undertaking of the recommended training
progrems, WASA should be able to enhance its capabilities to operate and
maintain systems in a more efficient manner than at present. Areas
requiring WASA's future attention include: water distribution,
comprehensive preventive maintenance of facilities, and improved operation
of sewerage facilities. The relevant training programs for these
requirements are included under the technical assistarnce component of the
project. Funds have been provided under the project to assist WASA with
the purchase of 0 & M equipment in the areas of leakage detection and
control, telemetry and communications, and watershed management. With
regard to the dam and reservoir operations and maintenance, CIDA is taking
measures to ensure that WASA will have a specific maintenance and training
program to be put in place shortly before the completion of dam
construction. To ensure dam safety and proper maintenance, the Bank Group
obtained assurances from WASA during negotiations that the dam would be
periodically inspected at least once a year in accordance with sound
engineering practices in order to determine whether there are any
deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or in the quality of
maintenance or methods of operations of the eame, which may endanger their
safety.
Environmental Impact
3.44     The proposed reservoir site lies within the rugged interior of
St. Lucia. The area has extreme topography, heavy forest cover and high
rainfall. The watershed area above the dam site is mainly designated as
Forest Reserve and is protected by law. Only a limited number of persons
live in the watershed above the reservoir. The major environmental issues,
likely to be associated with reservoir development in the Roseau Basin have
been identified and mitigatory measures, including the required
construction supervision and environmental monitoring programs, have been
detailed under CIDA's supervision. A summary of the potential
environmental issues arising from dam construction and proposed control
measures, together with an implementation schedule, is presented in Annex
14.
3.45     Principally, the potential is3ues relate to the following;  (a)
risk of increasing levels of schistosomiasis - mitigatory measures include
prohibition of human access to the watershed and reservoir; a schisto
surveillance monitoring program (river and residents) before, during and
after the construction of the dam; and a control and eradication program



- 24 -
for the host snail population using several alternatives, including
biological controls; (b) considerations of terrain protection from the view
points of reservoir slope stability and siltation, quarry sites and spoil
disposal - measures include the maintenance and enhancement of the existing
forest cover. An environmental engineer (CIDA-financed) will work with the
dam contractor to assist in the implementation of measures to lessen impact
arising from construction activities; and (c) impact on the hydrology of
the Roseau river - provision has been made in the des4an to release water
continuously for existing downstream uses and the aes hetics of the river.
A routine monitoring program has also been recommended for reservoir water
quality and downstream river water quality.
3.46     As noted earlier, (para. 3.32), the concerned line agencies of
GOSL would implement the required monitoring and control program. Because
of the concern regarding the preservation of the reservoir water quality, a
complete ban on agriculture in the watershed basin has been reconmmended.
To accomplish this, WASA would have to acquire approximately 180 acres of
privately-owned land which would then be reforested. In this connection,
about 42 families would need to be relocated with compensation and land.
Most families would be relocated to the St. Lucia Model Farms, downstream
of the dam site, where they would pursue agricultural activities similar to
their current activities. To further facilitate WASA's direct control of
the watershed, GOSL would vest in WASA the ownership of some 3,900 acres of
Forest Reserve. Agreement was reached between the GOSL and CIDA that both
the private land purchase and the transfer of the Crown land would be
accomplished by mid-1990.
3.47     With regard to the impact of the incremental wastewater generation
resulting from the proposed Roseau dam water supply scheme, it is estimated
that a substantial portion of the additional sewage would be disposed
through septic tanks or leach pits which are currently in common use in the
project area. In the absence of appreciable ground water, the impact of
above disposal on water supply is minimal. With the proposed Rodney Bay
sewerage scheme (to be implemented 1990-92) and the Castries sewerage
scheme (likely to be initiated in 1995), piped sewage collection and
treatment should improve and any direct discharge of untreated wastewater
in the Northwest coastal waters would become less likely. The Ministry of
Health should also continue to monitor pollution of coastal waters, with
assistance from the Caribbean Environmental Health Institute, which has
been involved in similar studies on the island.
EcoAomic Benefits and Justification
3.48     The proposed project would expand the capacity of the water supply
system, satisfy the increased demand in the northern and western parts of
St. Lucia and assure adequate supply in the dry season through the year
2025 (the reservoir is sufficient to withstand a drought of five months
duration, which statistically occurs every ten years on the average). The
project will allow continued growth of tourism, industry and commerce, and
increase the standard of living and improve health conditions for the
general population, which is expected to double by 2025. The increase in
tourism is of special importance: gross receipts from tourism amounted to
US$60.6 million in 1987, up from US$44.3 million in 1985. The 1987 net
receipts from tourism (US$43.6 million) represent a third of all exports of
goods and services. With the tourism industry still relatively small



- 25 -
(2,700 hotel beds) a doubling of the capacity is planned by 1995. It is
expected that by then, tourism will surpass agriculture as the major
export earner.
3.49     The project is the least-cost solution to the need to satisfy the
water demand in the project area. A comparison was carried out (Annex 15,
Tables 1 and 2) between the cost of the proposed project, the cost of
importing water by ships from Dominica, and the cost of desalination of sea
water. The results show that the net present value of the costs associated
with water imports are 65% higher, and those of desalination over two and a
half times higher, than the cost of producing water through the proposed
project. The proposed project will also result in a reduction in unit cost
of power (due to less need for pumping) and chemicals (because of higher-
quality raw water). When compared with the second best alternative, the
project yields a 15% internal rate of return (Annex 15, Table 2). This
return is underestimated because water is assumed purchased in Dominica at
its production cost, while a recent consultant study recommended that
Dominica charge double that amount. Finally, the economic return is
measured against the full investment cost. In fact, given that about half
of the total project cost is financed by grant funds which are tied to the
project, the true economic cost of the project to St. Lucia is limited to
the non-grant element; when measured against this element alone, the
economic return is 21%. An investigation was also conducted into the
viability of building a small (200 kw) hydro plant to satisfy the power
requirement of the project and using water from the reservoir for
irrigation of the nearby St. Lucia Model Farms, a 750-acre agricultural
settlement scheme. The return on both investments exceeds 30% and the
Government is being en^ouraged to follow on these components. (It was
indicated during loan negotiations that the CIDA-financed dam component
would also include the recommended hydro-electric scheme. With regard to
the irrigation scheme, however, no definitive arrangements have been made
even though GOSL would explore the scheme with the St. Lucia Model Form in
the near future). Further benefits are expected from the institutional
improvements asseciated with the technical assistance component, but these
benefits could not be quantified.
3.50     An examination of the first year economic benefits shows an
economic return of about 9% for 1995, the first year for which the project
is in full operation. This, together with the fact that the grant element
is tied to project completion in coming years, argues against any major
delay in construction of the dam. The feasibility of staging the dam
construction was also looked at; cost savings were insignificant (about 3%)
for a staged construction up to design year 2010 as compared to the
selected design year 2025. (para. 3.06).
3.51     The existing average water tariff level is EC$ 6.20 (US$2.30) per
1,000 gallons with a range from ECS 3.85 (US$1.43) for domestic consumers
with low consumption to EC$10.00 (US$3.70) for hotels. Comparisons with
other small islands show that St. Lucia's water charges are reasonable.
The rate for Barbados ranges from US$2.73 per 1,000 gallons for low-volume
residential consumers to US$3.87 for commercial purposes. Antigua's and
BahamLs rates are substantially higher. The typical water bill in
St. Lucia amounts to about 4% of the average salary of the lowest-income
group earning less than EC$ 99 (US$37) weekly; this share is considered
acceptable. The existing tariff level covers the short-run marginal cost



- 26 -
(estimated at EC$2.3 per 1,000 gallons) even for the lowest tariff category
aimed at the poorer segments. However, long-run economic cost (estimated
at EC$ 9.0 per 1,000 gallons) will slightly exceed the average revenue
which is expected to reach EC$8.0 per 1,000 gallons by 1996. The reason why
WASA is capable of fulfilling all its financial obligations although its
tariff is slightly below long-run economic costs is the low amount of debt
carried against the existing asset base and the fact that about half of the
proposed project (CIDA9s portion) would be financed through an interest
free loan.
3.52     The three variables which affect the economic return on the
project are: investment costs, water demand, and alternative shipping
costs. An examination was made to scrutinize the rate of return under more
unfavorable conditions for the three variables cited above. The results
are summarized below:
Return On Investment Cost
Best     Irnvestment Cost   Shipping Costs  Water Demand
Estimate        +20%               -20%            -10%
Grant included        15%           13%                13%             13%
Grant excluded        21%           20%                19%             18%
Risks
3.53     As discussed in the financial section, some risks are associated
with the high level of debt assumed by the entity to finance this project.
The Government's ability to defer WASA's payment on CIDA's debt in the
event of an unforeseen setback without incurring any out-of-pocket costs,
mitigates against such risk. Also, somewhat higher water rates could be
put into effect if necessary. Finally, the burden of debt payment will be
reduced relative to other items over the years. A second major risk is
WASA's limited implementation ability to carry out the large size project.
The establishment of a separate project unit (PMU), engagement of qualified
consultants, and the technical assistance component would minimize this
risk. CIDA would also have a more direct responsibility of implementing
the Roseau dam component and supervising the project from its nearby
Barbados office. A third major risk arises from the potential
environmental issues likely to be associated with the Roseau reservoir
development, namely, the recurrence of schistosomiasis, loss of forest land
and relocation of affected families. This risk should not be, however,
overrated in light of the GOSL commitment to the undertaking of the
mitigative measures as recommended. A joint ministerial committee has
already been established to oversee the implementation of the required
environmental programs. The proposed annual joint review of the project
issues by the cofinanciers, GOSL and WASA would also provide the
opportunity to undertake timely remedial actions, as necessary.



- 27 -
IV. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(i) GOSL would review with the Bank Group the project financing plan
soon after the opening of the dam construction bids, to ensure a
satisfactory financing of the dam and that it would continue to
carry out annually such reviews in the following years of
construction before new commitments can be authorized under the
loan/credit (para 3.09);
(ii)  GOSL funds would be made available in a timely manner for project
implementation (para. 3.10);
(iii) WASA would carry out an institutional improvements action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank group, within the agreed timeframe (para.
3.14);
(iv)  WASA would (a) conduct six months before the beginning of each
fiscal year an analysis of its estimated cash inflows and outflows
for the following two fiscal years; and (b) undertake appropriate
measures, including tariff adjustment as necessary, to ensure that
revenues would be sufficient to meet working expenses, debt
service obligations and the required contribution to investment
(para. 3.19);
(v) GOSL would establish by December 3i, 1991 a mechanism allowing
WASA to set tariffs so as to be able to also cover cash needs to
fund investments and obtain a reasonable rate of return (para.
3.19);
(vi) WASA would service all its debt obligations effective the Fiscal
year beginning January 1, 1990, and would reimburse GOSL over the
1990-92 period the amount owed to it for past payments made on
behalf of WASA (para. 3.19);
(vii) WI.SA's staffing (other than the staff required for the
implementation of WASA's new sewerage systems) would not increase
over its present level by more than 5% by the end of 1992 and by
more than 10% by the end of 1995 (para. 3.22);
(viii) WASA would maintain working ratios not exceeding 75% through the
end of 1992 and 70% thereafter (para. 3.22);
(ix)  WASA would seek approval form the Bank Group before incurring any
new debt exceeding US$1 million in any fiscal year (para. 3.22);
(x)  WASA would reduce the outstanding; accounts receivable to 110 days
by the end of 1990, 100 days by the end of 1992 and 90 days by the
end of 1994 (para. 3.24);
(xi)  WASA would reduce the amount payable to the power company to 60
days of billing by the end cf 1991 (para. 3.24);



- 28 -
(xii)  WASA would, by the end of December 1991, put into effect a water-
based sewerage tariff based on the recommendations of a m dium-
term sewerage study (para. 3.25);
(xiii)  WASA would, by June 30, 1990, contract consultants to carry out a
fixed asset reevaluation exercise based on terms of reference
agreed upon with the Bank Group, and in. .porate these results in
the financial statements for fiscal year 1991 (para. 3.26);
(xiv)  WASA would, by June 30, 1991, introduce an in-house computerized
accounting system in line with the recommended actions of the
Feasibility Study for the Computing Requirements of WASA carried
out by Wessex Water Authority, U. K. (para. 3.27);
(xv) WASA would employ independent external auditors, satisfactory to
the Bank, to audit its financial statements and would submit the
audited statements to the Bank Group noL later than for five
months after the end of each fiscal year; such audits will also
cover the Special Account and provide an opinion on the use of
SOEs beginning with the eudit covering fiscal year 1990 (para.
3.30);
(xvi)  WASA would establish and maintain a Project Management Unit with
staffing satisfactory to the Bank Group during the project
implementation period (para. 3.31);
(xvii) WASA would appoint consultants, satisfactory to the Bank. Group, to
assist the Project Management Unit with the technical
Implementation of the Roseau Dam Water Surply component (para.
3.32);
(xviii)  GOSL would carry out an environmental and resettlement plan,
according to an agreed schedule, including measures to control and
eradicate schistosomiasis, relocate affected families from the
catchment and reforest degraded areas of the watershed (para.
3 32);
(xix)  GOSL would allow the importation of labor of any type, if needed
by the construction contractor (para. 3.33);
(xx)  WASA would appoint consultants satisfactory to the Bank Group to
implement the technical assistance and training component (para.
3.34);
(xxi)  WASA would submit to the Bank group semi-annual reports (due
February 28 and August 31) on the progress of project
implementation, starting with the progress report for the six
months ending June 30, 1990 (para. 3.41);
(xxii)  WASA would ensure that the dam will be periodically inspected (at
least once a year) in accordance with sound engineering practice
in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the
condition of the daum structures, or in the quality of maintenance
or methods of operations of the same which may endanger their
safety (para. 3.43).



- 29 -
4.02     As a condition of Board presentation, WASA has obtained approval
for a two-stage tariff increace totalling 22% (compounded) for the period
1990-91 and has implemented the first year tariff increase of 13%,
effective Jrnuary 1990.
4.03     Completion of all necessary steps required for disbursement of the
cofinanciers' grant/loans, and execution of a satisfactory on-lending
agreement between GOSL and WASA for the Bank loan and IDA credit will be
the conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan and IDA credit
(para 3.10).
4.04     With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$2.5 million for 17 years,
including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate; and
an IDA credit of SDR 4 million (US$5.2 million equivalent) on the standard
IDA terms, with 35 years maturity.
r



- 30 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EXISTING FACILITIES
I. Existing Water Supply Facilities
Historical Overview
1.       The existing public water supply systems in St. Lucia have been
gradually developed since the first clean pipe borne water was brought to
the Inhabitants of Castries, the capital city in April 1848. At that time,
some of the better-off had their own wells or small rainfed tanks. The
vast majority resorted to the streams and rivers.  Piped uater reached the                D
town of Soufriere in 1902, and the Dernary community in 1911. By 1915, the
majority of the other toi.ms and villages had some form of simple water                   a
supply system.  At that time, the population of St. Lucia was about 20,000.
2.       The first expansion of the facilities in Castries took place in
the late 1800's, which included the laying of cast iron mains in the city,
intakes on headwaters of mountain streams some 8 km from Castries, sand
fil.ters at Entrepot, storage reservoirs at Entrepot and Bocage, and
facilities for the lucrative business of providing water to shipping.
3.       During the period 1900 - 1964, various waterworks schemes were
undertaken. These included works at Dennery and Soufriere in the first
instance, followed by works at Anse-La-Raye, Canaries, Gros Islet,
Choiseul, Laborie, Micoud and Vieux Fort. In Castries, with an ever
growing population, schemes to expand and improve the earlier systems were
undertaken from time to time by the Castries Town Board. The importance of
the forest in protecting water resources also became acknowledged in the
mid-1930's.
4.       In 1963, PARO developed a water supply improvement program and
recommended the creation of a Central Water Authority, which came into
being in October, 1964. The Castries Town Board finally relinquished its
responsibilities for providing potable supplies of water to Castries.
5.       The significance of bilharzia and the deleterious effect it was
having on the general good health of the populace was now gaining
significance. Further, a new tourist hotel was being built at Reduit, to
become what is now the St. Lucian Hotel, one of the biggest on the island.
The tourist industry was then in its infancy.
6.       By 1967, supplies to Castries and immediate vicinity were
inadequate to meet demands. The problem was exacerbated by the
construction of two bottling plants in the city, and the release of some 80
ha of land for residential development.



- 31 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
7.       From 1965 to 1985, expansion of water supply facilities for
Castries took place with assistance from the British government, the
Canadian government and UNICEF. CDB also assisted with a program to review
the status of water resources and supplies, principally for the northern
half of St. Lucia and Castries. This was followed by further assistance
from the Canadian government and CDB to construct new works to improve
water supplies to Castries and the north. Substantial improvements were
also made at Vieux Fort, to improve the reliability of supplies, notably to
the town and the nearby Halcyon Days Hotel (now Club Mediterranee).
8.       From the early 1980's, financial and technical assistance have
been used for implementing works to improve existing water supply
facilities and also to provide first time potable supplies to many rural
communities. Such assistance has come from the British government (ODA),
the Aierican government (USAID), rhe Caribbean Development Ban (CDIB), and
the Euiropean Development Fur.d (EDF).
Existing Water_Treatmer.t and Distribution
9.       Water supply to Castries and the north has been achieved through
three integrated systems: Sarot, Hill 20 and Union. Locations are shown
in Map IBRD 21809. A brief description of these is as follows:
Sarot
This is the major system and comprises source works on the Cul de
Sac and Roseau Rivers, a water treatment plant (WTP) at Sarot, a treated
water pipeline from Sarot to Ciceron, through Castries and extending
northwards to Cap. Capacity of Sarot system is 9.75 ML/d (2.10 MIGD).
Hill
This system is fed from a number of intakes in the Marquis River
Basin, both pumped and gravity. Water is treated at Hill 20 WTP with
distribution to Bocage and Castries in the west and Babonneau in the north.
Capacity of the Hill 20 system is 4 ML/d (0.88 MIGD) Drought conditions in
the MarqLis River basin can limit available water supply to approximately
2.2 ML/d (0.5 MIGD).
Union
This comprises a small intake and treatment plant situated on the
Choc River near Union. The booster pump station transmits flows to the
Morne Serpent/Balata areas. The Union intake and WTP is not in regular use
and is not viable economically. Its operation will be suspended
permanently under the proposed bank financed project.
10.      In addition to the existing WASA systems outline above, a new
supply is being developed by WASA on the Millet River. The Millet system
comprises an intake, screen chamber and raw water pipeline to Vanard,
connecting into the existing Vanard-Sarot line. The capacity of the Millet
abstraction works is 18 ML/d (4.00 MIGD), The system is being financed by
the CDB.



ANNEX 1
- 32-                          Page 3 of 6
Treated Water Transmission, Distribution and Storage
11.      The distribution of treated water extends by gravity from Sarot
WTP throughout mnst of the project service area and is integrated with the
feed from Hill 20 WTP.
Existing components include:
(a) Pipelines
(i)   Sarot - Ciceron
450 mm (18 in) dia., 9.4 km (5.9 miles) ;ske-offs to
Ravine Poisson, Bexon, Ti-Colon.
(ii)   Ciceron - Castries
450 mm (18 in) dia., B.8 km (2.4 miles).
$.i)   Castries - Cap Estate
350 rm (14 in) dia., 13.0 km (8.1 miles) Take-offs to
Castries City system, Vigie, Union, Marisule, Bois
d'Orange, Mongiraud, Reduit, Bonneterre and Gros
Islet.
(iv)   Sarot - Marigot
200 mm (8 in) dia., 8.0 km (5.0 miles). Take-offs to
La Croix Maingot, Millet.
(v)   Castries City System
Network of 100 to 200 mm (4 to 8 in) dia. pipes
serving urban areas oL Castries.
(vi)   La Pansee/Morne Dudon Systems
Pump stations and 100 mm (4 inl) dia. pipeline serving
higih elevation areas east of Castries.
(vii)   Ciceron - Fortune
Pump station and 200 mm (8 in) dia. pipeline feeding
network of small dia. pipes at the Morne.
(viii)   Hill 20 Babonneau
Pump station and 200 mm (8 in) dia. pipelines to
Babonneau and northwards.
(ix)   Hill 20 - Bocage/Ti Rocher/Forestierre
2 - 200 mm (8 in) and 150 mm (6 in) dia. pipelines to
Bocage 2.5 km (1.6 mi.), thence pump station and 150
mm (6 in dia.) pipeline to Ti Rocher; then pump
station and 100 mm (4 in) dia. pipeline to
Forestierre.
UJ



- 33 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
The existing large diameter pipeline from Sarot, through
Castries and north to the Cap was tested to assess its capacity and
condition. Internally, the pipeline in encrusted with nodules in part
due to lack of pH correction of the finished water, following
treatment.
(b) Reservoirs
The system has a total storage capacity of 14.7 ML (3.3 MIG)
in the project area which is adequate. The largest reservoir on the
system is at Ciceron and this is a steel Braithwaite tank structure
about 15 years old. It has recently been rehabilitated and should
provide up to ten years additional service. The other major reservoir
is at Choc, and this is a new prefabricated steel tank in excellent
condition.
Service Ca acity and Population Served
1".      Capac-ty of the existing waterworks tyntem serving Castries
and the north is estimated at 13.75 Mn4Jd (3.0 MIGD):
Sarot system        9.75 ML/d            (2.2 MIC-D)
Hill 20 system      4.00 MLId            (0.9 MIGD)
13.74 ML/d          (3.0 MIGD)
13.      The existing service area population is estimated at 67,000
of which approximately 60,000 people receive water service from the
integrated water system, either through individual connections or at
public standpipes. The remaining population is served by individual
systems, tanker truck or small rural community systems.
14.      The Water Authority has recently refurbished the Sarot WTP to
increase its capacity to 12 ML/d (2.6 MIGD). The treated water
transmission pipeline from Sarot to Ciceron has been similarly uprated
in capacity from 9.75 ML/d 2.1 MIG')) to 12.0 ML/d (2.6 MIGD) by the
installation of a booster pump station. This work has increased the
integrated system capacity to 16 ML/d (3.4 MIGD).
15.      The rated system capacities are related to the process and/or
hydraulic performance of existing treatment plants and pipelines. At
Hill 20, dry season source flows can reduce plant and system
throughput to 2.2 ML/d (0.5 MIGD). Similarly, the available flow to
Sarot WTP from the intakes on the Cul de Sac and Roseau Rivers can be
reduced below system capacity, to an extent depending on the severity
of the drought.
Assessment of ExistinR Water System
16.      The above description shows that the existing integrated
water system can barely meet demands under normal climatic conditions,
that is when adequate flow is available at the river intakes. When
drought conditions prevail, consumption has to be restricted to meet
available supply. During storm events, siltation and plugging of the
river intakes occur, and supply can be restricted until maintenance of
the intake structure can be undertaken when the river levels suo4ide.
Unaccounted-for water continues to be high, at about 33% for the
project area (even though it is considerably lower for the overall
island).



- 34 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
17.      The existing water system is in fair to average condition.
Measures are underway, or planned, to ensure capacity is sufficient to
meet short term demands, based on projections of average daily use by
all categories of user. The measures includes
- Upgrade Sarot WTP (complcted in1989).
-  Repair Ciceron 4.5 ML (1.0 MIG) reservoir (Completed
1988).
-  Install booster punp atation in treated water
transmission line at Sul de Sac (Completed in 1989).
- Test transmission pipelines, replace corroded section,
install air valves, etc. (in progress).
-  Expand distribution systms (on-going)
-  Carry out leak detection (on-going).
18.      The measures noted above will ensure system capacity
corresponding to projected average day demands in the year 1990.
However problems still exist due to inadequacy of sources during
drought conditions.
19.      Storage reservoir capacity is sufficient to meet existing
demands. The majority of the reservoirs appeared to be in reasonable
condition; most are of reinforced concrete construction.
20.      Generally, water distributed to the consumer has acceptable
physical and chemical characteristics, and is chlorinated before
discharge to the distribution system. However, lack of pH control has
had deleterious effects on the condition of the ferrous pipelines, and
the interruptions to supply and low pressures increase the risk of
pollutants entering the system.
Operation and maintenance
21.      Working under the directions of the Operations Manager, the
water production and distribution systems in the Project area are
manned by a staff consisting of:
1 Production superintendent
1 Superintendent (north)
1 Support services manager
5 S;ipervisors (north) with 6 others reporting
2 Production supervisors with 3 others reporting
3 Support services supervisor with 3 others reporting
1 Senior technician
3 Operations (Control) Room Assistants
II. Existin, Sewerage Systems
22.      The Water and Sewerage Authority assumed responsibility for
sewerage in 1984. Prior to that, sewerage fell under various
Government ministries and Castries City Council. Not all functions
and assets had been transferred to WASA by late-1989.  Some of the
larger hotels have their own sewage treatment packages plants which
discharge through short outfalls to the nearby marine waters.



- 35 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
23.      Within the project area, sewerage systen4s consist of the
following:
(a) Castries City Centre - approximately 7 km (4.3 miles) of
sanitary sewer installed in 1951 disposing of untreated
sewage through a very short outfall into Castries
Harbour.
(b) Castries Suburbs - approximately 5 km (3.1 miles) of
sanitary sewer installed in the late 60's and early 70's
discharging into the above-noted outfall. The combined
connections of (a) and (b) are 1200 residential and 180
commercial, serving 5400 people.
(c) Hotels - tinder the individual operation of the private
hotels there are seven package treatment plants. The
St. Lucian Hotel plant al-so treats, sanitary sewage from
a section of the Rcdney Bay Development.
(d) Rodney Bay Marina - privately operared package plant to
service the Rodney Bay commercial and yacht basin areas.
(e) Other Sewerage Facilities - for those premises not
connected to the piped systems disposal is by septic
tanks, pit latrine or bucket system and public
inst_.llations. Nightsoil is disposed into the Castries
City system and the collected septic tank sludge into
the poorly-functioning Union Treatment Plant.
Collection and charging is carried out by City Council.
(f) Union Treatment Plant - for the disposal of septic tank
sludge; consists of three digestors and sludge drying
beds, supernatant is disposed of by a soakaway system.
The plant is operated by the Ministry of Health.
24.      In general, the sanitation situation is not good in terms of
both collection and disposal. The St. Lucian Government and WASA have
recognized this and have developed a five-yetr capital program for
sewerage works. Currently underway is the preparation of a Master
Plan by French consulting engineers, for the Rodney Bay area, and for
Castries. The French Government has recently agreed to finance the
Rodney Bay sewerage scheme (1990-92), including a treatment plant.
Implementation of the Castries scheme is expected to be undertaken in
mid-1990s.
Operation and Maintenace
25.      Presently, WASA has six full time staff asaigned to the
sewerage sector, performing operations and minor maintenance. It is
evident that if the capital works program proceeds, an increase in
staff at both the management and operating levels will be required.



ANNEX 2
- 36 -                       Page 1 of 2
ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Prolect Area and Water Demand Estimates
Project Area
1.       The project area includes all lands within the northern part of
St. Lucia as shown in IBRD Map 21810. Its area is approximately 230 km3
(88.8sq miles), which is about 42% of the total area of St. Lucia. The
mountainous central portion of the island is located on the south
boundaries of both the stud-- area and the Roseau basin watershed. This is
the high rainfall area. It has rugged terrain, is generally heavily
forested and is very sparsely populated.  A high elevation spine runs in a
northerly direction In the centre of the study area, containir,g commun-ties
such as Forestierre and Babonneau. To the east are sparsely populated
lands containing large estates and farming operations. To the west lie the
developed lands -axtending northwards from Marigot through Castries to
Rodney Bay and Cap. 5state
2.       Within the project area there is rapid development of the tourism
industry, particularl' in the Castries and Rodney Bay areas.  Light
industrial and commercial growth is also evident, and new government
buildings, health centres, schools, etc., all require a high standard of
water service. In the residential sector, improvements in standards of
living mean demands for more wateir because of new construction,
improvements and plumbing additions to existing dwellings and increased
water use as lifestyles change.
Population
3.       The projection of the population growth is oased on a detailed
study conducted by the feasibility study consultants, financed by CIDA. It
assumes a moderation of natural growth rate from 2.5% p.a. in 1986 to 1.7%
p.a. in 2010, combined with a net out-migration at 0.5% p.a. The
projection shows an increase in population in the project area from 73,000
in 1989 to 116,500 in 2010 and from 74,000 to 86,000 in the rest of the
island over the same period. The total island population is projected to
increase from 147,000 in 1989 to 203,000 in 2010. (Table 1).
Demand
4.       The demand profile was analyzed in detail for 1985.  Total
production island-wide amounted to 9335 million liters (5.68 MIGD), with
4436 million liters (2.70 MIGD) in the project area and 4899 million liters
(1.98 MIGD) irn the rest of the island. Consumption for 1985 was 2928
million liters (1.78 MIGD) in the project area and 4260 million liters (2.6
MIGD) outside the area, for a total of 7188 million liters. (4.38 MIGD).
lor 1986, 1987 and 1988, desegregated data was available only for
consumption, while production and unaccounted for water was estimated
(Table 1). Total water demand for the project area is projected to
increase at 4% per year for the period 1989-96, and at 3% per year for the
period 1987-2010.



- 37 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
5.       A detailed projection of water demand within the project area was
prepared by the consultants and reviewed by the Bank staff. The projected
demand is desegregated between domestic users, hotel, commercial,
industrial and institutional users (Table 2). For the domestic users in
the study area, per capita consumption increases from 94 liters per capita
per day (lcpd) in 1987 to 124 lcpd in 1995, and to 130 lcpd in the year
2000. It was assumed in the above estimates that the existing suppressed
demand (10% by conservative estimates) would be satisfied during the first
2-years of the dam operation and that the demand would grow at about 1% per
year ill the f'llvwing period. Hotel supply in the study area is projected
to increase from 2520 beds in 1987 to 5000 beds in the year 2000, occupancy
levels to increase from 712 to 752, and consumption per bed per day to rise
from 760 liters to 800 liters.  Detailed estimates were also prepared for
industrial and Government users. Outside the project area, consumption per
capita is assumed to remain at its 1988 level (no suppressed demand factor
has been ircorporated).
!
Unaccounted for Water
6.       The percentage of unaccounted for water in the study area is
expected to decrease from 33X in 1989 to 302 in 1992 and to 262 1.n 1996,
with the introduction of a leak detection and control program and
additionel metering. Based on results achieved in two sample zones where
such programs were introduced in 1988, a target of 25% was adopted for the
year 1997 and beyond.  For the rest of the island, bulk sales are
substantial, and water losses therefore limited (20-252 in the 1986-88
period). Because bulk sales are expected to decrease in the future with
the introduction of metering, it is unlikely that water losses could be
further reduced; a target of 21% for water losses was adopted throughout
the period for the rest of the Island (Table 2).
Service Standards
7.       Service standards must accommodate the demands of the domestic
consumer, high class hotels, and burgeoning commercial and light industrial
use with a potentially increasing water use. This is recogrized by WASA
and its commitment to service recognizes the following taroets:
-    Abstraction and transmission of supply adequate to meet demands in
maximum use periods of the year.
-    Distribution storage facilities to provide for firefighting and
other emergencies and to balance fluctuating daily consumption
during 24 hour periods.
-    Primary and secondary distribution pipe networks adequate to
distribute water to all communities.
-    Minimum residual pressure of 15 setres (20 psi) available during
high demand periods.
-    Fuller compliance with the World Health Standards for treated
water, particularly turbidity and color.
-    More efficient disinfection of all distributed water.
8.       The proposed project would enable WASA to meet the above
standards.



ST. LtlCIA: WATER Sl1PPLY PROJECT--SALES AND PRODIICTION OF WATFR 1986-2025
STUDY APEA                               PEST OF ISLAND                           TOTAL ISLAND
POP.      SALES  X UNACC. PRODUCT.   POP.          SALES  % (INACC. PRODUCT.   POP.          SALES  % UNACC. PRODUCT.
YEAR            (000)  (M1.LIT.)             (N.LIT.)   (000)  (M.LIT.)               (M.LIT.)   (nGn.)  (b.LIT.)              (H.LIT.)
1986                67      3172         36      49b',-      72      4199         21      5303        139      7371        28    10260
1987                69      3354         35      5161        73      4255         25      5672        142      76n9        30    10833
1988                71      3586       N.A.       N.A.       74      5014        N.A.      N.A.       145      8600        28    11874
1989                73      3770         33      5627        74      5051         21      6394        147      R821        27     12021
1990                75      3979         32      5851        75      5099        .21      6454        150      9078        26    12306
1991                77      4080         31      5913        76      5153         21      6523        153      9233        26    12436
1992                79      4186         30      598"1       77      5207         21      6591        156      9393        25    12571
1993                8t      4260         29      6000        77      5255         21      6652        158      9515        25.   12652
1994                83      4850         2.8     673G        78      5295         21      6703        161    10145         25    13439
1995                85      5439         27      7451        79      5357         21      6781        164    10796         24    14232
1996                87      5640         26      7622        79      5390         21      6823        166     11030        24    14444
1997                89      5849         25      7799        8n       5438        21      6884        169     11287        23    14682  1
1998                91      6065         25      8087        81      5470         21      6924        172    11535         23    15011
1999                93      6290         25      8387        81      5519         21      698fi       175    ln9         23    15373  X
2000                95      6407         25      86631        82      5567        21      7n47        177    12064         23    15710
2005               106      7592        ,.5    10123          84      5710        21      7253        1911    13322        23    17376
2010               117      8796         25    11726          es      5845        21      7399        203    14R41         23    19127
2015               124      9867         25     13156         92     6212         21      7863        216    16i079        24    21019
2020               132     10991         25     14655         97     6599         21      8353        229    17590         24    23008
2025               139    12194          25     16259        103     7006         21      8868        242     19200        24    25127
IHr
)4
_- :J



ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Demand in Project Area by Sector and Year
(million liters per day unless otherwise noted)
1987        1             199           2000          2005          2010
Population           69100        74900         84800         95200        105900         116500
Lpcd*                   94           97           124           130           137             145
Resid. Demand          6.5          7.3          10.5          12.4          14.9            16.9
Hotel Beds            2520         3000          4000          5000          5700           6300
Occupancy              71X          73X           75%           75%           75%             75%
Lpcd*                  760          800           800           800           800            800
Hotel Demand            1.4         1.8           2.4           3.0           3.4             3.8
Govt./Inst.             1.0         1.1           1.3           1.5            1.8            2.1
Indus./Comm.           0.3          0.5           0.7           0.9           1.1             1.3
Total Daily            9.2         10.9          14.9          17.8          20.8           24.1
Total Yearly**        3354         3979          5439          6497          7592           8796
Unnacounted            35%          32%           27%           25%           25%             25%
Annual Prod.**        5161         5851          7451          8663         10123           1:1727
*l Lpcd - Liters per capita per day.
*J in million liters



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 10
ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. Detailed Description: Part A of the Project
(Roseau Dam Water Supply Component)
1.       The components of the Roseau Dam water supply scheme are the
following:
a. Dam Components: These include
(i) Roseau Dam and Reservoir;
(ii) Roseau Dam pumping station;
(iii) Raw water pumping main - from Roseau Dam to Millet
junction tank
(iv) raw water gravity mains - from Millet junction to Sarot,
and from Sarot to Ciceron WTP;
(v) Ciceron Water Treatment plant; and
(vi Treated water main from Ciceron to Castries bridge;
b. Associated Infrastructure Components: These include
(i) the construction of the dam site access road;
(ii) upgrading of existing Millet road to facilitate passage
of construction traffic; and
(iii) provision of overhead powerline, from Vanard to dam
site; and
c. Environmental Mitigation Measures% These include
(i) facilities and measures needed for long-term watershed
sanitation and protection (including reforestation);
(ii) relocation of affected households (42 families) in the
watershed area;
(iii) long-term surveillance, control and eradication of
possible schistosomiasis infection;
(lv) environmental protection measures needed during the
construction phase (including attention to the St. Lucia
parrot habitat).
Dam Components
2.       Roseau dam/reservoir.  The proposed Roseau dam site is located on
the upper reaches of the Roseau River, approximately 0.5 km east of the
southern extremity of Millet village, some 12 km due south of the city of
Castries. At the site, the river bed is approximately 65m above sea level.
The proposed dam will be a concrete faced rockfill type into which will be
incorporated a reinforced concrete ogee crested spillway discharging into a



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 10
chute which will terminate at a flip bucket. The dam ytill have a crest at
elevation 105.5m above sea level with spillway crest at elevation 101.5m
above sea level. The dam crest will be approximately 216m in length, 5.0 m
wide, and will contain a vertical parapet wall 4m in height i.e., top of
parapet 106.5m above sea level. The spillway crest will be approximately
26m long, and is sized to accommodate a design flow of 620 m3/s, the routed
Probable Maximum Flood, at a head of 5m above crest level. A river
diversion tunnel (4 m. dia.) will be built during the construction of the
aam.
3.       The dam will create a reservoir with a maximum water depth of
36.5m at full supply level, and a total storage volume of 3200ml (710 MIG).
The reservoir will have a surface area of 24ha (60 acres), will extend
1.85km from the dam to the upstream limit, and will have a maximum width of
260m at full supply level. The reservoir is designed to meet the water
demand of the project area through the year 2025, against a drought of 5
months duration and having a recutrrence interval of 10 years.
4.       Roseau dam pumping station.  A raw water pumping station will be
constructed at tLe foot of the dam. It will be used to pump raw water from
the dam to a junction tank in Millet village, via a pipeline 600mm dia.,
1900m in length. The pumping station will be constructed in three phases.
Phase 1 in 1991 will have pumping capacity of 24ML/d, Phase 2 (1999) will
increase pumping capacity to 35ML/d, and Phase 3 (2009) will increase
pumping capacity to 42ML/d.
5.       The pumping station building will be approximately 22m x lOm,
comprising masonry construction on a piled reinforced concrete foundation
slab. It will ultimately house 6 pumps, installed capacity 650kw.
6.       Raw water pumping main.  (dam - Millet junction tank).  A raw
water pumping main 600mm dia., 1900m long will be used to convey water from
the foot of Roseau dam, to a junction tank in Millet village. The pipeline
route will follow the route of the dam site access road for the most part.
A 250m section of the pipeline route will be in tunnel or deep cut. From
the pumping station, elevation 70m, the water will be pumped through a lift
of 90m to the junction tank, where it will mix with gravity flow from the
Millet system.
7.       Raw water gravity mains.  (Millet - Ciceron).  T :om the junction
tank at Millet, water from Roseau reservoir and the Millet River system
will join to flow under gravity in a 600mm dia., 4,900 m long welded steel
pipeline to the Sarot WTP site, elevation 133m. This pipeline is under
construction (for completion in 1990) under the CDB-assisted Millet River
water supply scheme. The pipeline is sized to accommodate the ultimate
combined flows from the Roseau and Millet sources, but will initially
convey Millet water only to the existing Sarot WTP for treatment.
8.       Raw water transmission from Sarot - Ciceron WTP will be achieved
by construction of pipelines in two phases. Phase I will be constructed in
1991 and will comprise a 600mm diameter pipeline, 9400m long with a design
capacity of 24 ML/d. Phase 2 to be constructed in 1999 will comprise a
500mm diameter pipeline adjacent to the Phase I pipeline, with a capacity
of 18 ML/d.



- 42 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 10
9.       Ciceron Water Treatment Plant.  Proposals for water treatment in
the Project area within the long-term include:
* Refurbish Sarot WTP to ensure adequate performance in the near
term. (The refurbishment was completed in mid 1988 by WASA,
assisted by CIDA and UK). When Ciceron WTP is operational,
Sarot WTP will be decommissioned.
* Maintain Hill 20 WTP in the medium term. Review its role at a
future date.
* Decommission Union WTP permanently, from its present irregular
and uneconomic use role.
* Construct new water treatment plant at Ciceron.
10.      The new treatment plant at Ciceron will be on land adjacent to the
existing Ciceron reservoir. Detailed design of the plant, which is
conventional, comprising reinforced concrete tanks with a low mechanical
content, was carried out as part of the CIDA - assisted study on Roseau
Basin Water Development Program in 1988. The treatment plant site is large
enough to accommodate a plant capable of meeting the projected treated
water demands through to year 2025. Under the proposed Project, it is
proposed to construct a Phase I component in 1990, with a rated capacity of
22 ML/d.
The treatment process will include:
* Addition of chemical coagulants
* Rapid mixing
* Slow mixing (flocculation)
* Clarification (sedimentation)
* Rapid gravity filtration
* Disinfection
* pH correction of finished water (corrosion control)
11.      Treated water pipeline.  (Ciceron WTP - Castries).  A treated
water pipeline 500mm diameter, 3700m long will be constructed under the
project. It will have a carrying capacity of 20 ML/d, to augment flow in
the existing 4501400mm pipeline to Castries River bridge, where the
existing crossing over the river will be duplicated, thence to connect into
the existing 350mm ring main around she city center.
Associated Infrastructure Components
12.      Dam site access road.  At present, the proposed dam site is
accessible only on foot, or by helicopter. The design criteria for the
proposed access road from Millet to the dam site (1600m long) include:
*  Road surface width maximum 8.5m minimum 5.Om
* Shoulder width 0.5m
*  Maximum sideslope 0.6 horizontal to 1.0 vertical
*  Maximum grade 15 percent
*  Minimum radius 25m
* Single land road with passing places



- 43 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 10
* Roadside ditches on upslope side
* Surface - all weather gravel, no suLiace treatment
* Drainage - local precast concrete pipes up to 900mm dia. and
* prefabricated corrugated steel type culverts
13.      On completion of the works at the dam and quarry sites, all
vehicles, plant, equipment and materials will leave the site via this
route. The road will continue to provide access for WASA, LUCELEC and
Forestry personnel, in the normal operation of the reservoir.
14.      Uparading of Millet Road.  Plans have been made for reinstatement
and maintenance of Millet Road northwards from its junction with the access
road. At present, the road surface is in poor condition, badly pot-holed,
with eroded/fractured shoulders and some drainage problems. The road is
tortuous, steep, and is the only road to Millet village. The road will be
used as the route for all dam construction plant and equipment, quarry
plant and equipment, mate-ials, fuels and labor, in the mobilization and
demobilization phases. During the construction phase, almost all raw
materials e.g. rock fill, will be gained from quarries adjacent to the
river just downstream of the dam site. This means that construction
traffic on the Millet Road will be confined to daily transport for site
labor (peak labor force approximately 100), intermittent transport of
imported materials such as cement, steel, sand, gravel, fuels and greases,
mechanical components (valves, pipework, pumps, switchgear).
15.      Upgrading the road is in the form of minor geometric improvements,
provision of passing places and repair of the existing paved surface.
Provision has been made for additional policing along the road to control
traffic during construction.
16.      Construct overhead power line to dam site.  Electrical power
requirements at the proposed dam site were communicated to St. Lucia
Electricity Services Ltd. (LUCELEC). These are primarily for the intake
pump station. An electrical transmission line will be installed from the
llkv feed at Vanard to the dam site. A new power generating station in the
Cul de Sac Valley is proposed to be in operation by 1991 under LUCELECS's
present program.  LUCELEC is confident that this .-ill ensure a reliable
uninterrupted electrical power supply to the dam site.
17.      Power at the Roseau pump station will be 4i5v 3 pH 50 Hz.  The
transformer specifications and electrical installation details will be
subject to review and approval by LUCELEC. Reduced voltage starting will
be required. Work would be carried out by LUCELEC.
Environmental Mitigation Measures
18.      Purchase of private lands.  The Roseau catchment above the dam
site is 15 km2 in area of wliich 13 km2 is Forest Reserve. The remaining 2
bm2 outside the Reserve is Jested in the Crown or is privately owned. The
privately owned lands are alpproximately 73 ha (183 acres) in area and lie
entirely on the west flank -of the reservoir site. Currently, use of these
lands can be classified as comprising degraded forest mixed with
agricultural activities such as production of bananas, coconuts and root



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 10
crops, and tenant farmer squatter houses. Farming operations include the
use of fertilizers and insecticides.
19.      It has been decided to purchase the 73 ha (183 acres) of lands
outright in order to have full control of land use in the future. The
lands will be gradually reforested as the crop areas cease to be
cultivated, along with the degraded forest areas.
20.      Relocation of residents in the Roseau reservoir catchment.  A
number of dwellings at the southern extremity of Millet village lie  within
the catchment draining to the reservoir sito. A recent GOSL survey showed
the number of dwellings to be 42, housing 159 persons. The residents are
small farmers growing/reaping crops from their lots and the surrounding
area. Their presence within the reservoir catchment poses potential
threats to the integrity of the reservoir, namely:
* disposal of wastes
* infestation of the reservoir with snails which host the
bilharzia causing worm
* continued farming operations which encourage soil erosion and
involve the use of fertilizer and insecticides
* encouragement of human access to the c2tchment
21.      Accordingly, Government is making arran 3ments to relocate these
residents on higher quality land, at St. Lucia   del Farms, bordering the
Roseau River some 5 km downstream of the propo. d dam site with appropriate
compensation for disturbance through relocation and temporary loss of
earnings. This relocation program provides for the building of at least
equivalent dwellings as a new community (with roads, water, electricity
etc.) in the kModel Farms area.
22.      Reforestation of parts of Roseau reservoir catchment. As noted
earlier, 2 km2 of lands within the reservoir catchment lie outside the
Forest Reserve. These lands, vest.td iu the Crown or privately owned, are
described as degraded to slightly degraded rain forest interspersed with
agricultural activities. Land slopes range fr'u steep to sheer faces, with
only small areas of relatively flat land. High annual rainfall, high
rainfall intensities and high runoff coefficients on these lands require
that adequate vegetation be maintained to prevent rapid soil erosion and to
reduce the incident of landslides. Accordingly, it is proposed to reforest
these lands over a period of about 4 years using existing Forestry Division
nursery facilities. Replanting would be on a grid pattern, typically 2m
wide to give 2500 plantings per hectare in completely denuded areas.
23.      Water and sanitation facilities.  Provision has been made for the
construction of potable water, laundry and sanitation facilities in the
Millet area and in rural communities close to the Roseau River downstream
of the reservoir for the purpose of:
* protecting the reservoir from infestation by snails hosting the
schisto (bilharzia) worm; and
* protecting from schisto infection those residents who currently
use the Roseau River for bathing and laundering purposes.



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 10
24.      Monitor Roseau River for host snails.  A monitoring program will
be designed to establish:
* trends in the occurrence of the host snail in the Roseau River
from the reservoir site downstream to the sea, before, during
and after construction; and
* levels of infestation of the reservoir shoreline by host
snails.
* eradication of the snail population as rneeded.
25.      The program will serve as a means of assessing the success of
watershed control measures, particularly in the prohibition of human access
to the reservoir, reservoir shoreline and catchment, and in the provision
of community sanitation ficilities. At the construction phase, screening
of all labor at the dam s:.te will be mandatory.
26.      Survey for schistosomiasis in resident population.  A survey will
be carried out over at least a four year period, to determine levels of
schistosomiasis infection of the resident population in the Roseau Valley.
Monitoring will concentrate on school children in the 5-9 years age group
initiaJly.
27.      Wildlife Preservation.  The recommended activities include the
following:
* Clear reservoir site vegetation outside of breeding season,
notably of the St. Lucia Parrot;
* Limit excessive noise and disturbance during construction of
dam;
* Prohibit human access to dam, reservoir and catchment in
perpetuity;
* Continue St. Lucia Parrot monitoring program, to at least 3
years post-construction;
* Maintain adequate residual flow downstream of dam, to mitigate
effects on local aquatic fauna; and
* Establish aquaculture potential of the reservoir.
II. Complementary Water Facilities
28       A list of facilities. to be provided by WASA during the project
period to complement the Roseau dam water scheme, together with their
estimated costs and phasing are presented in the following table. Since
WASA has periodically upgraded the secondary and tertiary network in the
past -- with assistance from BDD and CDB -- a substantial part of the



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 10
distribution system is already in place to convey the additional water from
the proposed Roseau reservoir. WASA would spend about US$3 million
(outside of the financial scope of the proposed project) from its
internally generated funds to cover the expenditures for the proposed
complementary facilities in the project area.
COMPLEMENTARY WATER FACILITES
PROPOSED EXPENDITURE FROM WASA'S INTERNALLY GENERATED FUNDS
(EC'S000)
Tot 1  1990  1991   1992   1999   1994
1996   1990
Additional Service Reservoir      2400   180       0       0      0    1000   1000    270
Mains Renewal                     1261    46   108        66    102    876    875    2Z0
Mains Extension                    1885    99    50    200    150    210    216    416
Mains Replacement                   908   200    42       40      40    100    100    884
Pump Replacements Generator etc     570   100    80        -       -     76      65    200
Meters - Purchase and Installation   760   1S0   100    100    108    100    100    100
Trenching and Pipolaying Equipment   96    76    20        -       -      -       -       -
Communications Equipment           210    80    S0        89     S0      W0      8o      so
Others:
Motor Vehicles                     540    90    70        70     70      70      70    l0e
Office Furniture and Equipment     278    70    S0         5      8      40      50      s0
Union Stores Depot and Land         260     0      0       0      A       0       0    250
WASA Head Office Extension          60    60       0       0      0       0       0       0
TOTAL                     9S50  1060   500    500    500   2000   2000   2000



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 10
III. Complementary Sewerage Facilities
29.      A medium-term sewerage plan for the project area has been proposed
and financing committed by the French Fund, Aid and Cooperation Agency
(Caisse Centrale). The economic analysis and engineering investigations
were undertaken by the BCEOM-SAFEGE consortium. The early emphasis and
initial first choice was concentrated in the Castries area. Later, the
emphasis was transferred to Rodney Bay as the pollution problem was judged
more critical in this area. Rodney Bay has an accelerated development
program but has been unable to advance further because of the severity of
the wastewater problem.
Rodney Bay - Gros Islet Area Sewerage Scheme:
30.      Rodney Bay is considered a part of the St. Lucia northwest coastal
area. It extends along the coast from Choc Bay to the northern end of the
Island, excluding the Cap Estates. The Rodney Bay sewerage project is to
be financed by the French Government. The project area includes Reduit
Bay, Marina Lagoon and adjacent lands, Gros Islet including Masade and the
area extending to the Cap estates but not including the Cap Estates.
Numerous hotels, restaurants, housing developments, service industries and
marina facilities are currently functioning within this project area.
Wastewater facilities in this area consist of a combination of small
conventional sewerag conveyance systems and individual package treatment
plants at hotels, tourist resorts and marina, septic tanks, cesspools, dry-
pit latrines, communal bath houses and night-soil collection. Disposal of
wastewater effluents (of questionable quality) is currently by marine
outfall to the beach and near the ocean.
31.      The initial design-construction phase includes primary collection
sized for the 2040 year projected flow. Proposed installations include
approximately 2,400 meters of trunk sewers (160 mm - 250 mm diameter) 200
meters of secondary collectors (160 mm - 200 mm dia) and pumping to the
treatment plant. A multiple pond treatment system has been selected as the
most appropriate method of treatment. A total of 16.8 hectares has been
allocated for treatment. This treatment system will be constructed in
three stages according to flow projections. The first stage includes five
ponds in parallel-series operation. This stage will be designed for an
average flow of approximately 667,000 l/day. Each of the following stages
includes an additional four ponds. Discharge of the treated effluent will
be to surface waters or to an irrigation system. The treatment system will
include pre-treatrnent, monitoring equipment, maintenance facilities and
operations building.  The second stage of treatment is to be added in the
year 2000. A third stage will be added in the year 2020. The total
projected plant rapacity amotnts to 883,000 l/day.  Details regarding the
connected population, number of hotel bads and design flows etc. are
available in the Project Files (Annex 16).
32.      Estimated Cost.  The total cost of the system is estimated at
EC$15.1 million (about US$5.6 million). The projected investment schedule
and the phasing of expenditures are as follows:



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9 cf 10
- (ECS'000) _-_    _-
1990      1991      192    TOTAL
Secondary newer                     1,277     9g8      2,240
Trunk sewer                798      1,697      799     8,395
Pump station                        1,218    1,217     2,438
Road + pond trt.                    8,887    2,678     8,445
Land                       788                           o88
TOTAL                     1,586     7,968    6,657    16,101
About 95% of the project cost would be financed as loan to WASA by Caisse
Centrale under favorable terms and conditions (20 years repayment period
with 5 years of grace; interest at 3.75% per annum).
33.      Implementation.  The project is currently in the bidding stage at
the end of which the exact amount of loan will be determined by Caisse
Centrale to finance the project. The implementution period would be
1990-92, with WASA as the executing agency. Conditions of implementation
(similar to the loan covenants of the Bank) relate to the management and
operational aspects of WASA in the sewerage sector, replacement of the
existing "public health" tax with a water-consumption-based sewerage
tariff, installation of a sewerage laboratory and preparation of the
requisite regulations and by-laws. World Bank missions and Caisse Centrale
have already agreed to maintain consistency between the proposed sewerage-
related conditionalities in their respective legal documents. The
requisite training programs for the sewerage operations personnel are
included under the technical assistance program of the Bank-financed water
supply project.
Castries SeweraRe Scheme
34.      The existing sewerage facilities in the Castries area includes a
combination of collectors, five pumping stations, trunk sewers and short
outfall to the inner harbor. The hotels and one school use package
treatment plants with effluent disposal through short ocean outfalls or
directly to the storm drain system and hence to the beach. The remaining
Castries area uses septic tanks, dry-pit latrines, night-soil collection
and communal bath houses. A total of about 12 kms of sewage collection
network exists currently in the Castries area serving about 1,380
connections.
35.      Sewerage studies in the Castries area are being carried out by
BCEOM-SAFEGE, financed by the French Government. This effort includes land
surveys and sewerage facility assessment. A physical inventory was
recently completed to locate and verify sewer installations. The second
stage of this program was the marine monitoring survey. This was completed
during the hurricane season, 1987-1988. The purpose of this monitoring
effort was to define conditions for siting a new ocean outfall outside the
main harbor. Several additional ocean monitoring studies since have been
carried out during different seasons to determine the seasonal variations
of the marine environment. BCEOM-SAFEGE is currently undertaking an



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 10
analysis of the data collected to date. It is anticipated that specific
recommendations and detailed engineering of their study would become
available by end-1990 or early 1991. The Government of St. Lucia is in the
process of identifying possible donors (including the French C3vernment)
regarding the financing of the scheme. The Government has indicated its
serious committment to the Castries scheme during the loan/credit
negotiations and has further noted that the execution of the above scheme
would be dovetailed with the completion of the proposed Rodney Bay sewerage
scheme and Roseau dam water scheme in order to cope with the implementation
capacity of WASA.
F



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
List of Ecuipment (Part B of the Prolect)
1. Computer Hardware and Software Purchase
(a) Computer (mainframe)
(b) P. C.'s (about 13)
(c) Application Software (Payroll, Accounts Payable, Inventory
control, General Ledger, etc.)
2.  Leak Detectiwn/Meters
(a) Flow data Recorders (6)
(b) PC Computer and Plotter (1)
(c) Pipeline Locations (1)
(d) Dewatering pumps (2)
(e) Bulk meters (43)
3. Communication/Telemetry Equipment
(a) Radio Communication Equipment (8)
(b) Basic telemetry for the system
4. Vehicles for Reservoir Management
(a) Boat (1)
(b) Pick-up (1)
5. Workshop tools (miscellaneous, as needed)



- 51 -                         ANNEX 5
-51-                         Page 1 of 4
ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Technical Assistance Component (Part C of the Project)
A brief description of the proposed technical assistance is presented
below:
I. Financial Improvements Program Implementation
Scope:         Installation of a new computer, conversiox. of existing
systems and training of concerned staff (recommendations
based of Wessex Feasibility Study findings in 1987).
Oblectives:    To improve existing computing functions and capabilities
of WASA, and develop management information needs of
WASA;
Outline TOR:    (i)   Set up an overall implementation plan, based on
agreed recommendations of the Wessex Feasibility
Study (1987);
(ii)   Prepare the specification and tender documents
for the purchase of the required computer
hardwqare and software;
(iii)   Supervise the installation of hardware and
software; ensure the proper selection of
application software for general ledger, payroll,
accounts payable etc; and
(iv)   Train concerned WASA staff in the use of above
systems.
Estimated man
months:             About 13
Estimated
duration:            September 1989 - November 1989 (initial phase)
completed; and June 1990 - June 1991 (Computer
installation/operation phase).
II. Fixed Assets Revaluation Study
Scope:         Revaluation of WASA's assets by individual items and
training of WASA staff;
Objectives:    To establish an up-to-date asset register to facilitate
using a computerized system for annual revaluation
exercises; and to train WASA's personnel in the
implementation of above system.



-52-                            ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
Outline TOR:    (i)   Conduct physical count and establish a register
for individual asset;
(ii)   Evaluate replacement value and remaining life for
each asset.
(iii)  Recommend an annual depreciation rate for each
asset;
(iv)   Develop a computerized Fixed Asset Register;
(v)   Recommend indices to be used for revaluation
exercises; and
(vi)   Train WASA staff in the use and implementation of
above system.
Estimated man
months:              About 8
Est'.mated
duration:             June 1990 - December 1990
III. Operations Improvement (Training) Program/Training
Scope:         Improvement in engineering, operations and maintenance
activities of WASA.
Oblectives:    To develop standard operating ?rocedures in the
operation and maintenance practices of WASA; and to
provide technical advisory services to WASA in special
areas such as unaccounted-for water control, pressure
zoning, etc.
Outline TOR:    (i)   To review and evaluate existing operation and
maintenance practices of WASA, and identify
needed standards, operating procedures and
mar.uals;
(ii)   Develop a preventiv  maintenance program for all
aspects of WASA's operations;
(iii)  Develop operational schemes to improve the
standard of service to consumers (operation of
distribution system, mains replacement etc);
(iv)   Develop a maintenance training program for WASA
staff in the needed technical areas;
(v)   Arrange for specialized training for key managers
of WASA in the technical areas; and
(vi)   Provide management and technical advisory
services in specialized technical areas (leak
detection etc).



A7NEX 5
- 53 -                         Page 3 of 4
Estimated man
months:              about 24 to 30
Estimated
duration:             April 1990 - June 1994 (intermittently), (Note:
A twinning arrangement with a well qualified
water company is being proposed to provide the
above services).
IV. Sewerage Tariff Study
Scope:          Evaluation of sewerage tariffs, connection fees and
other charges and recommendation of more appropriate
scheme.
Oblectives:    To review existing tariff structure; identify capital
and recurrent costs attributable to sewerage operations;
and ensure that the proposed tariff would cover costs to
implementation of above system.
Outline TOR:    (i)   Review existing level of sewerage service and
identify the types of services provided to
customers, developers and other agencies (port
authority etc);
(ii)   Review the costs associated with the sewerage
activities of WASA (including septage har.dling)-
(iii)  Review WASA's Act and policies, identify any
constraints they impose on a rational tariff
structure, and suggest means of overcoming them;
and
(iv)   Develop a sewerage tariff, that is water-
consumption based (volumetric charge) and provide
an implementation timetable (a quick look at the
water tariff is also needed in thia context to
ensure that this tariff is appropriate).
Estimated man
months:              about 3
Estimated
duration:             July 1991 - September 1991.  (When the
investments for the Rodney Bay Sewerage Scheme
and proposed Castries Sewerage would be
established in a more definite manner).
V. Training Programs
1.       The major training needs of WASA can be classified broadly as
management, engineering, clerical and operative. The groups of individuals
who will be targets for training are professional, sub-professional,
technicians, and supervisors and operators. A tentative training program
was developed as part of the Institutional Management Audit of WASA in
1988. The study identified critical needs in the area of training
qualified engineers for middle management posts. The study also recognised
the importance of training financial staff in computer-related programs.



- 54 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
Efforts are currently being undertaken to prepare a specific train3.'g
schedule for 1990 and proposed schedules for the following years.
2.       The recommended training programs would include:
(a) short courses in waterworks and sewerage operations designed
for technicians; (all operations personnel as needed);
(b) short courses in computer software, such as spreadsheet
programming (about 10 candidates);
(c) short courses in the form of on-the-job training and
"twinning" for specialized workers in their respective fields
(about 5 candidates) and;
(d) fellowships for suitable WASA staff in business
administration and engineering at properly accredited
institutions of higher learning (about 3 candidates); and
(e) Laboratory training (about 2 for the sewerage laboratory, to
be installed in the near future); and
(f) Operations certification course (about 2 candidates to be
trained in the operation of stabilization pond treatment
systems).
3.       Training would be the responsibility of the Personnel Manager of
WASA, in consultation with other WASA management, and working in conjuntion
with the Authority's Planning Committee (to be established in 1990). The
training programs, will be coordinated with the Personnel Training Division
of the Ministry of Planning, Personnel, Train',ng and Establishment.



- 55 -                            ANNEX 6
ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Detailed Proiect Cost
Estimated Cost
(million)
Part        Component                            US$        EC$    x Foreign
A.   Roseau Dam Water Scheme
Al Dam Materials                            1.21       3.28      90
A2 Dam Construction                        10.49      28.33      90
A3 Water Transmn (raw, treated)             4.38      11.83      80
A4 Raw Water Pump Station; Treatment        4.85      13.12      75
Plant and Dam-associated Infrastructure
A5 Engineering & Supervision                4.50      12.15      70
A6 Environmental Programs and Land          2.04       5.51       5
Purchase
Sub-Total                                  27.49      74.22
B.  Equipment Purchase
Bl Computer/Software                        0.23       0.62      95
B2 Communication/Telemetry equipment        0.45       1.20      95
B3 Leak detection equipment/water meters   0.06        0.17      95
B4 Vehicles for reservoir management        0.05       0.12      70
and workshop tools
Sub-Total                                   0.79       2.11
C.   Technical Assistance
Cl Financial Management Imp.                0.28       0.75      80
C2 Fixed Asset Revaluation study            0.13       0.35      80
and sewerage tariff study
C3 Operational Imprvts/twinning             0.40       1.07      80
C4 Manpower Training                        0.19       0.50      60
C5 Future Project preparation               0.09       0.24      80
Sub-Total                                   1.07       2.91
D.   Proiect Management & Administration
Dl Management Consultant Services           1.21       3.28      80
D2 PMU Staffing Support                     0.31       0.83       0
Sub-Total                                   1.52       4.11
Total Base Cost (January 1990 prices)           30.87      83.35      79
Physical contingencies                      3.14       8.48      79
Price contingencies                         5.45      14.71      79
TOTAL PROJECT COST                              39.46    106.55



ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Annual Phasins of Project Expenditures 1/
(EC$ Millions)
190  1990   1990 1991  1991    19911992  1992    1992 1993    1993    193  1994    194    1994 I19s  1995    1995  ND
LOCAL FORE16 TOTAL LOCAL FQRE161 TOTAL LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL LOCAL   FORE16N TOTAL  LOCAL   FOREIGN TOTAL LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL TOTAL
A ROSEAU DAN MATER SUPPLY SCHEME
I DAI AND PUIPSTATION
a dasmaterials(cesent,rebar,valves)       0.00  0.16  0.16  0.00  0.49  0.49  0.00  2.30  2.30    0.00  0.33    0.33    0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   3.28
0 4aa construction                        0.14  1.28  1.42  0.28  2.55  2.83  1.42 12.75 14.17    0.95  7.65    8.50    0.14  1.28  1.42  0.00  0.00  0.00  2N.33
c pusoing station                         0.06  0.23  0.29  0.02  0.03  0.10  0.06  0.23  0.29    0.23  0.93    1.17    0.02  0.08  0.10  0.00  0.00  0.00   1.95
suototal                               0.20  1.67  1.87  0.30  3.12  3.42  1.49  15.28 16.76    1.08  9.91   10.00    0.16  1.35  1.51  0.0   0.00  0.00  33.6
2 ASSOCIATED INIFRAStRUCTURE
a dam access road                         0.06  0.17  0.22  0.45  1.35  1.90  0.06  0.17  0.22    0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   2.25
b poer line                               0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.07  0.15  0.22    0.10  0.23    0.33    0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.55
c mallet road upgrading                   0.03  0.09  0.11  0.11  0.34  0.46  0.00  0.00  0.00    0.03  0.09    0.11    0.11  0.34  0.46  0.00  0.00  0.00   1.14
subtotal                               0.09  0.25  0.34  0.56  1.69  2.25  0.12  0.32  0.44    0.13  0.32    0.44    0.11  0.34  0.46  0.00  0.00  0.00   3.94
3 RAN MATER TRANSHISSION
a roseau-aailht line and tank             0.04  0.16  0.20  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.06  0.24  0.29    0.27  1.10    1.37    0.02  0.08  0.10  0.00  0.00  0.00   1.9
b sarot-ciceron line and tank             0.15  0.60  0.74  0.74  2.98  3.72  0.60  2.38  2.99    0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   7.44
subtotal                               0.19  0.75  o.9   0.74  2.98  3.72  0.65  2.62  3.27    0.27  1.10    1.37    0.02  0.08  0.10  0.00  0.00  0.00   9.40
4 CICERON WATER TREATMENT PLANT
a equipsent                               0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  2.36  2.36  0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   2.36   -
b cival works                             0.09  0.27  0.36  1.27  1.43  2.70  0.45  1.36  1.91    0.00  0.00    0.0    0.0   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   4.87
subtotal                               0.09  0.27  0.36  1.27  3.60  5.06  0.45  1.36  1.81    0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   7.23
5 TREATED MATER TRANSIIISSION
a ciceron-castries line                   0.02  0.10  0.12  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.41  1.65  2.07    0.05  0.19    0.24    0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   2.43
subtotal                               0.02  0.10  0.12  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.41  1.65  2.07    0.05  0.19    0.24    0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   2.43
6 ENVIRNIETAL NITIGATIOM MEASURES
a watershed land purchases
al cromn lan1l3900 acres sateshedl        2.05  0.00  2.05  0.23  0.00  0.23  0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00  0.00  0.oc  0.00  0.00   2.28
a2 private landliSO acre at millet)       0.15  0.00  0.15  0.30  0.04  0.34  0.15  0.04  0.30    0.00  0.04    0.04    0.20  0.02  0.22  0.15  0.00  0.15   1.08
a3 relocation                             0.10  0.00  .10  0.15  0.00  0.15  0.29  0.00  0.29    0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.54
b reforestation                           0.20  0.00  0.20  0.10  0.00  0.10  0.15  0.00  0.15    0.53  0.00    0.53    0.18  0.00  0.18  0.00  0.00  0.00   1.16
c schisto surveillance                    0.03  0.00  0.03  0.03  0.00  0.03  0.03  0.00  0.03    0.03  0.00    0.03    0.03  0.00  0.03  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.13
d sanitation facilities                   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00    0.05  0.00    0.05    0.05  0.00  0.05  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.10
e publ rel and misc proqrass              0.14  0.03  0.17  0.04  0.01  0.03  0.00  0.00  0.00    0.01  0.01    0.00    0.00  0.00  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.02   0.23
subtotal                               2.67  0.03  2.70  0.84  0.03  0.87  0.61  0.03  0.65    0.61  0.03    0.65    0.46  0.02  0.48  0.15  0.01  0.16   5.51
7 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION       0.00  0.74  0.74  0.00  2.05  2.05  0.00  5.40  5.40    0.00  3.44    3.44    0.00  0.51  0.51  0.00  0.00  0.00  12.15   rn D
TOTAL BASE COST PART A                        3.25  3.82  7.07  3.72 13.66 17.39  3.73 26.66 30.39    2.15 14.00   16.14    0.76  2.31  3.07  0.15  0.01  0.16  74.22
PHYSICAL CT1INSEMCIES(151)                    0.09  0.46  0.55  0.43  1.74  2.17  0.47  3.18  3.65    0.23  1.58    1.91    0.04  0.27  0.31  0.00  0.00  0.00   9.48   _ X
PRICE CONTINSENCIES                           0.20  0.21  0.41  0.51  1.58  2.09  0.85  4.67  5.52    0.66  3.32    3.98    0.29  0.70  0.98  0.06  0.00  0.07  13.06
1/   For expenditures by Agency,  see Item  (E) Annex  16.



Estimated Annual Phasing of Project Expenditures 1/
(CC$ MilUns)
190  1990   19SO 1991  1991    1991 1992  1992    1992 1993    1993   1i93  1994    1994    1N94 1995  1995    1995 6RAND
LOCAL FOREIN TOTAL LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL LOCAL FOREIGN TOITAL LOCAL   FOREIGN TOTAL  LOCAL   FOEIGN TOTAL LOCAL FORE16N TOTAL TOTAL
B UPERATIONS/IIAITENANCE EGUIPHENT PURCHASES
1. Computer and Software Purchase           0.00  0.00  0.00  0.01  0.21  0.22  0.01  0.21  0.22    0.01  0.12    0.12    0.00  0.06  0.06  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.62
2. comunicationiteletetry equipment         0.00  0.00  0.00  0.02  0.40  0.42  0.02  0.40  0.42    0.01  0.23    0.24    0.01  0.11  0.12  0.00  0.00  0.00   1.20
3.Leak Detection Equipsent/water meters     0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.06  0.06  0.00  0.06  0.06    0.00  0.03    0.03    0.00  0.02  0.02  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.17
4.vehicles/workshop tools/misc              0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.04  0.04  0.00  0.04  0.04    0.00  0.02    0.02    0.00  0.01  0.01  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.12
0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00
TOTAL BASE COST PART O                        0.00  0.00  0.00  0.04  0.70  0.74  0.04  0.70  0.74    0.02  0.40    0.42    0.01  0.20  0.21  0.00  0.00  0.00   2.11
PHYSICAL CONTINSENCIES                        0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00
PRICE CONTIISENCIES                           0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.02  0.02  0.00  0.05  0.05    0.00  0.06    0.07    0.00  0.06  0.07  0.00  0.04  0.04   0.25
C TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
I Financial Management lsprovetents         0.00  0.02  0.02  0.05  0.21  0.26  0.03  0.14  0.17    0.02  0.08    0.10    0.02  0.08  0.10  0.02  0.09  0.10   0.75
2. Fixed Asset RevaluatLon Study            0.00  0.00  0.01  0.01  0.06  0.07  0.01  0.04  0.05    0.01  0.02    0.03    0.01  0.02  0.03  0.01  0.02  0.03   0.20
3. Nlanpoer/Training Programs               0.00  0.01  0.02  0.04  0.14  0.19  0.02  0.09  0.12    0.01  0.05    0.07    0.01  0.05  0.07  0.01  0.05  0.07   0.50
4. Operational Improvewents/Tuinning        0.01  0.03  0.03  0.07  0.30  0.37  0.05  0.20  0.25    0.03  0.11    0.14    0.03  0.11  0.14  0.03  0.11  0.14   1.07
5.Semage Tariff Study                       0.00  0.00  0.00  0.01  0.04  0.05  0.01  0.03  0.03    0.00  0.02    0.02    0.00  0.02  0.02  0.00  0.02  0.02   0.15
6.Future Project Preparation Assistance     0.00  0.01  0.01  0.02  0.07  0.09  0.01  0.04  0.06    0.01  0.02    0.03    0.01  0.02  0.03  0.01  0.02  0.03   0.24
TOTAL BASE COST PART C                        0.06  0.23  0.29  0.09  0.35  0.44  0.12  0.47  0.56    0.15  0.58    0.73    0.09  0.35  0.44  0.09  0.35  0.44   2.91
PHVSICAL CONTINGENCIES                        0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00            0.00   0.00      I
PRICE CONTINIENCIES                           0.00  0.0!  0.02  0.01  0.04  0.05  0.02  0.07  0.10    0.04  0.13    0.16    0.03  0.10  0.13  0.04  0.12  0.16   0.60          V
D PRWECT IIANMENEIT AiD ADMIN SERVICES
I Consultant services(cea/peu)              0.09  0.49  0.56  0.00  0.90  0.90  0.00  0.a0  0.90    0.00  0.64    0.64    0.00  0.49  0.48  0.00  0.00  0.00   3.28
2 support st lucia pau                      0.12  0.00  0.12  0.17  0.00  0.17  0.21  0.00  0.21    0.21  0.00    0.21    0.12  0.00  0.12  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.93
subtotal
TOTAL BASE COST PART O                        0.21  0.48  0.69  0.17  0.90  0.97  0.21  0.80  1.01    0.21  0.64    0.85    0.12  0.48  0.61  0.00  0.00  0.00   4.12
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                        0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                           0.01  0.04  0.05  0.02  0.10  0.12  0.04  0.16  0.20    0.05  0.17    0.23    0.04  0.17  0.21  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.81
1I16RAND SLIURYIRt
TOTAL BASE COST PORTION AIB/C/O               3.52  4.53  E.05  4.01  15.52 19.52  4.09 28.63 32.72    2.52 15.62   18.14    0.98  3.34  4.32  0.24  0.36  0.60  93.35
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                        0.09  0.46  0.55  0.43  1.74  2.17  0.47  3.19  3.65    0.23  1.58    1.81    0.04  0.27  0.31  0.00  0.00  0.00   8.49
PRICE CONTlNSENCIES                           0.21  0.26  0.49  0.55  1.74  2.29  0.91  4.95  5.86    0.76  3.69    4.44    0.35  1.03  1.39  0.10  0.16  0.26  14.71
OVERALL PROJECT COSTS                         3.92  5.25  9.08  4.99  18.99 23.98  5.47 36.76 42.23    3.51 20.63   24.39    1.39  4.64  b.02  0.34  0.52  0.96 106.55
1/  For expenditures by Agency, see Item  (E) Annex 16.
I0N 
.4.'



- 58 -                         ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Institutional Review of WASA and Action Plan
In October of 1988, an institutional and management audit of WASA
was undertaken. The main findings are summarized below. The
implementation of the related Action Plan - based on agreed recommendations
- is attached as roted in the final section of this Annex.
Planning
1.   Sector planning is currently done for the short term through the
budgeting process required by Government. There is only limited
long-term planning.  The manaxeent audit study identified the
need for a Planning Committe  :aich would comprise top management
personnel and the Board of Directors of WASA. This committee
,would be served by the proposed management information system
under the Action Plan.
2.   With respect to budgetary planning, the present Finance and
Administration Department is short-staffed at the senior level.
Budgetary planning in the medium-to-long term is very limited.
The proposed Planning Committee, of which the Head of Finance and
Administration would be part, is intended to provide the mechanism
through which budgetary planning is organized and carried out.
Required raining in accounting and computer use will be
undertaken under the auspices of the technical assistance
component of the proposed project. (Annex 5)
Operation and Maintenance
3.   Generally lacking.  The system serving Castries and the North West
is overtaxed in all respects - source, treatment and transmission
inadequate, even for present demands. Supplies are intermittent
year round, to most if not all consumers, for various reasons.
The unaccounted-for water is curr'antly estimated to be about 33X.
Quality of treated water varies; frequent opportunities for the
ingress of contaminated waters into the distributions characterize
the situation. The terrain and climate are not conducive to the
smooth running of the system. There is lack of systematic
preventive maintenance, although there is an active leak
detection/control program. A long-term twinning arrangement with
an established water company would be the most practical solution
in addressing afore-mentioned problems. This is included in the
technical assistance component of the proposed project which would
also emphasize the related training needs of the 0 & M staff.



ANNEX 8
- 59 -                 Page 2 of 3
Commercial
4.   Customer files are continually updated.  The billing and
collection system is computerized. Large customers are billed
monthly while others, mostly residential customers are billed bi-
monthly. Current Accounts Receivables (mostly residents) ar! in
excess of 3.8 months. As part of the overall Action program, a
more thorough update of the customers file would be important to
determine any illegal meters, under-estimation of unmetered
connections, meters not read and meters under-estimating
consumption.
Metering
5.   The coverage of individual metering is about 60% of total
consumption (about 22% bulk-metered). WASA has an ongoing program
to install individual consumption meters for the rural areas.
There is lack of systematic maintenance and calibration of all
customer meters. This problem will be addressed under the
proposed project.
Tariffs
6.   Water tariff structure is of the Increasing block nature.  Tariff
increases for 1990 and 1991 were awa.ded in early 1990 to meet
operating expenses anc1 to provide sufficient funds to contribute
to investment.  Sewerage charges are based on the rental value of
the property and not related to water consumption. A new sewerage
tariff, based on water consumption, will be introduced, by end-
1991..
Financial
7.   Only General Ledger is computerized, but creditors, stores and
payroll are all manual. Due to periodic computer breakdowns,
reports and financial statements are late. Information appears
reliable. Weak in cost accounting. Improvements required in the
area of budgets, budget control and cost accounting. WASA
requires its own computer system, as distinct from continuing to
use the Government computer. This program is to be implemented
under the proposed project.
Administration and Personnel
8.   Current staffing is about 256 employees.  Productivity has
improved substantially in last years as number of employees per
1,000 connections has halved, currently about 13.0 Unions are
strong, which has tended to increase wages faster than general
productivity. Lack of systematic training, training courses or
training plan.
9.   There are some ongoing training arrangements with Wessex Water
Authority of the U.K. However, a systematic training program in
the areas of management, technical, and clezical functions needs
to be formulated. This will be addressed under the proposed
project.



ANNEX 8
- 60-                         Page 3 of 3
Other
10. Fixed assets were last revalued in 1982. No official revaluation
has taken place since that time. A new and complete fixed asset
evaluation is contemplated for 1990 under the proposed project.
11. There is general fire, public liability and theft insurance.
Internal audit almost non-existent but will be improved in near
future when the Action Plan is implemented.
Action Plan
12. During the course of the WASA audit, a number of management and
management-related issues have been identified as among the more
important which the Authority will have to address as part of its
long term planning for water supply and sewerage services in St.
Lucia. These issues relate to:
* Changes to top management structure
* Legal aspects of improved management
* Planning and policy making
* Information needs and data processing.
An Action Plan was formulated to implement the recommendations of
the study, as part of the proposed project. It was discussed during
negotiatLons and agreed as indicated in the accompanying table.



- 61 -                  ANNEX 8
Table 1
ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WASA Institutional Improvements Action Plan
(As agreed on February 21, 1990)
Item                                                               Target Date
1. Changes in Management & Structure
-  Carry out reorganization details               February - April, 1990 (ongoing)
- Reappoint Heads of z:ngineering,                February 28, 1990 (completed)
Finance and Administration, and Personnel
and Training
-  Set up Planning Committee                      March 30, 1990
2. Rules and Regulations and Changes to
WASA Act
-  Prepare Draft rules and regulations in         Sept. 1, 1989 - April 30, 1990
the area of sewerage, control of
discharges and pollution, and water use
-  Finalize above rules and regulations           December 31, 1990
-  Tighten WASA's authority for watershed         December 31, 1990
management through improved legislation
3. Additional Staffing
-  Budget Controller                              August 31, 1990
-  Senior Programmer                              September 31, 1990
-  Internal Auditor                               September 31, 1990
-  Distribution Engineer                          July 31, 1990
4. Management & Financial Information System
-  Install an improved information system         June 30, 1991
5. Training Programs
-  Elaborate specific training programs           April 30, 1990
in the managerial, technical, and
clerical areas for the medium-term
(1990-94)



- 62 -                         ANNEX 9
page 1 of 6
ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Financial Performance
Average Revenue per unit consumed
1.       The average revenue in 1987 was EC$ 5.48 (US$2.11) per 1,00U
gallons, or EC$ 1.20 (US$0.39) per 1,000 liters. For 1988, the average
revenue per 1,000 liter was similar at EC$ 1.18 per 1,000 liters. The
average revenue by sector for 1987 was as follows:
Sector            % of Total      Average Revenue per 1,000 Gal.
(EC$)
Residential                37.4                     3.8
Hotels                      7.6                     8.4
Commercial                  5.9                     8.4
Institutional               7.7                     5.8
Bulk Rural                 41.0                     5.8
Boats                       0.4                    28.5
TOTAL                     100.0                     5.48
While sector composition changes over the years in the study area
(Table 2), the change will increase average revenue per unit consumed by
only 1% p.a. This increase will be offset by the expected decline in
average revenue outside the project area, when more metering will reduce
the bulk water sales to the Government, Average revenue for WASA as a
whole was therefore assumed to remain constant through the period at EC$
1.20 per 1,000 liters adjusted for a tariff increase of 13% on January 1,
1990; 9% on January 1, 1991; and 10% annually on January 1, 1992-96.
Revenue Projection
2.       The revenues were projected as follows:
(a) water sales as given in Table 2 were multiplied by the average
revenue per 1,000 liters;
(b)   sewerage - the number of connections was projected and the average
revenue per connection was assumed at its 1988 level, adjuated for
inflation. In addition, starting in 1993, the revenues from the
Rodney Bay sewerage scheme were added by multiplying the expected



- 63 -                     ANNEX 9
page 2 of 6
consumptior. at the connected units (1993: 45.1 MG for
residential; 31.4 MG for hotels, and 9.4 MG for commercial) by the
average water tariff.
(c)   other revenues were assumed constant at EC$ 700,000 in 1989
increasing in line with inflation.
Working Costs
3.       WaRes.  The forecast number of water connections is for 22500 in
1996. The current number of workers (256) yields a ratio of over 11 staff
per 1,000 connections in 1996, a high ratio. Therefore, no substantial
increases in staff will be needed to handle the increased production in the
period under consideration and the wage cost has been incroased only 8%
annually allowing for 1% increase in staff and 1% real wage increase (Table
3).
Power
4.       Power costs per unit are expected to drop substantially due to the
conversion of a number of existin- pumped systems to largely gravity fed
systems. The existing Vieux Fort, Ravine Poisson and Micond Water Supply
systems will become largely gravity fed. The consumption per unit for
these systems, which account for 31% of total power consumption, will be
reduced by half. The Roseau project will reduce power consumption per unit
by 30% when it begins operation in 1994. For the system as a whole, unit
power consumption should be reduced by 10% by 1991 and 27% by 1996. Cost
of power per unit is expected to increase by 6% annually (in line with
inflation) (Table 3).
Chemicals
5.       The new gravity systems being installed in the rural areas and the
installation of the Millet system (currently financed by the CDB), as well
as the proposed project, will result in better quality water (more upstream
sources). The total reduction estimated for chemicals per unit of water is
10% by 1991 and 26% by 1996. The cost of cheaicals is derived by
multiplying the quantity of water produced by the index of chemicals used
per water unit and allowing for a 6% inflation (Table 3).
Maintenance
6.       Maintenance costs in 1987 amounted to EC$ 1.1 million or about
1.5% of the average gross fixed assets for 1987, at their estimated
revalued basis (ECS 71 million). Given some extraordin;ry costs in 1987, a
figure of 1.2% of average gross revalued fixed assets, observed in 1988,
was deemed more appropriate as renuired maintenance on existing assete.
The new project, however, will require less maintenance because of the
large share of the dam in total costs (maintenance costs on the dam should
be relatively small). When the project is complete (1995 and Seyond)
maintenance costs are expected to fall to about 0.8% of average gross
revalued fixed assets (Tables 3 and 6).



ANNEX 9
- 64 -                         page 3 of 6
Transport
7.       Transport costs are expected to increase in real terms in line
with water production (which increases by 22% over the 1988-96 period) and
inflation (Table 3).
Cost of Sewerage Operations
8.       Sewerage costs are very low (EC$ 148,000 in 1988) because of the
small size of the system and inclusion of direct costs only. It was
assumed that these cost will increase in direct ration to the number of
sewer connections, with a 6% adjustment for inflation. In addition, the
operating costs of the proposed Rodney Bay sewerage scheme were added as of
1993. They amount to EC$217.000, 242,000, 270,000 and 303,000 in 1993,
1994, 1995 and 1996; respectively (excluding maintenance and depreciations)
(Table 3).
Administration
9.       Administration costs were computed in two parts. For
administrative salaries we assumed a 8% annual wage increase (7% nominal
increase and 1% for additional staff). For other expenses, costs were to
increase in line with the production index and a 6% inflation allowance.
Bad debt was excluded from this item and shown separately (Table 3).
Provision for Bad Debt
10.      Bad debt was calculated at 2% of revenues for water and sewerage.
This is slightly below the ratio for 1987, which was biased upwards by a
one-time large write-off in the sewerage section, but above the ratio for
1988 (Table 3).
Depreciation
11.      Depreciation was calculated at 2.5% of average gross fixed assets
(on a revalued basis), starting in 1990 when a first revaluation exercise
is assumed to have been completed. From 1990 onwards accumulated
depreciation has been revalued annually by the assumed inflation rate
of 6%. Starting in 1995, full depreciation was also included on the Roseau
basin project. Starting in 1993, full depreciation was also included on
the Rodney Bay sewerage scheme (Tables 4 and 6).
Interest Payments
12.      Projections were made on a loan by loan basis.  For the on-going
CDB project, an assumption was made regarding the disbnrsement profile over
the 1989-1990 period. For the proposed project, IBRD loan carries interest
at 8% p.a., starting in 1994 (interest capitalized during earlier years);
CDB loan carries interest at 8% p.a. (weighted average) starting in 1994
(with interest capitalized during constrn :tion:; OPEC's funds are at
5.5% p.a. (no interest capitalized); CIr.,'s contribution is paid off
without any interest charged. For the Rodney Bay sewerage scheme, interest
is charged at 4% p.a. starting in 1993. Interest nayment increases from
EC$ 0.2 million in 1987 to EC$ 0.6 million in 1991 when the on-going CDB
project is completed, EC$1.2 million in 1993 when the Rodney Bay sewerage
scheme Is completed, and to EC$ 4.3 million in 1995 after the proposed
project is caupleted (Table 5).



ANNEX 9
- 65 -                         page 4 of 6
Balance Sheet Items
Loan Payments
13.      Loan principle payments were projected on a loan-by-loan basis
with principle on the on-going CDB project falling due starting in 1991.
Also, it was assumed that the EC$ 971,000 special loan due to the
Government, (the latter has taken over WASA's debt to commercial banks and
waived its rights to charge WASA interest on this loan) is paid in full in
equal payments in 1990-92. It was also assumed that in 1990-92 WASA pays
off the balance of EC$ 582,000 due to the Government for servicing two
outstanding CDB loans (Tables 4 and 7). The cost of the Rodney Bay
sewerage scheme (EC$15.1 millions) is paid off in 18 years with 3 years of
grace (i.e. first repayment in 1993).
14.      For the proposed project, IBRD loan is assumed to be onlent to
WASA 17 for years 'with 4 years of grace at 8% p.a. (i.e. first repayment in
1994). CDB's funds are onlent as follows: US$2.8 million for 20 years
with five years of grace at 9.3% (first repayment in 1995) and US$4.4
millions for 40 years with 10 years of grace at 7.2%. OPEC's funds are
lent at 5.5% for 17 years with 4 years of grace (first payment in 1994).
CIDA's funds bear no interest and will be repaid by WASA over 40 years with
5 years of grace (first repayment in 1995). IBRD and OPEC loan repayments
are in annuities, while CDB is in straight line depreciation. The exchange
risk is born by the Government (Table 5).
Accounts Receivable
15.      Accounts Receivable amounted to 121 days in 1987.  They increased
substantially to about 142 days in 1988 reflecting in part reassignment of
disconnection crews to other tasks. Receivables are expected to be reduced
to 120 days in 1989, 100 days by 1992, 90 days by 1994 and stay at that
level thereafter. The reduction in accounts receivables is a condition of
the Project Agreement (Table 5).
Accounts Payable
16.      Accounts Payable amounted to 153 days of suppliers bills in 1987
but increased to 181 days in 1988 because of delays in paying power bills.
Accounts payable are assumed to be reduced to 155 days by end of 1989, 140
days in 1990, 130 days in 1992, 120 days in 1994 and 110 days in 1996. The
Project Agreement requires reducing power bills in arrears to no more than
60 days by the end of 1991 (Table 4).
Inventory
17.      Inventory is assumed as a fixed ratio (100 days) of the expense
for maintenance, chemicals and transport. (Table 4). This is in line with
the figures for 1987 (101 days) and 1988 (108 days).
Prepaid Expense
18.      Prepaid expense is Assumed constant over the period at its 1988
level. (Table 4).



ANNEX 9
-66 -                          page 5 of 6
Work in Progress
19.      Work in Progress was projected based on the expected
implementation profile of the on-going CDB loan (through 1990) the proposed
project (over the 1990-1994 period), the Rodney Bay sewerage scheme
(1990-92), and other investments. The work in progress is transferred to
Gross Fixed Assets in the year in which the project is completed (Tables 4,
6 and 8).
Gross Fixed Assets
20.      Gross fixed assets were forecast based on existing assets and the
expected years in which the on-going CDB project (1990), the Rodney Bay
sewerage scheme (1992) and the proposed project (1994) are expected to be
incorporated into the balance sheet. It was also assumed that other
investments will amount to EC$ 2.7 million in 1989, ECS 2 million in 1990,
EC$ 1 million per year from 1991 throughll993 and EC$ 3 million thereafter
(Table 8).
21.      An asset revaluation is introduced in 1990 (the first since 1981)
with fixed assets increasing by 43% to reflect inflation since the last
revaluation exercise. Assets are revalued at 6% p.a. thereafter in line
with expected inflation.
Accumulated Depreciation
22.      Accumulated Depreciation includes the same adjustments for
revaluation as gross fixed assets. Also, starting with the first year of
revaluation (1990) annual depreciation charges were calculated as 2.5% of
average outstanding gross revalued assets during the year (Table 6).
Current Portion - Long Term Loans
23.      This represents the portion of long term loans which will be
repaid over the next 12-ronths period and is based on the individual loans'
repayment schedules (Table 4).
Equity
24.      Within equity, Contributed Capital reflects contribution from the
Government and from Donors. Appraisal Surplus reflects results of
revaluation of assets and Accumulated Surplus reflects cumulative net
income (loss) from operations (Table 4).
Cash Flow Items
Investments
25.      Investments were assumed as followss  the on-going CDB loan will
disburse through 1990, the Rodney Bay sewerage scheme will be implemented
in 1990-92 and investment in the proposed project will take place over tne
1990-94 period (Table 6). Other investments are assumed as stated in para.
20 above.



- 67 -                   ANNEX 9
page 6 of 6
Investment Financing Sources
26.      These resources were derived from disbursement forecast for the
on-going CDB lcsn and the proposed project loans. Also, a capital
contribution from the Government of EC$ 11.4 million over the 1990-93
period was assumed for the project under consideration. In addition, we
included an additional contribution from Government and other Donors for
other investments of EC$ 1.5 million in 1989, EC$ 1 million in 1990, EC$
0.5 million per year from 1991 through 1993 and EC$ I million thereafter.
Finally, the Rodney Bay sewerage scheme is assumed to be fully funded by
French aid (Table 6).
Other Items
27.      Inflation is assumed at 6% throughout the projection period.
28.      The rate of exchange has been pegged at US$ 1 - EC$ 2.7.



ST. LUCIA - WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENT-ACTUAL FOR 1987-1988 AND PROJECTION FOR 1989-1996 (ECS '000)
1987     1988     1989     1990    1991      1992    1993      1994     1945    1996
Revenues
Water                   9171    10129    10585    12310    13647    15272   17017   19958   23363   26256
Sewarage                 591      617      662      712      765      822    1837      2129     2480    2899
Other                    821      663      700      742      787      834      884      937      993    1053
...........................................~~~~~~~....  . .. . . ....... .. .. . .. . . . . ..
Total Reverues         10583    11409    11947    13764    15198    16927   19738    23024    26835   30207
Working Costs
SaLaries-Water          2440     2668     2881     3112    3361      3630    3920    4234       4572    4938
Power-Water             1747     1897     2036     2073    2163      2286    2555      2690     2832    2987
Chem.cals-Water          429      515      553      563      587      621      653      747      788      833
Maintenance-W&S         1154      941      994     1097    1431      1620    1820      2165     2285    2434                                            Cs
Transport-Water          388      483      518      567      602      646      689      775      870      936                                           Go
Direct Costs-Sewer       167      148      159      171      184      198      432      468      515      563
Acdinistration          2118     2072     2279     2466    2654    2856    3068    3375         3710    4000
Prov. 3ad Debt           231      139      225      260      288      322      377      442      517      583
Working costs           8674     8863     9644    10305    11271    12178   13513    14897    16090   17274
Depreciation            1116     1397     1522     2286    2982    3375    3791        5413     7139    7605
..... ........................... ................................................................ .......... .....
Operating Costs         9790    10260    11167    12592    14253    15553   17304    20310    23229   24880
Interest-Non Proj.      205       249      163      146      554      515    1068       996      924     852
Interest-Project                                               3       28      151    3111      3391    3241
Other                    689      215
~. .. ............. ....... .. ... ..................................
Net Income              -101      685      618     1026      388      832    1214    -1393      -709    1235                                         m >
NOTES: REVENUES INCLUDE A 9X TAR:FF INCREASE IN 1991 AND 10X ANNUALLY IN 1992-96.
THE ITEM "OTHER" INCLUDES FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND CAPITAL GAINS AND LOSSES.



ST. LUCIA - WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
BALANCE SHEET - ACTUAL FOR 1987-88 AND PROJECTION FOR 1989-1996 (ECS '000)
1987     1988     1989      1990     1991      1992     1993     1994      1995     1996
ASSETS
CASH (NET)               1812      863       805     1786      3209     5039     7263      5743     4220     4919
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE      3226     4166      3698     3924      4146     4409     4907-   5446       6372      7189
INVENTORY                1027     1140      1123     1177     1311      1417     1566      1747     1856     1970
PREPAID EXPENSE            35       79        70       79        79       79       79        79       79        79
TOTAL CURRENT           6100     6248      5706     6967     8745    10944    13815    13015    12527    14157
IURK IN PROGRESS         1152     7022    12672    10357    41357    71657   100557        1057     2557     4057
GROSS FIXED ASSETS      56677    64891    67591   115320   123239   146734   156538   276530   294622   313799
LESS: DEPRECIATION      19361    22232    23754    36255    41413    47272    53899    6254S    73439    85450
NET FIXED ASSETS        37316    42659    43837    79065    81827    99462   102639   213984   221183   228349
TOTAL ASSETS          44568    55929    62214    96389   131929   182063   217010   228056   236267   246563
LIABILITIES                                                                                                                                                    0%
,...................
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE         2516     3249      2776     2659      2819     2930     3156      3360     3466     3542
CURRENT PORTION-LTL.      274      274       884     1252      1618     1861     3024      5024     5286     5427
TOTAL CURRENT           2790     3523     3660      3911     4437      4791     6180     8384      8752     8969
LONG TERN LOANS(LTL)    6602    12608    16638    29686    59068   102607   128483   131559   126273   120846
TOTAL LIABILITIES        9392    16131    20298    33597    63505   107398   134663   139943   135025   129815
EQUITY
CONTRIBUTED CAPITAL    21836    25773    27273    28273    28773    29273    29773    307M         31773    32773
APPRAISAL SURPLUS       13378    13378    13378    32228    36972    41881    47849    54007    66846    80117
ACCUN. SURPLUS(DEF)       -38      647      1265     2291      2679     3511     4725      3332     2623      3858
NET EQUITY             35176    39798    41916    62791    68424    74665    82347    88112   101242   116748
TOTAL LIAB. & EQ.       44568    55929    62214    96389   131929   182063   217010   228056   236267   246563
NOTES: CASH FIGURE IS NET OF OVERDRAFT LIABILITY; WORK IN PROGRESS INCLUDES DEFERRED CHARGES.



ST. LUCIA - WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CASH FLOW STATEMENT - ACTUAL FOR 1987-88 AND PROJECTION FOR 1989-1996 ( ECS '000 )
1987     1988     1989      1990     1991      1992     1993      1994     1995     1996
SOURCES
NET INCOME               -101      685       618     1026       388      832      1214    -1393     -709      1235
ADD: DEPRECIATION        1116     1397      1522     2286      2982     3375     3791      5413     7139      7605
INC.ACCOUNTS PAYABLE      149      733      -473     -117       160      111      226       204      105       76
INC. L.T. LOANS           348     6022      5000    14300    31000    45400    28900       8100        0         0
INC.CAPITAL CONTRIB.      760     3937      1500     1000       500      500      500      1000     1000     1000
OTHER                     689      333
TOTAL SOURCES           2961    13107      8168    18495    35030    50217    34632    13324       7536     9916
USES
_....................
INVESTMENT               4003    12626     8350    16350    32000    46400    29900    11100        3000     3000
REPAY L.T. LOANS          337      332       360      884      1252     1618     1861      3024     5024     5286
INC. ACCOUNTS REC.      -1240      940      -468      227       222      263      498       539      926      817
INC. INVENTORY            -11      113       -17       54       134      106      149       181      109      114
INC. PREPAID EXPENSE        2       45
TOTAL USES               3091    14056      8225    17514    33607    48388    3?408    14844       9059     921?
CASH - BEGINNING         1942     1812       863      805      1786     3209     5039      7263     5743     4220
CASH - END OF PERIOD    1812       863       805     1786     3209      5039     7263      5743     4220     4919
MONITORING INDICATORS
WORKING RATIO-%            82       78        81       75        74       72       68        65       60       57
OPERATING RATIO-%          93       90        93       91        94       92       88        88       87       82                                         '-X
DEST SERVICE RATIO-%      352      438       440      336       217      220      202       114      115      138
CUIRRENT RATIO-X          219      177       156      178       197      228      224       155      143      158
DEBT-TO-EQUITY RATIO       27       41        48       54        93      144      164       159      133      111
DAYS RECEIVABLE           121      142       120      110       105      100       95        90       90       90
RETURN ON ASSETS-%          2        3         2        1         1        1        2         1        2        2
NOTES:RETURN ON ASSETS IN 1987-1989 IS BASED ON HISTORICAL COSTS.
OTHER SOURCES INCLUDE FOREIGN EXCHANGE LOSSES (+) AND GAINS (-).



ST. LLUCIA - WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
FIXED ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION - ACTUAL 1987-88 AND PROJECTED FOR 1989-1996 (ECS '000)
1987     1988     1989     1990     1991     1992      1993    1994      1995     1996
GROSS FIXED ASSETS
BEGINNING BALANCE      53954    56677    64891    67591   115320   123239   146734   156538   276530   294622
PLUS: REVALUATION                4190              29064     6919     7394     8804     9392    16592    17677
ASSET ADDITION          2723     4024      2700    18665     1000    16100     1000   110600     1500     1500
REVALUED ASSETS-END   56677   64891    67591   115320   123239   146734   156538   276530   294622   313799
ACCMN. DEPRECIATION
ACCUM. DEP.-BEGIN      18372    19361    22232    23754   36255    41413    47272    53899   62546    73439
ACCUM. DEP.-REVALUE              1494              10214     2175     2485     2836    3234      3753     4406
ANNUAL DEPRECIATION      989     1377      1522     2286     2982     3375     3791     5413     7139     7605
REVALUED ACCUM.DEP.   19361    22232    23754    36255    41413    47272    53899   62546    73439    85450
NET FIXED ASSETS       37316    42659    43837    79065    81827   99462   102639  213984   221183   228349                                               F
AVE. GROSS ASSETS      r  16    60784    66241    91'56   119280   134987   151636  216534  285576  304210
WOTES:1987-88 ASSETS BASED ON HISTORICAL FIGURES; REVALUATION FOR 1988 REFLECTS TRANSFER OF ASSETS TO WASA.
ANNUAL DEPRECIATION FIGURES FOR 1987 AND 1988 ARE ADJUSTED FROM INCOME TO REFLECT ASSET DISPOSITION.



ST. LUCIA - WATER SUPPLY PROJECT : INTEREST PAYMENT AND LOAN REPAYMENTS (ECS '01)
INTEREST PAYMENT        1987     1988     1989     1990    1991      1992     1993    1994    1995       1996
CDR 1a ECS 767920         36       32       27       22       17       11        4
CD8 lb EC$ 1200Q0          2        2        2        1        1        1
CDS lc ECS 221980          5        4        3        3        2        1
CDB 2 ECS 4106896        153      142      131      120      109       99       86       76       65       54
CC8 3 uS$ 5500000                                            425      403      374      346      317      288
SEWARACE-RODNEY BAY                                                            604      574      542      510
SUBTOTAL NONPROJECT     196      180      163     1"       554      515     1068      996      924      852
PROJECT-IBRO                                                                           1645     1567    1483
PROJECT-CDB                                                                            1178    1552    1504
PROJECT-OPEC                                                   3       28      151      288      272      254
SUBTOTAL PROJECT                                              3       28      151    3111      3391     3241
TOTAL INTEREST           196      180      163      146      557      543     1219    4107    4315       4093
LON REPAYMENTS
................... ..............................                                                                                                     -
CDB 1a ECS 67920          52       57       61       66       72       78       84
CDB 1b ECS 120000          8        9        9        9       10       10       10
CDB lc ECS 221980         15       16       16       17       18       19       19
CDO 2 ECS 4106896        274      274      274      274      274      274      274      274      274      274
CDB 3 USS 5500000                                            360      720      720      720      720      720
SOSL   ECS 971250                                   324      324      323
GOSL   EC$ 581974                                   194      194      194
SEWARAGE-ROONEY BAY                                                            754      784      816      848
SUBTOTAL NONPROJECT     349      356      360      884     1252     1618    1861      1778    1810    1842
PROJECT-IBRD                                                                            958    1036      1120
PRMJECT-CDB                                                                                      383      511
PROJECT-CIDA                                                                                    1491     1491
PROJECT-OPEC                                                                            288      304      322                                        v W
SUBTOTAL PROJECT          0        0        0        0        0        0        0     1246    3214    3444                                         IJ %0
TOTAL REPP' 1..NTS       349      356      360      884    1252      1618    1861      3024    5024    5286
NOTE:  :JRES FOR 1987-88 INCLUDE PAYMENTS MADE BY THE GOVERNMENT ON BEHALF OF WASA



ST. LUCIA - WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
INVESTNENTS- ACTLUAL 1987-88 AND PROJECTION FOR 1989-1996 (ECS '000)
1987     1988      1989     1990     1991      1992     1993     1994      1995     1996
CDB NON-PROJECT_          409     7056      5650     3550
PROJECT-IBRD                                         1100     8700      4200     3800     3000
PROJECT-CDB                                          1200     5300      8400     41b0      400
PROJECT-CIDA                                         3600     5500    24600    15800      2700
PROJECT-OPEC                                                    100      800     3700       700
PROJECT-LOCAL                                        3300     3500      1800     1500      1300
SUBTOTAL-PROJECT                                    9200    23100    39800    28900      8100
SEWARAGE-RODNEY BAY                                  1600     7900      5600
OTHER INVESTMENTS        3594     2837      2700     2000      1000     1000     1000     3000      3000     3000
TOTAL INVESTMENT         4003     9894      8350    16350    32000    46400    29900    11100       3000     3000
INVF1TMENT FINANCING SOURCES- ACTUAL 1987-88 AND PROJECTED 1989-1996
COB NON-PROJECT_          348     6022      5000     3500
PROJECT-IBRD                                         1100     8700      4200     '800     3000
PROJECT-COB                                          1200     5300      8400     4100      400
PROJECT-CIDA                                         3600     5500    24600    15800      2700
PROJECT-OPEC                                                    100      800     3700       700
PROJECT-GOSL                                         3300     3500      1800     1500      1300
SUBTOTAL-PROJECT                                    9200    23100    39800    28900      8100
p2|
SEWARAGE-FRANCE                                      1600     7900      5600
OTHER SOURCES             760     1241      1500     1000       500      500      500      1000     1000     1000
TOTAL INVES. SOURCES    1108      7263      6500    15300    31500    45900    29400      9100      1000     1000
VASA INT. SOURCES        2895     2631      1850     1050       500      500      500      2000     2000     2000
ASSET ADDITIONS          3814     4024      2700    18665      1000    16100     1000   110600      1500     1500



- 74 -
ANNEX 10
ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Percent Cumulative Progress Completion Schedule
C O M P O N E N T             1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
A. Roseau Dam Water Supply
1. Roseau Dam
Roseau dam material                                 90   100
Dam Construction                                    40    90   100
Pumping Station                                      10    95   100
Roseau-Millet pipeline                              25    95   100
Sarot-Ciceron pipeline                        40   100
Ciceron-Castries pipeline                           95   100
Water treatment plant                         30    95   100
Design/Supervision                      15    35    65    85   100
2. Associated Infrastructure
Access road                                   85   100
Millet Road Upgrade                           60    60    60   100
Power line                                          40   100
3. Environ. Mitigatory Measures
and Monitoring Programs          5    10    30    60    75    95   100
B.  Equipment Purchase                       5    20    40    65   100   100
C.  Technical Assistance                    10    20    40    65    85   100
D.  Project Mgmt./Admin.                    10    35    60    85    95   100



-75                                           ANNEX 11
page 1 of 2
ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Procurement Schedule for Maior Contracts
Contract               Number                                Key Target Dates
Value    Contract      of       Sources of 
Component            (USSSU)       Type    Packages    Financing       Documents  Prequal.  Bids/Prop  Contract
(1)                                             Ready      Invited   Invited    Signed
k. ROSEAU DAM
WATER SUPPLY
Roseau Dam
Procurement         1216           p     Multiple       OPEC            8/91          -       6/91        2/92
Construction       10493           C         1          CIDA            6/91        1/91      7/91        8/92
Pumping Station
Procurement          420           P     Multiple      WB GOSL          1/91          -       8/91        a/92
Construction         808           C         1           do.            1/91          -       8/91        6/92
Roseau-Mi I let
Pipe line
Procurement          382           p          1          CDB            1/91          -       2/91        8/92
Construction         844           C         1           do.            1/91        6/92      1/98        6/93
Sarot-Clceron
PIpe line
Procurement         1876           P         1           CDB            8/90          -       7/90        4/91
Construction         880           C         1           do             6/90        7/90      4/91        9/91
Ciceron-Castries
Pipeline
Procurement          662           P         1           CDOB           6/90          -       4/91        8/91
Construction         838           c         1           do.            6/90        2/91       7/91       2/92
Water Treatment
Procurement         l819           p     Multiple      WB/COSL          7/90          -       7/90        4/91
Construction        1859           C         1           do.            7/90                  7/90        6/91
Design/Spn.           4600           S     Multiple      CIDA/WB        As noeded       -          -           -
CDB/GOSL/OPEC
Associated
Infrastructure
Access Road          888           C          1        WB/GOSL          4/90                  6/90        10/90
Millet Road          422           F,C   Multiple      WB/OOSL        As needed       -          -          -
Power Line           204           C          1        WB/GOSL          4/92          -        6/92       7/92



- 76-                                           ANNEX 11
page 2 of 2
Contract              Number                                Key Target Dat.,
Value    Contract      of      Sources of ------------------------------------------------
Component            (USIOCO)     Type    Package*    Financing       Documents  Prequal.  Bids/Prop  Contract
(1)                                            Ready      Invited   Invited    S1gned
8. EQUIPMENT
PURCHASES
Computer            281           P         2-8       WB/COSL          6/90         -        7/90       2/90
Leak detection
equipment            68          P         2-8       WB/GOSL          6/91         -        6/91       12/91
Communications/
telemetry sqp.     444           P         2-8       WB/GOSL          8/91         -        9/91       7/92
Vehicles
(reservotr/
monitorirg)         80          P         1-2       WB/GOSL          8/98         -        4/98       6/9a
Workshop Toole
equipment            15          P     Multiple      WB/GDSL        As needed      -          -          -
C. TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE
Financial Mgmt
Improvoents        278           S         1-2         we             12/89        -        8/90       9/90
Fixed Assets
revaluation         75           S          1          WB             8/90         -        6/90       9/90
Ops Improvs/
training Prog.       s9e          S         2-8         WB             6/90         -        7/90       10/90
Manpower Trg.        187          S     Multiple        Ws           As needed      -          -          -
Sewerage
Tariff study         s6          S          1          Ws             8/91         -        6/91       7/91
Future Proj.
Prep/Review          90          S     Multiple        Ws          As needed       -          -          -
D. PROJECT MGMT/ADM.
Management and     1622           S     Multiple  CIDA/WB/CDB        As needed      -
Admin. Services                                      ODSL/OPEC
NOTE:
(1) Contract value In base cost (January 1990 dollars).
(P) Procurment
(C) Conatruction (may Include supply and Installation contrekts)
(F) Force account (inc udes in-houas and hirod labour and heavy plant, materials);
(S) Consultant Services



- 77 -
ANNEX 12
ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
A. Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan and IDA Credit
IBRD Fiscal               Investment   Interest During           Total
Year & Semester             Ph)Pra       Construction        Disbursements
--------- USS '000 ------------          Cum.  Cum %
of Total
1991
Dec. 31, 19VO             500                             500        7
June 30, 1991             700                           1,200       16
1992
Dec. 31, 1991           1,200                           2,400       31
June 30, 1992           1,300                           3,700       48
1993
Dec. 31, 1992            1000                           4,700       61
June 30, A993             700             5             5,405       70
1994
Dec. 31, 1993             600            15             6,020       78
June 30, 1994             500            40             6,560       85
1995
Dec. 31, 1994             500            60             7,120       93
June 30, 1995             300            80             7,500       97
1996
'Dec. 31, 1995             200                           7,700      100
Loan closing date - March 31, 1996.



ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
Indicator                          1988     1989       1990       1991       1992       1993       1994       1995       1996
OPERATIONS
Water Sold Mil. Gal                1890      1939      1995       2029       2064       2091       2230       2373       2424
Water Produced Mil. Gal            2610      2642      2645       2733       2763       2781       2954       3128       3175
Unaccounted for Water-S* (2)         28        27        26         26         25         25         25         24         24
Unaccounted for Water-P (2)          35        33        32         31         30         29         28         27         26
Water Connections                 19300    20300      21300      22300      23000      23500      24000      24500      25000
EmployeeslOOO Water Conn.         13.0     12.5       12.0       11.7       11.4       11.3       11.3       11.2       11.1
FINANCE
Ave. Tariff ($EC0OOO gal sold)  5.36        5.40       6.10       6.65       7.30       8.05       8.85       9.75      10.70
Working Ratio (2).                   78        82        75         74         72         68         65         60         57
Operating Ratio (X)                  90        93        91         94         92         88         88         87         82
Debt Service Ratio (X)              438      440        336        217        220        202        114        115        138
Current Ratio (%)                   177       156       178        197        228        224        155        143        158
Debt to Equity Ratio (%)             41        48        54         93        144        164        159        133        111
Days Receivable                     158       120       110        105        100         95         90         90         90
S- Systemwide
P  - Project Area



- 79 -                           ANNEX 14
page 1 of 8
ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Roseau Dam Water Supply Scheme: Environmental Impact Assessment and
Implementation Plan
Introduction
1.       In 1986, CIDA commissioned Stanley Associated Engineering Ltd.
(SAEL) to examine the various water supply options for the capital city of
Castries and the northwest region of St. Lucia, and to assess their
feasibility in great detail. In their feasibility assessment, SAEL
considered environmental as well as technical issues in comparing the various
water management scenarios (for details, refer to SAEL documents noted in
Annex 16). SAEL prepared a seDarate Environmental :mpact Statement (EIS) for
the preferred water mianagement scenario. Three primary objectives were set
out for the EIS. These were:
1. To identify and describe the various environmental and social
impacts associated with the water management program
recommended-
2. To recommend methods of mitigating and controlling identified
impacts, and to develop the required environmental monitoring
programs; and
3. To identify those areas where significant data gaps prevent
the adequate assessment of likely impacts and to describe the
research necessary to fill those gaps.
2.       Storage Reservoir Optioni.  The engineering investigations carried
out by SAEL concluded that development of a water-supply reservoir was the
most feasible option for meeting the long-term water management goals of
GOSL. These studies also concluded that the optimal location for such a
reservoir would be in the upper portion of one of several river basins
flowing from the mountainous interior of the island. Such a reservoir
would store the runoff from the high rainfall areas in the interior (mean
annual rainfall is as high as 4500 mm), and make this water available over
the December to June dry season.
3.       Development of a storage reservoir was the preferred option for a
number of reasons. While it was feasible to increase the run-of-river
intake system currently used in St. Lucia, those would not meet long-term
needs, or assure supply, during severe drought conditions, as the current
supply comes from a numlber of relatively small rivers with variable flows.
Unlike run-of-river intakes, a reservoir could also potentielly provide dry
season flous for donLstream irrigation purposes, and might also have some                X
potential for limited hydroelectric power generation.



- 80 -                              ANNEX 14
page 2 of 8
4.       Roseau Dam Water Supply Scheme (see Map 21810): The storage
reservoir -till be located in the mountainous interior of the island in
order to retain the runoff from seasonal high rainfall periods. Three
potential reservoir locations were assessed, and based on economic,
technical and environmental criteria, the upper Roseau River has been
selected as the preferred site. Ancillary developments required include an
expanded water treatment and distribution system. In addition to potable
water, the reservoir has been designed to supply some irrigation water in
the earlier years of operation and some limited hydropower to meet on-site
application needs.
5.       The proposed upper Roseau dam will be 41m in height and composed
of rockfill with a con^:rete face. The height was selected to provide the
required storage to meet a design drought of fivu consecutive months
duration with a recurrence interval of ten years. Construction will
require development of a coffer dam and diversion tunnel, a 1.6km access
road to the dam face, a 26m spillway and a mx. iport intake system. (Access
to the dam site is currently limited; the nea?est road climbs steeply along
the edge of a very narrow valley formed by a small tributary to the Roseau
River, ending at the Millet Village). The required rockfill, aggregate and
clays will be quarried locally. Other areas of disturbance during dam
construction will include excavation and disposal of soil and weathered
rock in the dam base area, development of the quarry and disposal of quarry
wastes, and clearing of vegetation from the reservoir basin. Construction
of the dam is anticipated to require about 18 months to complete (during
1992-1993).
6.       The Roseau River basin has a total catchment of 40 km2.  Of this,
15 km2 will drain into the reservoir. At full supply level (FSL) the
reservoir will be 25 ha !'m area, 1.85 km long and have a mean depth of
12.8m. Total volume at ijL is estimated to be 3,200 Mega Liters (about 700
Million Imperial Gallons). Up to 4 months will be required to fill the
reservoir. Initially, excess water will pass over the spillway for 3 to 4
months per year, and drawdown during the dry season will be small (1 to
2 m). Increasing consumer demand and the loss of live storage from silt
deposition will increase average arnuul drawdown steadily from 5.5 m
iaitially to a maximum of 10 to 15 m by the year 2025.
Existing Environvment
7.       The proposed reservoir will be developed within the rugged central
portion of St. Lucia. The area has an extreme topography, dominated by
steep volcanic mountains. Rainfall is high (3000 mm annually) (118 in.)
and unevenly divided between a dry season (January through June) and a wet
season (July through December). Air temperatures average 26.5 C (80 F).
8.       The reservoir will lie within a narrow and steep-sided valley.
The geology of the area is dominated by andesite lawa flows and andesite
porphyry, and mostly residual soils and some colluvium. The natural climax
forest wTithin the proposed reservoir is sub-tropical moist forest, with a
transition zone to sub-tropical rain forest in the upper basin. Areas
where small slippages of soil and vegetation have occurred are relatively
common along the steep valley walls. Approximately 80Z of the catchment is
within Government Forest Reserve and is classed as Protection Forest.



- 81 -                          ANNEX 14
page 3 of 8
9.       The Roseau River hydrograph is "flashy" with very short but
intense peaks, and very low flows during drought events. The river is
relatively narrow with a bankfull width of approximately 2Om (65 ft.), and
within the reservoir area is relatively turbulent and bedrock controlled.
Water quality is good.
10.      Native vegetation in the lower Roseau valley has been replaced by
agriculture, primarily bananas. Agticultural activity declines towards the
dam site, with secondary forest predominating interspersed with small
garden plots and pasture. Above the dam, the lower valley contains
slightly degraded mature forest, while the majority of the upper catchment
is covered by dense native rain forest.
11.      Birds are the most common wildlife in the Roseau valley (33
species) with only a few native reptile and mammal spec'es. With limited
exceptions, all are protected by law. One species, the St. Lucia parrot
(Amazona versicolor) is rare and endangered, and the government of St.
Lucia has undertaken a major protection program. This has included
protection of the island's mature rain forest which is critical for the
birds. The program has resulted in a small but significant increase in
parrot numbers. The primary area currently used by the parrots is to the
south of the Roseau basin, but the birds are increasingly using the Roseau
valley for feeding and roosting.
12.      Human habitation within the reservoir catchment is limited to a
few homes at the south end of the village of Millet and well removed from
the reservoir. The lower Roseau River is used extensively by a number of
rural communities for bathing and laundry purposes but use upstream of the
dam site is limited due to its remoteness and difficulty of access.
13.      Schistosomiasis (Bilharzia) is a water borne disease often
associated with tropical reservoirs, which is contracted through skin
contact with fresh water. Infection of the reservoir would occur if eggs
of the worm, Schistosomi- Mansoni, contained in the feces of infected
humans are allowed to enter the water, hatch and infect the host snail.
The incidence of schistosomiasis in St. Lucia has been reduced considerably
by a number of government programs, including treatment, education,
provision of bathing/laundry facilities, improved sanitation and control of
carrier snail populations. The disease is rarely fatal but can be
extremely debilitating.
14.      Agriculturei  activity above the dam site is limited to a few small
plots on the upper ridges. Sixty-nine hectares (1% of the catchment) is
privately owned. The forest above tk.e dam has traditionally been used as a
source of logs and charcoal. The value of the river fishery is unknown but
it may be of some local importance.
Environmental Impacts and Proposed Mitigation and Monitoring .-easures
15.      Climate:  No adverse impacts are predicted, due to the small
reservoir size. Mitigation measures and monitoring are not required
16.      Terrain:  Filling the reservoir is predicted to result in shallow
soil slippages below FSL, particularly as drawdown increases. Slippages



- 82                            ANNEX 14
page 4 of 8
above FSL should not be extensive. Sediment from slippages and from soil
carried in the area runoff will be trapped in the reservoir, reducing
storage volume with time. These loadings were included in the project
design, and provided no changes occur in the current land practices in the
catchment, will not result in any environmental impact
17.      Borrow area development will likely be near the dam face, and if
so, impacts will be primarily aesthetic. The disposal of spoil from quarry
development and dam excavation may occur eithet within or below the
reservoir. While some risk of erosion exists for either option, spoil
disposal within the reservoir would reduce storage capacity and may disturb
wildlife. The disposal of spoil below the dam site is thus preferred.
18.      No mitigation of slope failure below FSL is possible.  Control of
slope failures and siltation rates above FSL can best be achieved by
maintaining forest cover. No agriculture or other human activity in the
catchment should be permitted, basin clearing should be controlled to avoid
excessive tree cutting, and selected forestation should be undertaken.
Routine monitoring for illegal agriculture will be carried out.
19.      Borrow area development within the reservoir will not require
mitigation, but quarries significantly upstream of the dam are definitely
not recommended. Below the reservoir, reclamation of rock quarry areas is
limited to levelling the floor areas, re-spreading stored soils and
revegetation. Spoil disposal within the reservoir would require the
development of underdrains to avoid erosion slippage and is not recommended
for this and other reasons. Mitigation of downstream spoil disposal
effects will require careful compaction, stabilization and reclamation of
storage areas.
20.      Soil erosion during site preparation and dam constzuccton will be
mitigated by avoiding wet weather construction where feasible, and
employing best practical construction techniques to reduce the entry of
eroded soils into the rivers. Ongoing monitoring over the project
cons ruction period will be undertaken, and a site-specific revegetation
pregram will be developed.
21.      Hydrology.  The impoundment of river water in the reservoir, and
its diversion for treatment, distribution and consumption will
sigaificantly alter the flow regime of the Roseau River below the dam site.
At flood times, the reservoir will attenuate downstream flood peaks.
During the annual dry season, the present range of natural fluctuations in
low river flows below the dam site will also be reduced. However, since
the dam will impound only 15 km2 of the 40 km2 Roseau River catchment,
flows from the remaining 25 km2 of catchment below the dam site will remain
unaltered.
22.      Design of the reservoir includes for the continuous release of a
minimum compensation flow of 0.077 m3/s in perpetuity. This flow is
adequate to meet existing downstream riparian water usage, principally
irrigation but not for fisheries, whose value is likely to be small.
Releases of water from the reservoir into the r_-Ver to meet substantially
increased irrigation water requirements expected in the lower Roseau



- 83 -                            ANNEX 14
page 5 of 8
Valley, will greatly help to augment low river flows, up to a maximum of
0.603/s, but these will not be contin ous. Further flow increases will
occur over the dam spillway whenever FSL is exceeded.
23.      A catastrophic flow would result if dam failure should occur.
Because approximately 250 people would be at risk, the dam and associated
spillway have been designed to pass the probable maximum flood.
24.      In the initial stage of water impoundment, reservoir water quality
may be reduced due to the initial nutrient loadings from the inundated
soils and vegetation, and at a later date if thermal stratification occurs.
Mitlgation of the possible reduced raw water quality in the initial stage
will be possible through the proposed removal of all vegetation in the
reservoir below FSL, during dam construction. It is proposed that
withdrawal of raw water from the reservoir for potable supplies will be
effected by use of a multi-level outlet system, which will allow water to
be drawn from within the body of the reservoir where quality is best.
This, together with use of conventional water treatment, will prevent
negative impacts on the quality of potable supplies.
25.      Proposals for   > elease of compensation water and water for
irrigation purposes downstream using poorer quality water from the deeper
levels within the i-'servoir may have some impact on downstream aquatic
live. However, routine limnologice.l monitoring is proposed to mitigate
against this.
26.      The anticipated effects of cyclic drawdown of reservoir water
levels include increased dust from the dried-out, bare exposed perimeter of
the reservoir when levels are low, shoreline slippage of soils and
aesthetics. How_ver, the impacts are likely to be minimal, particularly in
view of the remoteness of the site.
27.      Adequate potable water supplies and community bathing/laundry
facilities will be provided to all downstream communities. The reduced
contact with the river should significantly reduce the risk of contracting
schistosomiasis. Proposed monitoring to determine the adequacy of improved
water supplies and of compensation flows will take at least 2 to 4 years
following dam completion, and will include an assessment of base flow
requirements below the Millet River intake.
28.      Water quality entering the reservoir will be maintained by
protection of the catchment forest. Maintaining the stratification in the
reservoir and abstracting the better quality water will also help to
optimize raw water quality. Impacts of reduced water quality downstream
will be reduced by provision of adequate volumes of piped water to the
communities in the lower Roseau valley and by re-aeration of released
flows. Monitoring of water quality in the reservoir and in the Roseau
River at several stations will be carried out.
29.      No mitigation of drawdown effects is -ossible, but since drawdown
will likely reduce B. glabrata (the host snail for the Schisto worm) in the
reservoir, this is not a serious concern.



- 84 -                          ANNEX 14
page 6 of 8
30.      Flora.  The native vegetation within the 25 ha. area to be
inundated is somewhat degraded and of relatively low value. Therefore,
impacts from clearing this area will be minimal. Aquatic vegetation,
particularly floating species, may become excessively dense in the new
reservoir. Impacts from floating vegetation may include reduced water
quality, clogging of intakes and provision of habitat for B. glabrata.
31.      Since more forestry lands will be gained than lost, no additional
mitigation is required. Drawdown is anticipated to be effective in
reducing rooted aquatic plants and some floating plants, and clearing of
emergent trees will also be beneficial. Chemical control, mechanical
control and biological control of aquatic plants (using herbivorous fish)
are all possible but require thorough investigation. Routine monitoring
for aquatic vegetation will be conducted.
32.      Fauna.  Government forestry and wildlife biologists have examined
the site and in their opinion the valley vegetation which would be lost is
not unique. The proposed flooded area also represents only 0.5% of the
5000 ha (12,000 ac.) of St. Lucia's Government Forest Reserve. Since it
has been decided that the 73 ha (180 ac.) privately owned, part forest,
part farmed land in the catchment basin will be transferred to the Forest
Reserve for watershed protection, and reforested, a net positive benefit
may occur.
33.      Some risks from reservoir development do exist for the St. Lucia
parrot. These include: temporary displacement due to the noise and other
disturbance during construction; longer term impact if access to the island
interior improves as a result of reservoir development; and the permanent
loss of habitat due to flooding. The effects of noise are expected to be
short term and can be substantially mitigated, while the impact of habitat
flooding will be minor due to the relatively low quality o- the habitat,
and the relatively small area lost. A significant increase in human
access, however, could have severe impacts including loss of habitat to
slash and burn agriculture and increased risk of illegal hunting and
trapping of the birds.
34.      It is anticipated that the reservoir will alter both upstream and
downstream aquatic populations, but the extent of these changes is unknown.
It is expected, however, that the impacts will be small. It is possible
that the reservoir could be used for aquaculture, and the introduction of
some fish species, with or without government approval, is considered
likely. Uncontrolled aquaculture could have serious impacts by increasing
human access to the reservoir. This in turn may increase illegal
agriculture, wildlife disturbance and risk of contaminatin of the
reservoir with schistosomiasis.
35.      Mitigation programs to protLct the St. Lucia parrot are expected
to provide general protection for all wildlife. Construction activities
will be limited to the dam site or downstream as much as possible.  Only
hand clearing of the reservoir area will be allowed, and activity in the
basin area will be restricted frcm mid-January to mid-March, during the
bird breeding and nesting season. No access road development beyond the
dam will be permitted, and the access road to the dam gated and locked.
Monitoring of the parrot populaLoin before, during and post-const.uction
will be carried out.



- 85 -                           ANNEX 14
page 7 of 8
36.      No maitigation of effects on upstream aquatic fauna appears
feasible but impact will be small. Downstream mitigation will be achieved
by modifying base flows. Research to develop an aquaculture strategy for
the reservoir will be undertaken.
37.      People.  While the reservoir is intended to provide a net positive
benefit to the people of St. Lucia, impacts on local residents from
increased risk of schistosomiasis, from relocation and from construction
traffic may occur. Reservoir development may increase schistosomiasis risk
by providing new snai. habitat and by increasing human contact with
infected waters. By providing a large area of new static water habitat,
the reservoir may become a source of host snails above and below the dam.
The stable flows and reduced flood events below the dam will also encourage
B. Rlabrata development.
38.      If not controlled, the reservoir may also become an attractive                  _
laundry and bathing area, leading to high rates of human contact and
recontamination from poor sanitary practices. Agriculture or other human
activities in the catchment may further increase the risk of contact, as
well as the risk of human wastes containing S. mansoni eggs re-entering the
water. Downstream contact with the river will likely decrease due to
increase piped water supplies, tending to reduce infection rates, but
failure of the water supply could result in a return by residents to the
rivar for water and a concurrent high rate of infection.
39.      It is proposed to relocate all buildings currently within the
watershed. This will produce a temporary disruption for relocated
residents, but the impacts are expected, with proper planning and community
consultation, to be short term and minor. The number of persons to be
relocated is 159 comprising 42 households. Much more serious are the
possible impacts from dam construction traffic during the estimated 18
month construction period. While the residents living along the Millet
village road will likely adapt to the increased noise, the risk of serious
traffic accidents is high. The road is extremely steep, narrow and poorly
surfaced and is used extensively by pedestrians.
40.      As noted earlier, mitigation measures for schistosomiasis will
include reducing the quality of the new snail habitat, and biological and
chemical control of snail populations in the reservoir.  Experimental flow
releases will be tested to determine adequate flushing flows below the dam.
41.      Mitigation will also be achieved by reducing human contact with
potentially infect-d water. Control measures during construction will
include screening of workers, and prevention of poor sanitation practices.
Post construction measures will include restricted access to the reservoir
and education programs to explain the importance of this action. The major
mitigation method above and below the dam will be to ensure piped water
supplies and laundry/bathing facilities are adequate and maintained. An
extensive monitoring program will be undeztaken, including infected snail
population surveys above and below the dam, as well as rates and points of
human contact with the stream. Continued treatment of infections and
maintenance or expansion of present snail control programs will be
emphasized.



- 86 -                           ANNEX 14
page 8 of 8
42.      Mitigation measures for relocation will include early
communication with affected families, provision of new housing equal to or
better than those lost, and ensuring that homes are relocated in an
acceptable area (such as the St. Lucia Model Farms, located downstream of
the dam site). The Government is currently undertaking studies to
determine the extent of relocation needs.
43.      Proposed mitigation of the safety risks from increased traffic
during dam construction will include upgrading the geometry, drainage and
surface of the Ulillet road, and provision of a series of traffic control
points along the road.
44.      Resource Use.  The re-classification of the 15 km2 of catchment as
Protection Forest, including the 73 ha owned privately, will by existing
law prohibit any further agricultural use of the area. Currently, only a
small portion of the private land is cultivated, and the quality of the
land is low due to steep slopes and high erosion. Therefore, immediate
impacts of ending agriculture would be small. As noted earlier, the loss
of forestry resources to the reservoir area (24 ha) will be small, and the
addition of the 73 ha. of privately owned land to the Forest Reserve will
result in a net positive impact. Some downstream fisheries resources will
be lost, but their value is unknown. Irrigation values, offstream water
requirements and hydroelectric power generation are all either proLected or
enl"anced.
Eavironmental and Resettlement Plan
-,5.     An environmental and resettlement was agreed during negotiations
(February 23, 1990), the details of which are presented in the accompanying
charts for the major programs, namely, relocation, schistosomiasis control
and reforestation. Detailel information on these programs is available in
Project Files (Annex 16).
PI



ST. LUCIA IWTER SUPPLY PROJECT
PrpoDOd Relocation Propram. Activity Chait
1990                                   1991                                  1992
h,Wt;V;tV                    J  F  M A  M J  J  A  S  0 N  D    J  F  U A  M  J  J  A  S  0  N  D   J  F M  A M  J  J  A  S  0  N  D
1. Watershed Land Purchase:               -
2. Relocation:
(s) Land Purchase
and Development
(St. Lucia Model
Farm)
(b) Construction Vt
House.
8. Santtation Facilities:
(a) Education Program      -------------------------------------------_-_--_-_____
(b) Physical Facilities                                                  _
(Latrines Water Supply
System)
fD 
X >4
a..
4-.



- 88 -
ANNEX 14
Appendix 2
ST. WCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Environmental and Resettlemnt Plan
Proposed Schistomiasis Control/monitorina and Eradiction Proorsm
Activity Chart
Activity                         l980       1991      1992      1993      1994       1995
and beyond
Pre-Constructi on
1. Establish health trends        _
2. Collect base line dat(,
8. Education programs
4. Provide treatments               ---  ------- ------ ---------- --------  ------
5. Follow-up effects                ---  -------- -------- ---------- ---
Construction
1. Establish Health Office at
dam site and maintain                             _____
2. Establish emergency
arrangnonts mnd maintain
Post-construction
1. Seed reservoir
2. Screen/monitor
reervoir operations
S. Review comnunity
health records
4. Monitor rivers/streams
for host snails                                            _
5. Monitor potable water
quality
S. Monitor sanitation
facilities



ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL AND RESETTLEMENT PLAN
PROPOSED FOREST PROTECTION AND REFORESTSATION SCHEDULE FOR UPPER ROSEAU VATERSHED
ACTIVITY CHARTf -
1990             1991             1992             1993              1994
ACTIVITY           1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   1   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4
FOREST PROTECTION
Forest patrol officer         ..--- ----------------
Millet res house               _
-     :,t I.
REFORESTATION                              l
Mil'et nursery establish                                                                                                                             co
~ee  ,vi'2'lag.J"ectionj*'-----------
?Pcdurticn at Union flurst                  -----------      ---------------
Grownd preparation                              --- |            ---               -
Planting & fertilizing                               -------I
Replacement planting                                     ---       _     _ 
Plantation maintenance                          __                        ---              -----         -
4echnical supervision    _______ ._                  - _  _ _ ___         - - - - _     -
Plantation monitoring                 _  _                __ 
_-  .   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



_ 90 -                           ANNEX 15
Page I of 2
ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Assumptions for Economic Analysis
A. Comparison of Cost of Economic Alternatives
(i)   Proposed Roseau Project
(a) Investment cost in 1990-94 was taken from the project cost
table excluding price contingency and interest during
construction;
(b) in 1998-99 a total of EC$ 11.4 million is required as
follows: Phase II of treatment plant (EC$ 3.9 million);
expansion of Sarot-Ciceron pipeline (EC$ 6.9 million); and
phase II of pump station (EC$ 0.6 million). In 2009 an
investment cost of EC$ 4.3 million is required for Phase III
of the water treatment and pump station;
(c) the salvage value of the dam in year 2025 is EC$ 18.7 million
(18 of 50 years left);
(d) marginal operating cost with the proposed project is EC$ 2.3
per 1,000 gallons;
(ii) Water Imports
(a) The vessel used is in the 30,000 DWT range to be hired at a
cost of EC$ 22,500 a day, carrying up to 6 million gallons,
a-8 capable of 12.5 knots at 26 tons of diesel per day;
(b) cost of water imported from Dominica to St. Lucia is ECS 26.5
per 1,000 gallons (including EC$ 5 per 1,000 gallons charged
for water in Dominica);
(c)  water imports will involve construction of unloading facility
(EC$ 5 million), stand-by boat charge of EC$ 1 million per
year and annual operating cost of ECS 250,000;
(iii) Desalination Plant
(a) desalination plant cost EC$ 77 million for facili.,y with a 5
IMGD capacity; it operates at 80% of capacity, its life is 15
years and construction period is two years;
(b) starting in 2014, an additional desalination plant (at half
capacity and cost) will be required to satisfy demand;
(c) maintenance cost of the desalination plant is 5% of
investment costs and variable operating costs are EC$ 23.6
per 1,000 gallons produced;



ANNEX 15
- 91 -                      Page 2 of 2
B. Other Economic Benefits
(a)  the hydro plant has 200 KW capacity, costs about ECS 750,000,
involves an annual operating cost of EC$ 45,000 and needs a
EC$ 150,000 investment after each ten-year period to replace
equipment;
(b) the agricultural component involves an investment in
irrigation of about ECS 3.2 million every 10 years. Yield
per hectare is about 41 tons with irrigation (to be achieved
in five years) and 27.5 tons without it. The producer price
per ton with irrigation is EC$ 576 and EC$ 554 without it
(because of change in seasonal pattern). The variable costs
per ton are EC$ 56 for transport, packing and fertilizers.
Operating costs for the irrigation scheme amount to $700 per
hectare. The irrigation scheme will be repeated only twice
since beyond the year 2013 there would not be sufficient
water available from the reservoir to justify replacement of
the irrigation equipment.



ST. LUCIA - WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION - COMPARISON OF COST OF ALTERNATIVE SUPPLIES OF WATER
INCREMENT      PROPOSED PROJECT             WATER IMPORTS              DESALINIZATION
PRODUCT.  INVEST. INCREM. TOTAL   IMPORTS INVEST.-  TOTAL    INVEST.  INCREM. TOTAL
YEAR        GAL.MIL.   COSTS   OP. COST  COSTS    COSTS   OP. COST  COSTS    COSTS   VAR.COST  COSTS
1990                     8606               86Wm
1991                    21690              21890
1992                    86870              86870                                ai0                am70e
1998                    199W6              19956              s566      56    40c                  40660
1994             162     5288       878     5e09     4293      1256     5648     8ss8    a823       7678
1995             319                734      784     84s4      1258     9764     asse     7528    11378
1996             8se                819      819     9484      126    16684       esse    8402    12252
1997             895                909      909    1488       1260    11718     38S5     9322    13172
19es             459    566        lose     es6e   12164       1260   18414      886e   10832    14682
1999             525    6a8s       1288     7573    13013      1260   15163      88se    12899    16246
260              sOs               134      1346    1ss56      1256    16758     88s5    18a6      17656
2661             649               1493     1493    17199      1256    18449     3856e   1sa5      19166
2002             718               1648     1640    8s89       1250    26145     8856   -16827    26677
268              777               1787     1787    20591      1256    21841     8SS6   19337    22187
2664             841               1934     1984    22287      1250    23637      8560   19848    2698 
2005             966               2084     2084    24009      1256    25265    a860    21882    25282
266              977               2247     2247    26891      126e    27141    a86e    28857    26907
2607            1047               2409     2408    27746      1260    28996    46850    24709    65569
20a8            1118               2571     2671    29627      1260    38877    43860    26388    70236
26o9            1188     486       2n82     7032    81482      125   38272      88s5    28037    818e7
2610            1259               2896     2896    88864      12S5    34614     8856    29712    336e2
2011            1322               8841     8841    a683a    1260   ae288        ass8     31199    35649
2012            1885               3186     al88    38708      12S     879a58    as8e 6   32686    8e85
2018            1447               8828     8828    88a46      1260   89596    43856    34149    77999
2014            51610               473     8478    40616      126e    41265     5775    868s6    41411
2015            1L/3               els     8s61    41685      1260    429836    6775    87128    42898
2016            1639               8779     8770    43434      1250    44684     6776    8860    44455
2017            1706               3922     3922    45188      1260    46438     6776    40238    46013
2018            1770               4071     4071    40965    1250    48165       6776    41772    47647                              z
2019            1sa6               4228     4228    48654      1250    49964     5775    43388    49165
2826            1902               4876     4876    S0408      1256     166ss    5775    44887    56662 
2021            1978               4658     4588    52286      1260   sas8C      5775    46e63    52338
2922            2643               4699     4699    54140      1250    66580    42776     8215    96996
2023            2114               4862     4862   56821       1260    67271    46775    49890    96656
2024            2184               5623    5623    67876       1260   59126      5775    51642    57317
262s            2256   -18720      6187   -136a4    69758      1256    81868   -68956    63218   -15732
NET PRES. VALUE-10%     4887    74551    11289    85799   129494    11548   141648    99499   116323   214822



ST. WCIA - WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVAWATION - CO:TS AND BENEFITS STREAMS
INCREMfENT     PROPOSED MOJECT              WATER IPORTS        NET BEN. HYORO   ACtICULT.
PRODUCT.  INVEST. INCREM. TOTAL    IMPOSTS INVEST.+  TOTAL                 OUTPUT  OUTPJT
YEAR        GAL.MIL.  COSTS   OP. COST  COSTS    COSTS   OP. COST  COSTS    IH-E
                   ----      ----   ------         ------------       ----------------
1990                     6666               86Om                                -86n6
1991                    21690              21690                               -21696
1992                    36837              36870                               -3637
1993                    19960              19960              56W       G666  -14966      -646    -al81
1994             162     6230       375     663      4298     1260      6648      -4      386        66
1996             319                734      734     84E4     12560    9764      9970      311       96f
1996             a6                 819      819     9484     1260    10684      9935      181      1826
1997             395                909      909    144e8     1256    11718   1t809        821      1476
1998             459     GM        165S     656    12104      1256    13414      7858      326      1776
1999             625     6365      1208     7673    13913     1260    1168s    7590        386      1770
2006             585               1344     1846    1548a  1266    16753    16467           346     1776
2001             649               1493     1493    17199      1266    18449    16966       856     1776
2002             713               1640     1646    18895      1260    20146    18565       381     1ne
2003             777               1787     1707    20s5l      1260    21841    20065a       96    -3189
2664             841               1934     1934    22287      '260    23587    21602       871     1776
20065            96                2084     2064    24669      1260    25259    28176       876     1776
266              977               2247     2247    26891     1256    27141    24898        381     17'0
2097            1047               2408     2408    27746      125K    28996    267         886     177
2008            1118               2671     2571    29827     1260    38677    2888         891     1776
2669            1188     4806    2782       7682    8148:2    1260   82732    26760        a8e      1429
2010            1259               2886     286    8336.4    1260    84414    81718         896     11s8
2011            1822               3841     8641    86883    1260    36288    88242         896      966
2912            1885               t1is      1816    38706     1260    87958    34767       896      766
2061            1447               8828     8828    88384      1250    89596    3267        896e      ue
2014            1516               8473     3478    40013      1260    41265    87792       89e
2016            1673               8618     368s    41683      126e    42936    89817       896
2016            1639               8770     8770    43434      126e    44684    40914       89e
2017            1765               3922     8922    45183     1260    46488   42511         896
2018            1776               4071     4071    48906     1256    48155    44084        396                                      X
2019            1836               4228     4228    48664     1260    49904    46681        896
2020            1902               4876     4875    60406     1266    61065    47278        896
2021            1973               4588    4588    52286      1256    63686    48997        396
2022            2043               4699     4699    64140     1260   65390    60691         896
2023            2114               4862     4962    56621     1250    57271    62409        396
2024            2184               56023    6023    57876      1260    59126    64163       396
262S            2255   -18720      5187   -13534    59758      1260    61668    74641       396
NET PRES. VALUE-15%                                                                      -1453
NET PRES. VALUE-14%                                                                       55e8



- 94 -                        A    .16
ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
List of Selected Documents in Project Files
A.   The water and Sewerage Authority - Capital Works Program
(1987-91)
B.   Water and Sewerage Authority Act - St. Lucia (1984)
C.   Roseau Multipurpose Dam, Refeasibility Study by Klohn Leonoff
Ltd. (1983)
D.   Roseau Basin Water Development Program:  Feasibility Report
by Starley Associates Engineering Ltd. and Klohn Leonoff Ltd.
(30, May 1988) with following Working Papers:
1.  Population Projections
2.  Surface Water hydrology
3.  Water Demands-Potable Water
4.  Millet Intake and Pipeline - Design Studies
5.  Land Use
6.  Initial Environmental Evaluation
7.  Impact Statement - St. Lucia Parrot
8.  Impact Statement - Forestry
9.  Financial History of WASA
10.  Preliminary Asscjsment of Water Treatment Plants
(WTP)
11.  Esti.ated Irrigation Water Requirements at St. Lucia
Model Farms
12.  Economic Feasibility of Irrigating Bananas
13.  Yields of Reservoir intake Alternatives
14.  Environmental Impact Statement
15.  Ciceron WTP - Conceptual Design
16.  Assessment of Carriage Losses
17.  Socio-Economic Survey
18.  Groundwater Exploration Program
19.  Evaluation of Hydroelectric Power Generation
20.  Water Transmission, Dietribution and Storage
21.. Soils Testing Program
22.  Technical Report - Dam Alternatives
23.  Technical Report - Roseau Dam Functional Design
E.   Estimated Project Expenditures by year and Funding Agency.
F.   Rodney Bay Sewerage Scheme:  Conditions of Implementation by
BCEOM, SAFEGE (January 1989).
G.   Working Papers - Implementation Program for Environmental
Mitigation and Monitoring (Schistosomiasis. Reforestation and
Relocation) by the Central Planning Unit, St. Lucia.



ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
BOARD
OF
DIRECi 'RS
GENERAL
MANAGER
OPERATIONS i                                    CHIEF                       FINANCE/
ADM INiST.
MANAGER                          ~~~~~~~ENGINEER               MANAGER
|SUPERINTEND.   SUPERINTEND.   SUPERINTEND.     SUPPORT                       CAPITAL         STORES       SENIOR
GRADUTE                    ST-IWORKN S
|   NO{ITH   I  |  NORTH    PRODUCTION       SERVICE        ENGINEER     MANAGERKSN     | PURCHASE    ACCOUNTANT
MANAGER                     MANAGER ( 3 INR O  WORKING    ACCOULNT
SUPERVISORS    SUPERVISORS    SUPERVISORS    CSTUPRIS                            TARCU
SLUPERvISORS    6 OTHERIS      3 OTHERS       2 OTHERS                                                   SUPERRVORISORTAR
REPORTING     REPORTING       REOTING          SOUTH       SUPERVISORS                   SPRIO
ISUPERINTEND I                  SENIOR                              COMPUTER             JIPAER
|SEWERAGE                    TECHNICIN                              SERVICES       ACCOJNTS
SEWERAGE    TECH JJICI AN~ ~ ~ ~ ~~SPERISR                          FFCE
OPERATION                    ESTABUSHMNT. 
IROOM
SUPERVISOR   I ASSISTANTS                     OFFICERWASA ORGANIZATION
(existing)



-96-   CH1RT 2
1N~~*
_ | ~~~~~~~~Xh
ra~~~~~I
P. 0
p.4
p4-  -  -  - -
(._______._; U_____ P..



- 97 -
4        ~~~~~~CHART 2
rj~u[-'9~j; I -    |Page 2 of 2
I                             ;1E
12  <W~~~~~
IIr         s
Jill            JI  f~~~~~~lit] t



ST. LUCIA
ST. LUCIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: BAR CHARIT
OATE 22 9 00 AM 0290
IA tAU DAM WATfi SiUPPILY          198SWS     19           I9t           t92          1993          194           199t
1 RO)SEAU OAU                               JFMAMJJASONG JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASoND JFMAMJJASI:INlN fFMQAMJJASC?f jFMAMJJAf,(.Nn
ea MArIRiALS                                     Do       DD TTTTTT   TTTEEEEEEEFE EE
b DAM COVNSTTPUGTION                         0DD0DDDD0  DODDD
DAM 6ONSiTRJUG7t1N                                      PFIVPPTTTTrT TTTEEEEEEEE EEEEEEEEFELE E
c f<AW WATEII PUMP STATION
PRf-.URIFMfNT                                00D0OOO    0 TTTTTT          EEE      EEEEEE
i| IUISTALLAVION                              0DD0DDD   D TTTTTT                      EEEEEEEEE   E
8d PIPFLINE ROSEAU-MMILET
I PROCUREMENT                                 DDD0DDD   0               TTTTTTEEE  EEEEE
i nNSTALLATlON                                 DODDDDD   0                 PPPP      TTTTTTEEfEEEE fEECE
e PIPEI INE SAFI' -CCEPt "
I PRM0VF*MENT                     DODDDD      DDDODIT    TI TEEEEEEEE E
I h $%QtAL I AVIAN                 DODODD       DDODP    PPPTrTTTTEEE  22EEGGGEEr
I PIPELINE CtIGRON-CASTltlS
iP poxUREMIENY                    DDooDD      DDDD          MTTT       EEEEEEEEE
iliNSTALLATION                    D0DDDD      DDDD         PPPPPTTTT   TTEEEEEEEEEE EE
a WATER TREATMENT PLANT
I PROCURIENENT                    DDD0DD      DDODTT    TTTTEEEEEEEE
' tNr1TALLATtN                   0O0DOO      DDODTT    TTTTTEEEEEEE EEEEEE         E
h ENtwIlFNERINCto SIGNIINSUPERVISION        XXXXXXXXX   XXXXXXXXXXXX XKXIXXXXXXXXX  XXXXXXXXXXxX  Xxxtx                                          I
i2. ASSCCIATCD INI-RASTRtCTUcR
a DAM A' OFSSF ROAD                         ODOTTTTTT  EEFEEEEEEEEE                                                                              OC
Ib. MILLET ROAD UPGRADE                      D0D TT       EEEEEEE                       0DD       TTEEEEEE
a PCOWER SUPPLY LINE
I ?PRtCUREMENT                                                         DDOTTTEEE   EE
u INSTALLATION by luvekpn                                                           EEEEFEEE
!3 ENVItt*WtCNTAL IrTrDAT. N PWOGRAMS
i  WA?ERSD#5 PURCN ASI- IELCATION?           vvvvVV VV   vVV
b.SA)0t$A`TrjO  FACILI1IES                 VvVVVVWv  vwvvvvvvvVVV  Vwvwwvnwv
I cREFORF9TRATION PR06RAM          I         VVVV\VVVVVVV VVVVVVVVVVVV vvvvvvvvvV   VVVWVVvv VVv VV
d SFISTOMtASJS SURV-EY GO iNTROL             vVVVVVVv   VVVVVVVVVVVV vvWvVWVVVV    VvvvVVVVVVVVV VVVVVVV-VV    VVVVVVVVV
e ENVIRDNMENTAL tAEAbSURES                  V.JklvVVVvV   VVVVVVVVVVV  VVVVWVVWVVVV VVVVVVVVVVV  'VJV'VVVVVVVV  VVvVvV
B EiUM~T  Pl lVHA5E:
I C0 fPUTfR PURCHiASE                        rDDDT T T T T  TTEFEFEEEE
2 LEAK D0TECTION EOUIPMENT                                OODDTTTT1T  EFEEEEEEE
I  CfMMUNICA tr4rThTLfyMFTRY EQUIPMElIT                       DODDTT    ITTTTTEEEEE EEEE
4 VEI-mIICES                                                                         ODTTTEEE    000TTTTEEE
b WOR103H)9 TOO6LSIEQUIPMENT                               DOTTTEEE
C TEHNIWJAL ASSQtANEdC
1 FINANCIAL MNSMT IMPR4VME4NTS               XXXXXXXX   XXXXXxXXXXXX
2 FIXEO ASSET REVALUATION                       XXfXXX
3 OPERATIONAL IMPROVTSiTRAINING                 XXX       XXXXXXXXXX XXXxxxxxx   xxxxxxxxKK XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXX
4 SEWERACGE TARlfF TUDOY                                     XXXX
I PUTUPE PRJEGT PREP ASLtSTANCE              XXXXXXXXX   XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXlXX XXXXXXXXX
6 MANI'V)ER TRAIN4NG                           XXYXXX    XXXXXXXKXXXX  XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX  XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXX
D IECT  AAIJWMENT & AIMN
I MANAGMMENT GOCSULTING SERVICES             XXXXXXXXX   XX%XXXXXXXXX XKKXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXX
2 P*dUOPERATIONS                                XXX       XXXXXXXXXXXX .XXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXX
DsENGINEERINCGDESIGN REVIEWI                 E=EXECUTION OF GONTRACT
/PREPARATI(ON OF elD DOCUMENTS              XGCC NSULIANT SERVICES                                                                                    I
PsPREOUIALIFICATION                          V=ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM .APLEMENTATION
T .TENDERINC?CONTRACT AWARD



61 05                                            61 00                                            6055'
ST. LUCIA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                          -  505te
EXISTING WATER SUPPLY FACILITIES                                                     ,      C    Bos
14'05'                                                                                                                                                  14'05'-
Baisting:                                             Gros bIser                       
*    Wr'tnn Trn600ent PianOs                                 RMdui;, 
A    Intakes                                                           ; 
*    Storage Reservoirs                                  Mog       l 
Urban Areas                                     8.is D On
-    Rurcl Setlement Aes_                                               -
Maior Rcad                                    M lr
Rives and Streams
Elm ctivc in 6t.
-14,00                                                                                                                                                  14' 0'-
7~~~~~~
A AA
MsRaR1 H1rba         -                                          A          A
0                    '' )A                                                                                                .
A~~~~~~~~~~
ARp
13'45'                                                                                                  13'45ney                                  3 5
i'g ^A                                                                                   Mo Re1ea,
.S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- *  .D
KILOtMETER     ;ST
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
-13'fl5'               -         'CE               C   ,'              g             13'4~~~~~~~~~6055- _ VENEotEI
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Miv  nelw F1 n1avdserl wr rGeAuii
_   rr_Xrfi    Cr elaraollTv~                          6}D                                              60- 55         VENEZEIA          



61'05'                                                     61A-0                                                       60d55'
ST. LUCIA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT AREA LOCATION AND                                                                             CAP ESTATE
PROPOSED ROSEAU DAM WATER SUPPLY SCHEME
PROPSEAU MOtOEL    OPJOIIO-     HOHSE
1S             IA                    I      PTiHEip.1 Pip.liTs, dio.. in HT\
b                  e        o      ~~~~~~~~~~~~SLDrq. R--ir,oirs
U      Wat O TEMOSTS Pl-nfs
L                     A    InA WA.
0                           ~~     ~~~~~~~0 T-Tk
Access Rood
L    ,  St. uioS .Model FOTs                                               |
PA11RCtA-R  do-y
RONTS r nd StHOmS                                                  -
)) JgNION Y7
/S7  ;>          P~~~L b. d-,-od.,1l
CASTRIES          t  /ICT 4
CICERON-CASTRIES PIPELINE
14'00'                                                NEW                                   _4/00'-
CICECON WlP-1
SAROT CICERON PIPELINE
0)
LANAD   j                             ,                                         ---- O
*> IP7UMePINGr                   - l   b.llW7F 
,'.STIAION               \
: '    } /       ~~~RAVINE W>ISSON
-1355'                                                                  'A,                       INTAKE j                                                                              1355'-
JUNCTION  RNOS /                 HOSEAU-MILEL
MILLET PIPELINE   ' <2     COSEAS DAM 4"
Ji ACCESS  rPU^IGSTAT(rDN 
R/ LOAD    l  
MILLET INTAKE
19    REsno
13,50'                                                                                                                                                                                  1350'
13'45'                                                                                                                                1345'              EHORC
AOLA
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
o_5E-R-M -S-T rEN      AN er
13-45'                                                                                         l3^45 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SRI IHISTE   RSASRUSANN
N      ;     2     3      4LTHRAE A NTInH)                                                                                                                                CSenN,OE ElFe
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                         S:r IUCb    a
ZC                                                                                                                                               ARARA                            CST. VINCENT
TECASSI,O%HM555A-TEC.NOA,,61600'                                                                                                   60,55,     [       VNECASLA



