Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5164-TON
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 2.4 MILLION
OF THE
KINGDOM OF TONGA
FOR A
SECOND TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
DECEMBER 1, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of June 30, 1989)
Currency Unit      =   Tonga Pa'anga (T$)
US$1.00            =   T$ 1.3313
US$0.7511          =   T$ 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
Kingdom of Tonga - July 1 to June 30
Tonga Development Bank - January 1 to December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB       - Asian Development Bank
BOT       -  Bank of Tonga
IMF       -  International Monetary Fund
NRB       -  National Reserve Bank
OCR       -  Ordinary Capital Resources (of the ADB)
TA        -  Technical Assistance
TDB       -  Tonga Development Bank



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF TONGA
SECOND TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             Kingdom of Tonga
Beneficiary-          Tonga Development Bank (TDB)
Credit Amount:        SDR 2.4 million (US$3.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard - with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:      The credit would be onlent to the TDB for 15 years,
including a grace period of five years, at a rate equiva-
lent to the Asian Development Bank's (ADB) published
ordinary capital resources (OCR) rate rounded up to the
nearest 0.5Z. The rate will be adjusted each June 30 and
Decembcr 31 during the commitment period of the Credit to
reflect the published OCR rate. The interest rate pay-
able by the TDB would be fixed for those commitments made
during each six month period. The Government would bear
the direct foreign exchange risk or the Credit.
Co-lenders:           The ADB has approved a loan of SDR 3.96 million (US$5.0
million equivalent) from its Special Funds resources for
the project. Under the joint cofinancing arrangement
with IT)A, the ADB would take the lead in project admin-
istration, monitoring and supervision. In addition, the
ADB has approved a technical assistance grant of
US$328,000 equivalent for institution-building assistance
to the TDB.
Financing Plan:                                Local       Foreign          Total
---------(US$ million)----------
ADB                      ---            5.3           5.3
IDA                      ---            3.0           3.0
Government (Equity)      1.8            1.6           3.4
Subborrowers             3.6            ---           3.6
Total                 5.4            9.9          15.3
Economic Rate
of Return:          Not applicable.
Staff App;aisal
Report:             ADB Appraisal Report No. LAP:TON 22255, dated
October 1989.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 1 -
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE KINGDOM OF TONGA
FOR A SECOND TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
1.       The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed credit to
the Kingdom of Tonga of SDR 2.4 million (US$3.0 million equivalent) is sub-
mitted for approval. The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms and
would help finance eligible investments to increase production capl.city, pri-
marily in the agricultural, industrial, service and tourism sectors. The
proposed project would be cofinanced with the Asian Development Bank (ADB) as
the lead institution. The ADB would make available a loan of SDR 3.96 million
(US$5.0 million equivalent) from its Special Funds resources. In addition,
the ADB would provide a technical assistance (TA) grant of $328,000 equivalent
to strengthen and develop further the institutional capabilities of the Tonga
Development Bank (TDB). This would be the Bank Group's second lending opera-
tion in Tonga.
2.       Background.  The financial sector in Tonga comprises essentially
three financial institutions: the National Reserve Bank of Tonga (NRB); the
Bank of Tonga (BOT), a commercial bank that is owned jointly by the Government
(40Z) and three foreign commercial banks (202 each); and the TDB, a long-term
lending institution that is owned jointly by the Government (90?) and the BOT
(10Z). The BOT was established in 1974 to offer a full range of commercial
banking services and to undertake certain central banking functions that were
assigned by the Government. The TDB was established in 1977. For the most
part, it functions as the primary source of medium- and long-term loan finance
for agriculture, industry, agribusiness and tourism enterprises. In addition
to its equity capital, the TDB's funds have been provided by foreign grants
and loans from official sources. Until recently, monetary authority functions
in Tonga were shared between: the Ministry of Finance, the Board of Currency
Commissioners and the Board of Coinage Commissioners, and the BOT. However,
under legislation approved by the Legislative Assembly in November 1988 and
signed into law by the Kin, in December 1988, the NRB was established.  The
NRB, which became fully operational on July 1, 1989, has assumed
responsibility for the regulation of currency issue and the money supply,
management of official external reserves, promotion of monetary and financial
stability, and supervision and regulation of the financial sector (including
comprehensive powers to impose reserve requirements and liquid asset ratios on
banks). The NRB has the authority to determine exchange rate policy. It will
formulate and regulate the interest rate policy of Tonga.
3.       The first TDB Project (Credit 1813-TON) focused on the need to reform
the Government's interest rate policy with a view to realizing positive, real
deposit and lending rates over the medium-to-long term. Under Credit
1813-TON, the Government agreed to prepare, no later than June 30, 1988, an
action program, acceptable to IDA, for achieving a market-oriented, flexible
interest rate structure on domestic deposits and loans. IDA accepted the
Government's proposal of May 1988 outlining a timetable for achieving this.
Implementation of the timetable, however, was contingent upon implementation
of the then-proposed NRB legislation, since it provided the mechanism for
implementing interest rate reform. With the NRB becoming fully operational on
July 1, 1989, the interest rate policy reform initiated under the first
Project is expected to be fully achieved under the proposed second Project.



4.       Government Sectoral Objectives and Strategy.  Tonga's economic
development will continue to be based on agriculture, manufacturing and tour-
ism; and private sector participation in the economy is emphasized under
Tonga's Fifth Five-Year Development Plan (1986-90). It is expected that this
economic development effort will be expanded and consolidated through
increased foreign and domestic investment, with the TDB being the primary
source of medium&- and long-term resources to support this growth.
5.       Recognizing the need to implement a more effective interest rate
policy, the NRB has announced its intention to promote a market-determined
interest rate regime in Tonga that would reflect the status of the financial
markets of Tonga's malor trading partners. As an interim move towards estab-
lishing such a policy, the ceiling on lending interest rates was raised to
13.5Z with effect from July 1, 1989. Currently, both lending and deposit
rates in Tonga are positive in real terms. The NRB, in concert with the
Government, will review Tonga's interest rate structure every quarter
(beginning in the first quarter of 1990) with the objective of eventually
establishing an interest rate regime that responds fully to market
forces. The NRB has also recruited, with the assistance of the IMF, a foreign
expert who will assist it in the development and implementation of a more
active exchange rate policy.
6.       Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The proposed ADB/IDA-cofinanced
project, IDA's second credit to Tonga, would advance several objectives:
(i) promoting private investment, particularly in the agricultural,
industrial, service and tourism sectors, by making available medium- and long-
term resources; (ii) supporting continued financial sector reform with a view
to achieving market-based deposit and lending rates in the country, that, in
turn, would help promote domestic savings and the efficient allocation of
resources; and (iii) enhancing the TDB as a selfsustaining and viable
financial institution by strengthening its institutional development (through
diversification of its operations and improvements in its operating policies
and procedures). Recognizing the constraints imposed by an economy with a
population of less than 100,000 people and the limitations on expanding the
number of financial intermediaries in Tonga, the proposed project would foster
competition in Tonga by promoting macro-interest rate policy reform, as well
as assisting the TDB to operate successfully in the wake of such reform.
7.       Project Objectives.  The main cbjectives are:  (i) capitalizing on
the recently implemented NRB legislation, to implement interest rate policy
reform; (ii) to increase production capacity, primarily in the agricultural,
industrial, service and tourism sectors, by providing long-term resources to
TDB for making term loans primarily to the private sector; and (iii) to
continue to support TDB's institutional development.
8.       Project Description.  The proposed project would include IDA funds of
up to US$3.0 million equivalent and an ADB loan of up to US$5.0 million equiv-
alent, comprising a credit line to the TDB to meet the term-financing needs of
its clients over a three-year commitment period, 1990-92. Financing under the
line of credit would be provided to all viable subprojects in a broad range of
subsectors. With regard to TA for the TDB, ADB would provide grant funds for
the following: (i) US$98,000 for a "Loan Portfolio Review"; (ii) US$22,000
for a "Review of TDB's Micro Lending"; (iii) US$58,000 for preparation of an
"Accounting Procedures Manual" and an "Internal Audit Procedures Manual';
(iv) US$50,000 for additional software to enhance the TDB's computer system;
and (v) US$100,000 for external (overseas) staff training -- primarily for
middle-level management staff that can only be met outside of Tonga.



-3-
9.       Project Cost and Financing.  The total cost of the proposed project
is estimated at US$15.33 million equivalent. A breakdown of costs and the
financing plan are shown in Schedule A.  In lir,e with IDA's operations in
other small Pacific Island countries, 10O if a qualified subproject's foreign
exchange expenditures as well as a portion of local currency expenditures
would be eligible for financing with Credit proceeds, although total financing
of any qualified subproject would not, when local cost financing is involved,
exceed 75Z of the total subproject cost. Subloans would be cofinanced with
ADB on a joint basis; disbursements by ADB and IDA would be pari passu, i.e.,
62.5Z:37.5%. Amounts and method of procurement, disbursement categories, and
the estimated disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of
key project processing events and the status of Bank Group Operations in Tonga
are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. The Appraisal Report prepared
by the ADB, No. LAP:TON 22255, dated October 1989, is being distributed
separately.
10.      Onlending Arrangement.  IDA funds would be passed on to TDB at a
variable rate equivalent to the ADB's published ordinary capital resources
(OCR) rate (currently 6.4Z) rounded up to the nearest 0.5%, adjusted each
June 30 and December 31 during the commitment period of the Credit. The
interest rate payable by the TDB would be fixed for those commitments made
during each six-month period. The Government would bear the direct foreign
exchange risk. The funds would be onlent by the TDB to its borrowers at a
rate reflecting a margin of no less than 4.!2. With the implementation of the
interest rate policy reform provided under the proposed project, attention
could then be focused on the further objective of introducing variable
interest rates fully reflective of associated foreign exchange risks.
11.      Project Implementation.  Under the proposed project. the Borrower
would furnish to IDA, by December 31, 1990, a draft interest-rate policy by
which a market-oriented, flexible interest-rate structure conducive to
realizing positive, real deposit and le.tding rates would be maintained in
Tonga over the medium to long term. An interest-rate policy, acceptable to
ADB and IDA, would be implemented by March 31, 1991. To monitor progress in
achieving this project objective, the Borrower would submit quarterly reports
summarizing the NRB's quarterly reviews (including actions taken) beginning
the first quarter of 1990.
12.      The TDB will be the project implementing agency.  Based on its
audited financial statements, TDB's operational and financial performance is
satisfactory. However, a number of its internal operating and accounting
policies/procedures may overstate the *DB's profitability and the quality of
its loan portfolio. Under the proposed project, agreement would b', reached
with the GOT and the TDB, in view of the findings and recommendations
resulting from the proposed TA reviews, tv review and revise, as appropriate,
these policies and procedures so as to reflect more prudent iending and
financial practices in the future. As a condition of negotiations, the TDB
confirmed that its Board has: (i) modified its policy of recognizing interest
income on an accrual basis, limiting such accruals to performing loans only;
and (ii) revised its internal interest rate structure (to be rev'iewed
periodically, with any changes subject to prior consultation with ADB and IDA)
so as to permit the TDB to charge, within the boundaries of the Borrower's
interest rate policies (and with the exception of its micro-loan operations),
interest rates that reflect fully its assessment of the costs (including



-4-
risks) associated with its lending activities. These two changes adopted by
the TDB's Board are acceptable to ADB and IDA as interim measures. The
adoption by the TDB of standardizec procedures for rescheduling loans and
writing off bad debts would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
13.      An important issue to be addressed directly under the proposed
project concerns the compensation of the TDB for all costs associated with its
micro-loan portfolio that cannot be recovered through its interest rate struc-
ture. The TDB is the major source of credit for Tonga's small and less-
advantaged borrowers, primarily for family-based subsistence agriculture and
village service activities. The process by which the TDB establishes its
onlending rates for these micro-loans of less than T$1,000 is essentially one
of responding to political considerations and interpreting its role and
responsibilities as a development bank. Specific assurances have been
obtained from the Borrower to ensure that if political and legal constraints
do not permit TDB to adopt an interest rate structure that fully reflects the
cost (including risk) of delivering, supervising and administering these
micro-loans, then appropriate measures would be taken to compensate the TDB
for costs not fully recovered. The revised interest rate structure recently
adopted by the TDB provides for an increase in effective onlending rates
ranging from 3 to 5Z on all new loans other than micro-loans. For all new
micro-loans, the revised interest rate structure results in a decrease in
effective onlending rates (of 2 to 5Z). However, the resultant increase in
cross-subsidization of this lending activity will not affect significantly the
TDB's overall net profitability position, since micro-loans are expected to
constitute less than 20? of the TDB's new lending. Moreover, this situation
will be temporary; under the proposed project, effective January 1, 1991,
measures would be agreed and introduced to eliminate such cross-subsidization.
14.      Disbursements.  Withdrawal applications would be reviewed by the ADB
under procedures specified in a Letter of Credit Administration to be agreed
between the Association and the ADB, and disbursements from the Credit would
be made upon the ADB's telex advice. At the Borrower's request, a special
account would be established under the Credit with an authorized allocation of
US$340,000 equivalent. The final date for the submission of subloan
applications by the TDB would be December 31, 1992, and the closing date would
be December 31, 1993.
15.      Actions Agreed.  During negotiations with the ADB and IDA, the
following agreements were reached: (a) on onlending interest rates and
subloan conditions; (b) for the TDB, on a long-term debt-to-equity ratio not
to exceed 3:1 and a debt-service ratio of not less than 1.5 times; (c) on
minimum loan portfolio performance indicators to be maintained by the TDB in
order for it to withdraw from the Credit account; (d) that prior to July 1,
1990, consultants shall be engaged for (i) the Loan Portfolio Review, (ii) the
Review of TDB's Micro Lending, and (iii) the preparation of an Accouiting
Procedures Manual and an Internal Audit Procedures Manual; (e) that prior to
December 31, 1990, recommendations (including appropriate follow-up measures)
resulting from the TA referred to in (d)(i) and (d)(ii) above, shall be
adopted, as agreed by the Borrower, the TDB, ADB and IDA; (f) that the TDB
shall review its policy with regard to micro-loan lending, taking into
consideration the findings and recommendations of the "Review of TDB's Micro
Lending" carried out under the ADB's Technical Assistance Agreement. In
addition, the TDB shall (i) by January 31, 1991, furnish the results of its
review to the Borrower, ADB and IDA for comments; and (ii) by March 31, 1991,
prepare an action program, acceptable to the Borrower, ADB and IDA, including
measures by the Borrower to compensate TDB for all costs associated with



-5-
delivering, supervising and administering micro-loans; (g) that the Borrower
shall, with effect from January 1, 1991, take the necessary measures t"
compensate the TDB for all costs associated with delivering, supervising and
administering micro loans; and (h) that the Borrower shall: (i) by December
31. 1990, furnish to ADB and IDA for comments a draft interest-cate policy by
which a market-oriented, flexible interest rate structure conducive to
realizing positive, real deposit and lending rates would be maintained in
Tonga over the medium to long term; and (ii) by March 31, 1991, cause the NRB
to implement such a policy taking into account the ADB and IDA's comments
thereon.
In addition, the following are agreed conditions for the effectiveness of the
Credit: (a) meeting of all conditions for effectiveness of the ADB loan;
(b) signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between the
Borrower and the TDB; and (c) adoption b:y the TDB of formal guidelines,
acceptable to ADB and IDA, for rescheduling loans and writing off bad debt.
16.      Benefits.  The project will provide the TDB with needed foreign
exchange to assist further agricultural, industrial, services and tourism
development, primarily in the private sector, and generate additional invest-
ments, production, employment and exports. The project would enable I.DA to
continue its dialogue with the GOT on Tonga's interest rate policy and with
the TDB on its internal interest rate structure.
17.      Risks.  The major risk associated with the project is that interest
rate reform would not be implemented. However, this risk is mitigated by the
GOT's commitment to reform as demonstrated by actions to date and the accept-
ance of IMF TA. Another risk of the project is that the TDB may fail to ini-
tiate appropriate action to improve its operational and financial performance,
thus jeopardizing its development as a financially sound institution. The
institution-building component of the project mitigates this risk.
18.      Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit complies
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Exe-
cutive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 1, 1989



Schedule A
KINGDOM OF TONGA
SECOND TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Estimated Cost and Financing Plan
(USS million)
Local     Foreign   Total
Estimated Cost
Total cost of subprojects                         5.4         9.6      15.0
Technical assistance                               --         0.3       0.3
Total Project Cost                             5.4         9.9      15.3
Financing Plan
ADB                                                  -        5.3       5.3
IDA                                                 -         3.0       3.0
Government (Equity)                               1.8         1.6       3.4
Subborrowers                                      3.6           -       3.6
Total                                          5.4         9.9      15.3



Schedule B
KINGDOM OF TONGA
SECOND TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Procurement Method and Disbursements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Total
Project Element                    ICB   LCB      Other     N.A.         cost
Credit                             --    --        3.0       --           3.0
Disbursements
Category          Amount
Credit              3.0                  10O  of foreign exchange expenditures
or up to 75Z of total subproject costs
when local currency expenditures are
involved
Estimated IDA Disbursements
Fiscal Year                    1990      1991       1992       1993      19t4
Annual                          0.18      0.64       0.72       0.72      0.54
Cumulative                      0.18      1.02       1.74       2.46      3.00



Schedule C
KINGDOM OF TONGA
SECOND TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare              :  Twelve months
(b)  Prepared by                        s  GOT and the TDB with assistance
from the ADB and IDA
(c)  ADB Appraisal Mission              :  June 1989
(with IDA participation)
(d)  Negotiations                       :  November 1989
(e) Planned Date of Board
Presentation                     :  December 21, 1989
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness      s  February 1990
(g)  List of relevant PCRs and PPARs   :  None



Schedule D
KINGDOM OF TONGA
SECOND IONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TONGA
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1989) /a /b
Amount (US$ million)
IDA           Undis-
Original         bursed
Credit   Fiscal                                            Principal
number   Year  Borrower               Purpose         (less cancellation)
No credit fully disbursed
1813-TON 1987  Tonga             Tonga Development Bank        2.00           0.61
Total                                                 2.00           0.61
of which has been repaid                            0.00
Total now outstanding                                 2.00
Amount sold                                         0.00
Total loans now held by IDA                           2.00
Total undisbursed                                                    0.61
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1989)
None
/a   The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.



