RESTRICTED                 ]
LAP: 7ON 22255
8216-TON
This Report has been prepared for
W- ' ,     3  at2 ) Xtj 49 t) @    *t S S   : ;72t, _l the exclusiveuse of the Sank
APPRAISAL
OF THE
FOURTH TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
IN
TONGA
October 1989



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of 30 September 1989)
Currency Unit          -   Pa'anga (TS) = 100 Seneti
T$1.0 0                     US$0.7764
USS1.00                    T$1.2880
The Pa'anga is tied to the value of the Australian dollar. For the
purposes of calculation in this Report, an exchange rate of T$1.0 = US$1.3 has
been used.
ABBREVIATIONS
BOT          -   Bank of Tonga
CFTC         -   Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation
DFI          -   Development Finance Institution
EIB          -   European Investment Bank
IDA          -   International Development Agency
IFAD         -   International Fund for Agricultural Develop .jnt
IMF          -   International Monetary Fund
NRB          -   National Reserve Bank
siC          -   Small Industries Centre
SPARTECA     -   South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic
Cooperation Agreement
TDB          -   Tonga Development Bank
NOTES
(i)   In this Report, $ refers to US dollars.
(ii}    The fiscal year of the Government ends on 30 June and that of
the Tonga Development Bank on 31 December.



PROJECT FOCUS. DESIGN AND RATIONALE
Tonga is predominantly an agricultural country with a large
subsistence sector and is economically dependent on agricultural exPcprts.
Coconut, coconut products, bananas and vanilla are major sources of income
and foreign exchange earnings. Efforts have been made to diversify the
economy by encouraging establishment of secondary industries, by an industrial
incentive policy and by establishment of smell industries centres. As a result,
the output of the manufacturing and service industries has been growing quite
steadily. The Importance of tourism has also increased in recent years with
steady growth in tourist arrivals.
The Government of Tonga is at present implementing the Fifth Five-
Year Development Plan covering the period 30 January 1986 to 31 December
1990. The Fifth Plan has emphasized the development of productive activities,
principally through private sector investment. The Bank has been requested
to support this approach through the provision of a line of credit and technical
assistance to the Tonga Development Bank (TDB).
The proposed Project, which will be co-financed by the Bank and the
International Development Association (IDA), consists of a credit component of
$8 million, to be utilized for financing eligible subprojects in the productive and
key service sectors of the economy and a $328,000 technical assistarzce
component to be used for the further strengthening of TDB's institutional
capabilities. The Bank's participation will be by way of a $5 million loan from
the Special Funds resources and a $328,000 advisory technical assistance grant.
The Bank has previously assisted TDB by providing three credit lines
and advisory technical assistance for TDB's institutional development. The
previous loans have been effectively used and the technical assistance has been
instrumental in developing TDB into an effective and well-managed institution.
Reflecting a growth In opportunities for productive Investment in Tonga, TDB's
recent and projected lending levels have increased markedly. The proposed
Project would provide financial resources to aupport this growth in lending and
would also provide advisory technical assistance to ensure that TDB's
institutional strengths are consolidated and further developed.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.     INTRODUCTION                                              1
II.     BACKGROLJND                                              2
A.  Sectors Receivmg TDB Support                         2
B.  The Financial Sector                                 5
C.  Policy Dialogue                                      6
M.       THE PROPOSED PROJECT                                     7
A.  Project Description                                  7
B.  Objectives and Scope                                 7
C.  Cooperation with tha World Bank                      7
D.  The Proposed Line of Credit                          7
E.  The Proposed Technical Assistance                   10
F.  Project Benefits and Risks                          14
IV.     THE EXECUTING AGENCY                                    15
A.  Organization and Management                         15
B.  Operations                                          17
C.  Accounting, Audit and Financial Controls            21
D.  Financial Performance                               22
E.  Implementation of Previous Bank Loans               26
V.     CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMEATIONS                            27
APPENDIXES                                              28



I . INTRODUCTIO
1.       The Government of Tonga has requested Bank assistance by way of
a fourth credit line 1/ and technical assistance to support the operations and
ongoing institutional development of the Tonga Development Bank (TDB). In
response to the Government's request, a fact-findingi misaion visited Tonga
during September 1988. The Mission found that expected changes to the
Government's i,terest rate policies had not been adequately developed (see
para. 17) and recommended that further processing of the proposed Project be
delaved until such policies were more clearly defined.
2.       Following advice from  the Government that in December 1988
legislation V/ had been passed establishing a central bank for Tonga, to be
designated the National Reserve Bank of Tonga (NRB) and that the NRB had made
recommendations to the Government on revised interest rate policies, a pre-
appraisal mission was fielded for the Project in June 1989. This Mission, which
consisted of M. Davey (Mission Leader), G. Kahl (Senior Programs Officer), R.
Clendon (Counsel) and J. Mejia (Senior Assistant), was sent concurrently with
an International Development Agency (IDA) mission, on the basis that IDA would
co-finance the Project. The Mission found the proposed interest rate policies
to be appropriate, and following the Government's acceptance of these policies
on 30 June 1989, the Mission was upgraded to appraisal status.
3.       This Report is based on the Mission's findings and discussions with
Government officials, TDB's management and staff and the private sector.
1/ The previous Bank credit lines to TDB were: TDB I, Loan No. 376-TON(SF)
for $1.5 million approved in December 1978; TDB II, Loan No. 624-TON(SF)
for $1.0 million approved in March 1983 and TDB III, Loan No. 782-TON(SF)
for $1.0 miRwon approved in June 1986. TDB m was co-financed by the
World Bank (IDA) in an amount of $2.0 milion.
2/  The National Reserve Bank of Tonga Act, 1988.



2
II. BACKQGROUND)
A.  Sectors Receiving TDB Supporl
1.  Agriculture Ser
4.       Smallholder production is the main mode of agricultural activity in
Tonga, there being only a few private commercial holdings of up to about 25
hectares. Most farmers grow crops for both subsistence needs and for cash
sales, although those in the more remote islands have few marketing
opportunities. The principal crops grown   -e coconuts, bananas, plantains,
vanilla, taro, yams, sweet potatoes, cassava and a range of vegetables and
fruits, mostly in conditions of low productivity. More recently, coffee has been
introduced on a modest scale and has proved relatively successfuL The
Kingdom is self-sufficient in chickens, eggs and pigs, although dependent on
imports for canned fish, beef and lamb/mutton. Fishing is a major activity both
for home consumption and market sales, and good progress in artisanal and
(government-owned) large-scale fishing operations has been recorded in recent
years.
5.       Agriculture, forestry and fisheries accounted for 42 per cent of Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) in 1985. Within the sector, crops and livestock
accounted for 33 per cent, forestry for 1.7 per cent, and fisheries for 7.3 per
cent of GDP.
6.       The sector's share of total exports during 1981-1985 was 89 per cent,
if coconut-based processed products are included, and 36 per cent if they are
excluded. Set against planning targets for this period, agricultural exports as
a whole fell short of expectations. Except for vanilla, watermelon and copra, less
than half of individual commodity targets wire attained. This could be
attributed mainly to the effects of cyclone Isaac in 1982, which not only
destroyed crops but which also diverted resources to reconstruction.
7.       The Government's principal development objectives for the sector
under the Fifth Five-Year Development Plan covering the period 1986 to 1990
include, among others, improving nutrition, creating jobs, raising farm
productiv.ty, increasing and diversifying exports, and encouraging private
sector involvement in commercial crop development. The principal strategic
objective of the sector under the Fifth Plan is to raise food production to meet
the country's total food requirement and thus reduce dependence on imported
food productus, while at the same time providing farmers with additional cash
income. The strategy involves converting semi-subsistence farmers into more
commercially-oriented farm entrepreneurs, through schemes which would raise.
farm yields and provide ready markets for the resulting incremental production.
To assist commercially-oriented farmers and enhance opportunities for the
private sector, the Fifth Plan provides for Improving infrastructure and farm
support services, while foreign investments for joint ventures in agricultural
processing are also encouraged.



3
2.  Industrial Sector
8.       The industria sector is many in private hands and consists of agri-
based processing and the manufacture of non agri-based import substitutes and
export products. Manufacturing sctivities in the public sector are dominated
by the Tonga Commodities Board and the Oil Mills of Tonga Ltd. The industrial
sector, which is small In relation to GDP (10 per cent in 1985), has consistently
grown faster (an annual real growth in excess of 6 per cent per annum since
1981/82), than the economy as a whole. Other than coconut-based industries,
the sector Is made up of small-scale factories. In 1988 there were 125
manufacturing establishments In the country across a wide range a' products
destined mainly for the domestic market, but partly also for export. The largest
number of establishments produced food and beverages (28), followed by
building materials (21) and furniture (15). Twenty-one of the 125 manufacturing
establishments operated at the existing Bank-supported Smal Industries Center
(SIC), employing approximately 610 workers, while the other 104 firms (mainly
on Tongatapu Island), employed about 740 people. This list includes many, but
not all, small firms. There are also many informal manufacturing activities, and
total industrWa sector employment, excluding the handicraft sector, is estimated
to have reached about 2,300 people in 1988.
9.       During the Fifth P18n the industrial sector's share of exports is
expected to remain at about 60 per cent, with coconut-based products
accounting for 44 per cent. However, in line with the Government's economic
diversification thrust, small non agri-based industries are expected to increase
their share to about 15 per cent. The Plan's targets for the industrial sector
are an annual growth rate of 15 per cent and a share of GDP of 16 per cent by
the end of 1990.
10.      The Government's major objectives and strategies for the development
of the industrhal sector under the Fifth  Plan are to: (i) accele.ate
industrial growth in order to raise output, employment, foreign exchange
earnings and to reduce dependerce on imports; (ii) establish viable industries
utilizing local resources to maximize domestic value-added; (Iii) promote
complementary economic activities essential to and supportive of local industry;
(iv) ensure, to the extent possible, balanced regional development of
manufacturing, processing and assembly industries throughout the country; (v)
actively encourage the private sector so that it can effectively play a leading
role in industrial development and allow a progressive reduction in the
involvement of Government; (vi) review the Industrial Development Incentives
Policy; (vii) make greater use of the various support schemes and programs
offered by overseas institutions relating to industrial development  in
promoting industries in Tonga; (viii) use export marketing assistance and other
incentives offered by the South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation
Agreement (SPARTECA) for New Zealand and Australian markets and take
advantage of the concessionary entry of Tongan products to other developed
countries; and (ix) augment and expand infrastructural facilities.



4
4.  Serviges Sector
11.      The services sector, particularly in distribution (which is the sector's
strongest growth area), is quite well developed in comparison with the industrial
sector. In 1985/86 it was estimated that the sector provided employment for
about 10,500 people, or 43 per cent of total employment, and about 15 per cent
of wage and salary workers. Recent increases in employment in the sector have
resulted from increased activities in related fields, such as tourism, distribution
and influstry. The sectorts share in total GDP (at factor cost), has grown from
42.8 per cent (1981/82), to an estimated 46.3 per cent by 1985/86 and 49.4 per
cent in 1987/88.
12.      The Government's principal objectivee for the services sector during
the Plan period are to develop an environment within which growth of the
productive and commercidl sectors of the Tongan economy can be facilitated.
Activities to be undertaken to boost this growth will include: (i) increasing
export trade so as to boost foreign exchange earnings and expand the revenue
base of the Kingdom; (ii) encouraging entrepreneurship in the private sector,
in business services and in securing local involvement In distribution; (iii)
ensuring the continued provision and efiective distribution of goods, finance
and commercial services; (iv) strengthening the managerial and operational
capabilities of the private sector to effectively lead the growth of commercial
development; and (v) increasing employment opportunities.
5.  Tourism Sector
13.      Tourism has grown steadily in Tonga with air visitors increasing at
an average annual rate of 7.8 per cent over the last six years, reaching 19,456
arrivals in 1988. Air passenger arrival growth in 1988 exceeded 12.8 per cent
with the proportion of pleasure visitors at 78 per cent. Total visitors to Tonga
during 1988 grew to 43,671, an increase of 10.5 per cent over 1987. Cruise ship
passengers came on 20 different ships in 1988 (up by 11.1 per cent), while
private yacht visitors to the Kingdom arrived on 665 boats in 1988 as compared
with 599 in 1987.
14.      The Government expects air visitors to increase by about 10 per cent
per annum over the next three years and plans to remove major infrastru-t ural
constraints to further tourism development through: (i) expansion of the
Tongatapu Airport to accommodate wide-bodied jets by late 1989; (ii) promotion
of a second inter-island air transport company; (iii) promotion of another 100-
room hotel with convention facilities; (iv) further development of infrastructure
for small holiday resorts on outer islands; and (v) further development of
historical sites and related infrastructure, and handicrafts.
15.      The Ministry of Tourism has articulated the Government's objectives
in regard to further tourism development as follows: (i) to continually develo-
tourism and expand it into one of the major sectors of Tongas economy,
welcoming foreign investment which brings capital, employment, technology,
managerial knowhow, and access to overseas markets; (ii) to ensure a planned
sectoral growth with positive contributions to employment-creation and foreign
exchange earnings and with minimum effect on the nation's unique culture and
environment. The Government will intervene in investment and market matters



5
only to ensure that favorable and attractive conditions for the encouragement
of growth are established, or that Tonga's environment and culture are
protected against unreasonable exploitation or disruption; and (iii) to promote
an equitable distribution of tourism activities and earnings throughout the
Kingdom.
B.  The Financial Sector
16.      Until February 1989, the financial sector consisted primarily of the
Bank of .onga (BOT) and TDB. There have also been a number of small credit
unions engaged in small-scale sAvings and consumer finance operations, but
their role has been negligible. BOT provides a comprehensive range of
commercial banking services. At 30 June 1988, 40 per cent of BOT's assets were
in the form of loans and advances within Tonga and 54 per cent were in
overseas deposits and securities. At that date, 37 per cent of BOT's lending
was for housing, with commercia lending accounting for most of the balance.
The NRB was established with International Monetary Fund (IMF) assistance I/
in February 1989. The NRB commenced operations on 1 July 1989 and has
assumed responsibility for the regulation of currency issue and the money
supply, management of official external reserves, promotion of monetary and
financial stability and supervision and regulation of the financial sector. The
NRB has powers to regulate interest rates within Tonga and to determine
exchange rate policy. The NRB is also in the process of drafting for the
Government, a Financial Institutions Act. This Act would provide a framework
for diversifying the range of financial institutions in Tonga and a basis for t'.e
NRB's supervision of those institutions.
17.      Until the establishment of the NRB, lending interest rates in Tonga
were controlled under the Cc ntracts Act of 1921, which set a maximum lending
rate level of 10 per cent. Although, deposit interest rates were not controlled,
the 10 per cent lending rate effectively capped deposit rates at between 5.0 and
6.75 per cent. Appendix 1 provides details of the interest rates prevaing in
Tonga at 31 December 1988. For most of the past five years, interest rates in
Tonga have been negative in real terms (the current inflation rate is at around
11 per cent).
18.      Various advisers to the Government, including consultants provided
under earlier Bank technical assistance, had concluded that the restrictive
interest rate policy followed by the Government has resulted in a low domestic
savings ratio and has also encouraged Tongans to hold savings overseas,
particularly in New Zealand and Australia where deposit interest rates have been
relatively high in recent years. In addition to the depressive effect on savings
levels, the interest rate restrictions may have encouraged an inefficient
allocation of credit.
.1/ The IMF provided technical assistance for the drafting of the NRB Act and
for the establishment of the NRB. The Governor of the NRB, who previously
held a senior position within the Reserve Bank of Fiji, has been appointed
under an IMF technical assistance program.



6
19.      Recognizing the need to implement a more effective interest rate
policy, the NRB, on 30 June 1989, announced its intention to develop a market-
determined interest rate regime in Tonga that would reflect the status of the
financial markets of Tonga's major trading partners. As an interim move toward
implementing such a policy, the ceiling on lending interest rates was increased
to 13.5 per cent, which is more in line with the prime lending rates charged by
commercial banks in Australia (these currently range between 16 and 17 per
cent). The NRB will, in concert with the Government, review the effect of
interest rate policy on a quarterly oasis with the objective of eventually
establishing an interest rate regime reflective of market forces.
C.  Policy Dialosue
20.      The Bank, as part of the Third Multi-Project and Tonga Development
Bank Project (Loan No. 782-TON(SF)) provided technical assistance for a review
of the Government's interest rate policies. Under a covenant to the Loan the
Government was required to discuss the Review's recomnmendations with the
Bank and to implement &greed changes within a time frame satisfactory to the
Bank.
21.      Following the completion of the technical assistance in late 1987, the
Government advised that it would have difficulty implementing the consultant's
recommendations  under  existing  administrative  arrangements.    The
recommendations provided for a removal of interest rate restrictions and for a
more active exchange rate policy.,1 However, until the NRB was established,
the Government was not able to introduce more active interest rate and
exchange rate policies. The Bank accepted this position from the Government.
However, the Bank advised that processing of a further TDB loan would not
proceed until such time as effective action had been taken to implement the
findings of the review.
22.      The establishment of the NRB and the announcement of the revised
Interest rate ceiling was considered to be sufficient action to enable the Bank's
requirements to be met. The NRB has also recruited, with IMF support, a
foreign expert who will assist with the development and implementation of a more
active exchange rate policy.
23.      The Government will, by 31 December 1990, furnish to the Bank for
comments a draft interest rate policy by which a market-oriented, flexible
interest rate structure conducive to realizing positive, real deposit and lending
rates would be maintained in Tonga over the medium to long term. Taking into
account the Bank's comments, the Government will cause the NRB to implement
such a policy by 31 March 1991.2/
l,/ The Tongan Pa'anga is pegged directly to the Australian dollar.
I/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 6.



III. THE PROPOSED PROJ1ECT
A.  Proaect pescriDtion
24.      The proposed Project, to be co-financed by the Bank and IDA, will
provide funds totalling $8 mfllion which will be used to finance eligible
subproJects in the manufacturing, agriculture, tourism and service sectors. It
will also provide technical assistance estimated to cost $337,000 which will be
used to further strengthen and develop the institutional capabilities of TDB.
The Bank's participation in the Project will be way of a $5 million loan and a
$328,000 technical assistance grant. IDA's participation will ..e by way of a $3
million credit.
B.  Obiectives and Scope
25.      Tonga Development Bank is the most important source of long-term
development funds within Tonga. The Government expects TDB to continue to
play an important role in the developme..t of the Kingdom by helping to promote
and finance commercially-viable projects with economic merit in the
manufacturing, agriculture, tourism and service sectors. In response to the
Government's actions to promote productive investment supportive of Tonga's
growth, the demand for development finance is increasing. TDB's institutional
ability to meet this growth in credit demand l.as strengthened in recent years,
reflecting TDB's growing maturity as a Development Finance Institution (DFI),
and the growth of expertise among TDB's management and staff. The primary
objectives of the Project are to provide TDB with financial resources to support
its increased lending and to provide technical assistance to consolidate TDB's
institutional capabilities, thereby enhancing TDB's role in promoting economic
development activities.
26.      A general credit line is envisaged for TDB, which will onlend most of
the proposed loan to small and medium-scale enterprises.
C.  Cooieration with the World Bank
27.     In accordance with the agreement between the Bank and the World
Bank for the co-financing of Projects In South Pacific, the Bank has led the
appraisal and negotiations for the Project and will administer the co-financed
loan on IDA's behalf. The Bank and IDA Missions have consulted closely in
developing their respective approaches to the Project and, in particular, in
seeking changes to the Government's interest rate policies (see paras. 20-23).
D.  The Prouosed Line of Credit
1.  Loan Amount. Borrower and Executing Agency
28.      On the basis of TDB's estimated additional resource requirements
during 1990 to 1992, it is proposed that a fourth Bank loan of $5 million
equivalent be extended to the Kingdom of Tonga (the Borrower) for relending



a
to TDB (the Executing Agency) under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory
to the Bank.l/ The Loan is proposed to be made from the Specia Funds
resources of the Bank under the standard terms and conditions. The Borrower
wiU bear the foreign exchange rlsk.a/
2.  Main Features of the Line of Credit
(a) PurDose
29.      Tonga Development Bank will use the proceeds of the loan for making
subloans to meet the term-financing requirements of specific development
projects in Tonga.,/ TDB expects to achieve a balanced allocation of the loan
proceeds between the agriculture, service, man 22acturing and tourism sectors.
The subprojects financed will meet TDB's normal evaluation criteria in its
Statement of Operating Policies (see para. 70 and Appendix 5). When approving
subloans, TDB will ensure that the subproject satisfies the Kingdom's laws ane
regulations on preservation of the environment.4/
(b) Utilization
30.      The closing date for submission by TDB of applications for subloans
for approval/authorization of withdrawal will be three years after the effective
date of the proposed loan./ The closing date for withdrawals will be four years
after the effective date of the loan.j(
(c) Amortization Schedule
31.      A fixed amortization schedule, as was the case in the previous three
loans, is proposed between the Borrower and TDB. The maturity period for the
loan to TDB will be 15 years including a grace period of five years.Z/
32.      The repayment terms of each sub-borrower to TDB wiU not exceed 15
years, including a grace period not exceeding three years.
(d) Lending. Relending and Onlending Rates
33.      The proposed loan from the Bank's Special Funds resources will carry
a service charge of 1 per cent per annum. The Government wil relend the
proceeds to TDB at a rate equivalent to the Bank's published ordinary capital
resources (OCR) rate, rounded up to the nearest 0.5 per cent. The rate will be
amended each 30 June and 31 December during the commitment period of the
1/  Loan A4reement, Section 3.02.
V/  Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para l(c).
V/  Loan Agreement, Section 3.01.
4/   Project Agreement, Schedule, para 7.
A/  Project Agreement, Section 2.02(c).
Loan Agreement, Section 3.05.
1/  Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para l(b).



9
Loan to reflect the published OCR rate at the time.l/ The interest rate payable
by TDB would not be charged on a variable basis, but would be fixed for
commitments made during each six month period.
34.      Tonga Development Bank would charge an interest rate on subloans
reflecting a minimum spread of 4.5 per cent over the relending rate. This
minimum spread would be reviewed Jointly by TDB and the Bank prior to
31 March 1991, based on the ongoing developments in the Government's interest
rate policies and may be adjusted to reflect changes in TDB's ratio of
administration expenses to total portfolio value and portfolho quality.,/
Otherwise, TDB would be free to charge interest rates on subloans fully
reflective of TDB's assessment of the relative risks, costs, maturities and nature
of individual subloans.V/ TDB wou.d consult the Bank on any proposed changes
to its interest rate structure during the life of the loan.A/
35.      The interest rate structure proposed for the Project will support
the recently announced intentions of the NRB for movement towards market-
determined interest rates in Tonga (see para. 19). The Bank's OCR rate will be
used as an indicative market rate for relending from the Government to TDB W/
and TDB, within the constraints of the Government's interest rate policies, will
be able to set interest rates for subloans that reflect a range of market factors.
(e) Free Limit
36.      Considering the size distribution of subloans under the third Bank
loan to TDB, three of which were above the free limit of $40,000, it is proposed
that the free limit be increased to $50,000.§/
(f) Maximum Size of Subloan
37.      In order to ensure a balanced distribution of subloans, TDB will not,
unless the Bank may otherwise agree, make any subloan exceeding $400,000.21
TDB's Statement of Operating Policies restricts its maximum commitment in any
enterprise to 25 per cent of its equity. This limit amounted to about T$1.5
million ($1.1 million equivalent), as of 31 December 1989.
(g) Reimbursement of ExiDenditures
38.      Reimbursement of expenditures incurred up to 120 days prior to the
receipt of a subloan application by the Bank will be allowed.!/
21  Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 1(a).
2/  Project Agreement, Schedule, paras 2 and 3.
V/  Project Agreement, Schedule, para 1.
4/  Project Agreement, Schedule, para 3.
A/  Under Loan No. 782-SRI(SF), the relending rate was set at 3 per cent.
fl/ Project Agreement, Section 2.02.
1/  Project Agreement, Schedule, para 4.
/   Project Agreement, Section 2.03.



10
th) E:giible Costs
39.      Consistent with the Bank's policies for the financing of local currency
costs in the South Pacific, a portion of the local currency cost of goods and
services for qualified subprojects (exclusive of taxes, duties ard land costs)
will, in addition to the foreign currency costs of such goods and services, be
eligible for financing under the Loan. The total financing under the Loan of
any qualified subproject wiUl not, when local cost financing is involved, exceed
75 per cent of the total cost of the subproject.l/
(i) Procurement
40.      The TDB will satisfy the Bank that the procurement procedures
adopted by individual sub-borrowers under the proposed loan are appropriate
in the circumstances.l/
(j) Data Monitoring
41.      The TDB will compile relevant subproject performance datas, including
relevant information for completed subprojects for which it has provided a
subloan in excess of $10,000.V
(k) Quarterly Re-orts
42.      The TDB will provide to the Bank quarterly reports giving details of
its operations, financial position, resource position, arrears and collection
performance and institutional developments within three months after the end
of each quarter.A/
E.  The ProDosed Technical Assistance
43.      The technical assistance the Bank extended to the Government to
establish TDB A/ provided basic institution-building and management during
the period of TDB's initial operations. A second technical assistance grant was
provided in connection with the first TDB loan to fund the cost of an expatriate
Managing Director for a 20-month period. In connection with the second TDB
loan, a further technical assistance grant was provided to enable TDB to develop
its economic evaluation capabilities. A fourth grant was provided with the third
TDB loan for the purpose of computerizing TDB's accounting and management
information systems and for a review of TDB's personnel management policies.
44.      This technical assistance from the Bank has supplemented support
from other aid agencies, including the New Zealand and Australian Governments
and the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation (CFTC). These agencies
I/  Project Agreement, Section 2.01(c).
V/  Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, para 2.
V/  Project Agreement, Schedule, para 6.
_/ Project Agreement, Section 3.05(b).
W/  TA No. 174-TON approved 22 July 1976.



11
have normally provided long-term experts to strengthen key areas of TDB's
staffing and to provide appropriate training.
45.      The TDB har benefitted from the technical assistance provided to
date and has emerged as a strong and well-staffed DFI relative to similar
.nstitutions in the South Pacific. One particular strength of TDB, relative to
similar institutions, is the well-seasoned cadre of middle and senior-management
personnel who are now long-term employees of TDB and who have developed
significant expertise, as well as appropriate confidence in the manner in which
TDB's operations are conducted.
46.      It is proposed that a technical assistance be incorporated in the
Project in order to consolidate TDB's strengths and to ensure that a firm
institutional and financial foundation is provided to support the projected
expansion in TDB's activities.
47.      The proposed technical assistance, for which terms of reference and
cost estimates are provided in Appendix 2, I/ would consist of a grant that
would cover the foreign costs of the following activities:
Estimated Costs (W'000)
Foreign  Local Total
Loan Portfolio Review                     98.0      5.0   103.0
Review of TDB's Micro Lending             22.0      1.0   23.0
Review of Accounting Procedures Manual
and Internal Audit Procedures            58.0     3.0   61.0
Development of additional software for
enhancement of TDB's computer systems    50.0      -     50.0
Foreign staff training                    100.0      -    100.0
Total                                328.0     9.0   337.0
1.  Loan Portfolio Review
48.      The loan portfolio review would provide: (i) a detailed current
assessment of TDB's loan portfolio, (ii) a realistic determination of the level of
provisions for doubtful debts which TDB should make, (iii) an appropriate
methodology for determining doubtful debt provisions, and (iv) an evaluation
of TDB's appraisal and loan administration procedures. The review would cover
similar ground to that covered annually by TDB's external auditors, but in
considerably more depth. While also providing a close assessment of the value
of TDB's assets, the major value of the review would be its implicit "audit" of
1/  Terms of reference are pro tided for three of the five components of the
technical assistance only. The remaining two components (development of
computer software and external staff training) will involve purchase of
software packages and expenditure on training activities. The Bank's
procurement guidelines will be followed by TDB in utiuzing the funds for
these purpose.



12
the appraisal and administration procedures followed by TDB. The review would
enable deficiencies to be dealt with at an early stage of the projected strong
growth in TDB's lending levels.
2.  Review of TDB's Micro Lending
49.      Approximately 75 per cent of TDB's loans by number and 11 per cent
by value are for amounts of less than T$1,000. The majority of these loans are
in support of family-based subsistence, agriculture, village-level service
activities and other social support activities. Such lending is consistent with
the provisions of TDB's Policy Statement and provides an essential service not
met from other sources within Tonga, particularly with regard to the outer
islands. The Government has encouraged TDB t - continue such lending because
of its social importance and currently TDB has more than 3,000 individual micro
loans in its portfolio.
50.      The cost of providing and administering these micro loans is high
and the interest rates charged are relatively low, again reflecting the desire of
the Government to ensure that affordable credit is available for social
development purposes. As a result, TDB's administrative costs are relatively
high to the detriment of its profitability. The continuation of TDB's micro
lending under the current format may adversely affect TDB's ability to diversify
into more commercially-oriented operations and would, at minimum, affect TDB's
ability to generate commercially acceptable profits.  The review has the
objectives of determining the annual cost to TDB of delivering and administering
such credit, developing a methodology for assessing these costs on an annual
basis and of providing recommendations to TDB for more efficient impl'ementation
of micro lending. Based on the results of the review, TDB will review its policy
with regard to micro lending and, by 31 January 1991, furnish the results of
such review to the Government and the Bank for comments. Taking account of
the Bank's comments, TDB will by 31 March 1991, prepare an action program
acceptable to the Government and the Bank, including measures by the
Government to compensate TDB for all costs associated with delivering,
supervising and administering micro loans.1/
3.  Review of Accouatina Procedures Manual and Internal
Audit Procedures
51.      TDB's accounting functions have been managed since TDB's
establishment by a succession of expatriates provided under aid programs.
The accounting system implemented initially was unsophisticated and designed
to enable its operation to be handled by relatively untrained staff. As TDB's
operations have expanded over the years and as the various expatriate
accounting managers have been changed, the accounting systems and
procedures have been amended and expanded in an ad hoc fashion. The
computerization of the accounting system undertaken during 1987 and 1988
resulted in more significant changes to the system. Over the years, the original
accounting procedures manual has been updated sporadically. However, as the
I/  Project Agreement, Schedule, para 14(a).



13
various accounting managers have normally been fully pre-occupied with the
day-to-day tasks of operating the system, the current accounting procedures
manual iB now out-of-date and provides an inadequate guide for TDB's
accounting staff.
52.      The TDB's internal audit functions have also suffered from a
succession of staff changes. Although internal auditors have been appointed
from time to time, the general shortage in Tonga of trained staff with
appropriate skills for this function has meant that appointees to the position
have often been moved to other duties considered of higher priority in the day-
to-day management of TDB's operations. However, the recent and projected
growth in TDB's lending levels has increased the importance of the internal
audit function and TDB'p management has given it high pri-arity. A trained
internal auditor has been appointed and the intevnal audit unit is expected to
be fully staffed by 31 December 1989.1/
53.      The proposed technical assistance will provide the services of an
accounting and audit specialist to review and update TDB's accounting
procedures manual and to prepare an internal audit manual to guide the work
of the internal audit unit.
4.  DeveloDment of Additional Software
54.      Although TDB is a smal DFI in terms of the value of ita total assets
when compared to many of the Bank's other client DFIs, the number of loan
accounts it administers (apprcximately 6,500) is relatively high. In addition,
most of TDB's loan accounts have monthly, or even weekly transactions. As a
result, the volume of accounting transactions undertaken by TDB (and other
South Pacific DFIs), is substantially greater than that for larger institutions in
other DMCs. Recognizing the difficulties this creates for the operation of a
manual accounting system, the Bank provided a $125,000 technical assistance
grant as part of the Third TDB Project for the development and installation of
software for a computerized accounting system. This task was successfully
completed during 1988 and TDB's accounting and management information
systems now process data and generate reports more rapidly and with greater
accuracy than previously.  However, development of the system  is still
necessary. In particular, the present system requires greater flexibility in the
manner in which it is able to charge and account for interest income and greater
flexibility is required in the categorization of loan accounts for monitoring and
reporting purposes. The Vava'u and Ha'apai branch offices also need to be
integrated into the computer system.
55.      The TDB currently has the services of an in-house computer
programmer who is funded under Australian aid. The proposed technical
assistance of $50,000 would assist the work of this programmer through the
provision of a budget for purchasing additional software packages as required
and for the recruitment of consulting expertise where necessary to further
develop TDB's computer systems.
1/  Project Agreement, Schedule, para 8.



14
5.  External Staff Training
56.      Of TDB's professional staff of 55 at 31 December 1988, only nine have
university degrees or other professional qualifications. This situation reflects
the shortage of such trained people in Tonga.  TDB has developed an
appropriate in-house training program that transfers important operational
skills to junior level staff. This training has been supplemented by the
attendance of TDB staff at the training programs undertaken in the South
Pacific on a regular basis by the Bank's Training Assistance Unit. However, a
training-needs analysis undertaken by TDB's training unit has identified
training needs for middle-management staff that can only be met through
attendance at courses outside Tonga. Appropriate courses providing a total of
37 man-weeks of training for eight of TDB's middle-level management have been
identified. This program of external training was developed in consultation with
the Mission. The proposed technical assistance of $100,000 would cover the
estimated costs of foreign travel, per diems and course fees for the attendance
at these courses. To ensure that TDB retains the benefit from this expenditure,
each participant in foreign training funded in this manner who receives four
weeks or more of such training would be required to sign an undertaking to
remain in TDB's employment for a minimum of two years following the completion
of the training activities.l/
F.  ProJect Benefits and Risks
57.      TDB has listed the benefits realized during the initial years of
operation of the subprojects of $5,000 and above financed under the Bank's
Third Loan to TDB. These subprojects, which accounted for 71 per cent of the
loan's utilization, resulted in the creation of 176 new jobs, incremental annual
sales of T$4.5 million and annual exchange earnings, or savings, of T$285,000.
Based on this data, the proposed Bank Loan of $5 million may result in the
creation of a further 1,000 jobs, incremental annual sales of T$30 million and
increased annual foreign exchange earnings, or savings, of around T$2.0 million.
It is expected that the utilization of the loan will result in total investment of
approximately T$20 million, primarily in productive activities.
58.      The Loan will therefore directly support the Government's objectives
as set out in the Fifth Plan for stimulation of productive activities, private
sector participation in the economy and regional and rural development. The
Project will further strengthen the role of TDB in the mobilization of resources,
promotion of productive investment and efficient delivery of credit to
appropriate sectors of the economy.
59.      The potentia' risks for the Project would result from  any
deterioration in TDB's institutional performance. Any relaxation of TDB's loan
appraisal and supervision standards may result In inappropriate utilization of
the Loan and increased arrears. TDB's management is however aware of the
need to maintain high standards in these areas, particularly during a period of
rapid growth in lending levels. TDB's staff and staff training programs are of
a sufficient standard to ensure that loan appraisal and supervision standards
remain at an acceptable level.
I/  Project Agreement, Schedule, para 9.



is
IV. THE EXECUTING AGENCY
A.  Orfanization and Management
1.  History. Legal Framework. Share Capital and
RelationshiP with the Government
60.      Tonga Development Bank was established by the Tonga Development
Bank Act 1977 (the TDB Act). As of 31 December 1988, TDB's authorized capital
was T$7.0 million, of which T$5.5 million had been issued. The Government owns
94 per cent of TDB's shares, while Bank of Tonga (BOT) owns the remaining 6
per cent.
61.      The Government has general control over TDB through the following
provisions in the TDB Act: (i) power to appoint the Managing Director; (ii) power
to appoint directors representing the Ministries concerned in TDB's operations/
as well as two other of the eight directors; (iii) the appointment of the Minister
of Finance as Chairman of the Board of Directors; and (iv) the requirement that
TDB function with due regard to the general economic policies of the
Government. The Government and TDB maintain a close working relationship and
TDB generally conforms to the economic priorities set by the Government
through the national development planning program. TDB's management has
however developed appropriate autonomy from the Government and is able to
give full consideration to the commercial aspects of all loan and investment
proposals put forward.
2. Board of Directors, Organisation and Manatement
62.      A list of the members of TDB's Board of Directors as at 30 June 1989
is in Appendix 3. On the Board are two Government Ministers, two senior public
servants, two private sector representatives, the Chief Manager of the Bank of
Tonga and TDB's Managing Director. The Board meets at least monthly to set
policy and to consider loan applications of T$40,000 or more. The Mission found
that an effective working relationship has developed between TDB's Board and
Management and that recent increases in delegated decision-making levels had
enabled the Board to focus more closely on policy as opposed to operational
areas of TDB's activities.
63.      The TDB's organization chart is in Appendix 4.  TDB's current
organization structure was amended during 1988 to reflect the recommendations
of a consultant employed under a Bank technical assistance to review TDB's
personnel management policies and procedures. The re-organization created a
second Deputy Managing Director position and a clearer delineation between
the management of lending operations and support functions. Of necessity,
TDB's organization structure has been developed to refleet the availability of
specialized management skills within TDB and the range of responsibilities of
/  Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry and
Ministry of Labor, Commerce and Industries.



16
various management positions normally reflects the capabilities of the
incumbents holding those position. This somewhat pragmatic approach is
necessitated by the shortage of well-qualified muknagement staff within Tonga
and is considered by the Mission to be an eifective means of using the
management talent available to TDL.
64.      During June 1989, TDB's incumbent Managing Director, Mr. Lisiate
A'akolo, agreed to a twelve-month secondment as General Manager of the Tonga
Commodities Board. For the period of his absence, the incumbent Deputy
Managing Director (Operations), Mr. P. Vea, has been appointed Acting Managing
Director. Mr. Vea was previously Acting Managing Director during 1986 and 1987
and during that period he impressed the Bank as a well-seasoned executive with
strong general management skille.
65.      At 30 June 1989, the position of Deputy Managing Director (Finance
and Economic Development) was filled by an expatriate expert funded under an
Australian aid program. Other foreign experts employed under aid programs
are: a small business advisor, an agricultural field advisor, a computer
programmer and a staff training advisor. Each of these experts, apart from
the Deputy Managing Director, work alongside appropriately qualified TDB
counterparts. All other management positions within TDB are staffed by
Tongans.
66.      Particularly during its current period of rapid growth, it iB
appropriate that TDB makes use of a relatively large number of foreign experts
in this manner. Depending on the extent of the diversification strategies which
TDB adopts (see paras. 72 to 74), it may be some time before sufficient skills
have been developed among the local staff for aU management positions to be
localized effectively. The staff training programs that would be supported by
the proposed Bank technical assistance (see para. 56) would however be directly
instrumental in reducing TDB's current partial dependence on the long-term use
of foreign experts.
67.      The Mission found that the current arrangements for TDB's
management are effective and appropriate and that well structured programs
have been implemented to provide for management succession. The Government
and .DB have agreed that before any new appointment is made to the position
of Managing Director the Bank will be consulted regarding the qualifications,
experience and tenure of office of the person proposed for appointment.4/
3.  Staff and Training
68.      The TDB's total staff increased from 88 (including 32 professionals)
as at 31 December 1985 to 95 (including 55 professionals) as at 31 December 1988.
This movement reflects an appropriate reduction in the numbers of clerical and
other supporting staff during i e period, largely as a result of closer
management control of employment of such staff, but also reflecting the effect
of computerization of TDB's accounting system. The increase in professional
1/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 4.



17
staff numbers over the period primarily reflects increased staff located in TDB's
branches in the outer islands.
69.      A staff training specialist employed under a CFTC aid program since
early February 1987 has been instrumental in establishing an effective staff
training unit within TDB that has to date conducted a total of 37 in-house
training courses. TDB has appointed a well-qualified counterpart to the CFTC-
funded expert Apart from conducting in-house training courses, the unit has
conducted rel jlar training-need surveys and has introduced personnel
planning procedures.
B.  Operations
1.  Policies
70.      The TDB's Statement of Operating Policies (see Appendix 5), provides
satisfactory guidance for TDB's operations. Apart from defining the scope of
TDB's activities, the Policy Statement provides a number of guidelines that are
intended to promote the prudential management of TDB's assets. Among other
things, these guidelines: (i) restrict TDB's maximum exposure to a single
enterprise to 25 per cent of TDB's net equity and to 75 per cent of the value of
an enterprise's total assets; (ii) provide for TDB's long-term debt/equity ratio
to be a maximum of 3:1; (iii) require that a minimum 50 per cent of TDB's annual
operating profits be set aside as a provision for bad and doubtful debts until
such time as the provision is equal to 10 per cent of TDB's total portfolio; and
(iv) provide for a maximum equity investment in a single enterprise equivalent
to 10 per cent of TDB's net equity. Any substantial amendment to TDB's Policy
Statement will be effected only with the prior agreement of the Bank.4/
2.  Activities
71.      Although TDB is empowered to carry out a full range of financial
service activities, including provision of loans, equity investments and
guarantees, it has mainly been involved in the provision of tkrm loans. TDB
has thus far made only five equity investments. TDB will seek the Bank's prior
agreement before establishing or acquiring any subsidiary company.g/
3.  Diversification Provosals
72.      The provision of relatively small and medium-scale loans to a large
number of borrowers remains TDB's predominant activity. Such operations are
costly and are unlikely to become sufficiently profitable on their own to allow
TDB to reduce its reliance on the Government and official sources for its future
resource requirements. TDB's Board and management want TDB to broaden the
scope of its activities to encompass a range of higher yielding financial services
such as deposit-taking, provision of hire purchase and lease-finance, housing
finance and trade-financing. Such a diversification of TDB's activities may
1/  Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 3.
I/  Project Agreement, Section 3.08(c).



18
reduce TDB's reliance on the Government for equity inputs and may enable TDB
to become a net contributor to the Treasury; it would also promote more efficient
utilization of TDB's staff and facilities; and it would promote financial market
development through the provision of effective competition to the Bank of
Tonga.
73.      Although TDB's management had undertaken to develop diversification
strategies as a condition of the Third Bank loan, efforts to do so were not
vigorously pursued. This was because the Government had proceeded during
1988 with the establishment nf NRB and also with the drafting of a Financial
Institutions Act. TDB's management has been unable to identify clearly and to
evaluate its diversification options until the NRB Act and the Financial
Institutions Act were finalized, and until a clear signal was given by the
Government on future interest rate policies.
74.      An Australian aid grant has been given for the purpose of studying
and making recommendations on TDB's diversification choices. TDB expects to
use this assistance during the first nine months of 1990 and will undertake to
discuss its diversification proposals with the Bank prior to 31 December 1990
and prior to the finalization of its diversification strategies.!/
4.  Procedures
75.      The TDB's operational procedures for loan processing, documentation,
procurement, disbursement and supervision have proved to be appropriate.
TDB's loan appraisal procedures in particular have benefitted from the technical
assista'ice provided since TDB's establishment by the Bank and other agencies.
TDB's management is aware of the inherent dangers of a rapid increase in
lending levels and is concerned that the current procedures remain appropriate
to safeguard TDB's asset quality. The Bank technical assistance proposed for
a detailed review of TDB's loan portfolio (see para. 48) has been requested by
TDB's management so that an objective evaluation of the current appraisal and
portfolio administration procedures can be provided.
5.  OQerational Performance
76.      Highlights of TDB's lending during 1984 to 1988 are summarized in
Table 1. A detailed analysis of approvals by sector, type of borrower,
geographic location, size and maturity of loan is in Appendix 6.
1/  Project Agreement, Schedule, para 10.



19
Table 1: Summary of Loan and Eguity Investment Overations
1984-1988
(T900L_)
Year ending 31 December      1984      1985      1386     1987      1988
Alprovals
Agriculture               1,967     1,880    2,738     3,271    4,105
Industry and business     1,427     1,690    1.698     4,815    5,183
Other loans                 98       128       160       90       147
Equity investments          35
Total                     3.527     3.698        6     8.176    9.435
Annual growth rate (X)        42.2      4.8      24.2      78.0     15.3
Disbursements                2.818    3038      3.968     5.124    10.814
77.      Between 1984 and 1988, TDB'u approval levels grew at an average
annual rate of 27.9 per cent. This growth was fairly evenly spread between
the agriculture and the industrial and service sectors. Agriculture loans,
principally for financing vanilla, root crops, fruit and vegetable production
accounted for 47.4 per cent of total lending during the five-year period.
Tourism-related activities accounted for 12.9 per cent of total lending during
the period and manufacturing accounted for 12.4 per cent. Tongatapu received
82 per cent of TDB's approvals for the five years, reflecting the concentration
of business activity on that island. Loans of T$2,500 or less accounted for 23
per cent of the total value of loans provided during the period. Only 64 per
cent of the total 15,751 loans provided were for amounts of T$50,0'00 or more.
Loans with a maturity of less than two years accounted for 40 per cen,t of TDB's
total lending during the period and loans with a maturity of more than 10 years
accounted for 11.5 per cent.
6.  Prolected ODerational Performance
78.      TDB's projected lending and equity investment operations for the
period 1989 to 1993 are summarized in Table 2.



20
Table 2: Proiected Loan and Equity Investment Operations
1989-1993
(TS'000)
Year ending 31 December       1989     1990      1991     1992      1993
APDrovals
Agriculture                3,968     4,138     4,317    4,507     4,711
Industry and business      2,055    11,400    15,241    18,183    18,294
Other loans                  164       150      150       150      150
Equity investments             -      I          50        50       50
Total                      6,187    15.788    19.758    22.890    23.205
Annual growth rate (X)     (34.4)    155.2      25.1     15.9       1.4
Disbursements                5,178    11.69(    16.609    16.487    18.711
79.      The TDB's expected approval levels fcr 1989 will be 34.4 per cent
below the actual approval levels for 1988.  This decline can be directly
attributed to TDB's policy of restricting new lending until appropriate lines of
credit (including the proposed loan) have been arranged. The Bank, IDA and
TDB's other external sources of funds had all delayed the processing of new
loans until the Government's interest rate policy had beer. amended (see para.
19). However, TDB is projecting an average annual increase in approval levels
between 1988 and 1993 of 19.7 per cent. Most of this increase is expected to
come from the industry and business sector and, in particular, from tourism-
related investment. TDB has identified a number of tourism-related projects
that would provide accommodation, restaurant, transport, retail and handicraft
facilities in line with the Government's proposals for establishing the necessary
infrastructure for the developing tourist industry. In addition, TDB has a good
pipeline of manufacturing projects based on the utilization of the small-
industries centres, processing of local produce for export and limited import
substitution. A limited number of these are relatively large projects that would,
between them, utilize around $2 million of the proposed Loan.
80.      No significant growth is expected in agricultural lending during the
period. Tonga's agricultural sector faces marketing and transport constraints
and these constraints need to be overcome before a substantial increase in
agricultural investment will occur.
81.      The Mission considers that TDB's projected lending leveas are realistic
and attainable, although dependent on continued growth in tourism arrivals.
The Government's proposals for developing Tonga's tourist market appear sound
and should deliver much-needed infrastructure for privete sector led tourism
projects to proceed. The availability of project-finance from TDB for the
upgrading and establishment of a range of tourism-related services would be
a critical factor in the successful development of this sector.



21
C.  Accountinj. Audit and Financial Controls
82.      The TDB's accounts are maintained in accordance with the
requirements of the TDB Act. The accounting system is centralized in the
headquarters office, although the Vava'u office maintains its own computerized
loans ledger.  Mainly as a consequence of the computerization of TDB's
accounting system, but also reflecting the valuable work of the Deputy Managing
Director (Finance and Economic Development), currently employed under
Australian aid, TDB's accounting standards have improved subLtantially during
the past two years. In particular, up-to-date information on all loan accounts
is directly available through a number of computer terminals, arrears reports
are provided promptly, interest is charged accurately and monthly financial
reports are prepared in a timely manner.
83.      The TDB's income has to date been reported on a fuU accrual basis
with no adjustments made for interest accrued from loans in arrears. This
policy ha& now been amended, and for tb * fiscal year commencing 1 January
1990 and subsequently, TDB wiU not reper - income on loans with arrears of 12
months or more, except on a cash basis.  )B has also agreed to adopt formal
guidelines acceptable to the Bank for the rescheduling of loan repayments and
for writing off bad debts prior to the effective date of the loan-I/ 'With these
changes to TDB's accounting policies, the MisLiosn iA satisfied that TDB's
accounting policies and procedures are appropriate and generally satisfactory.
84.      The TDB's internal audit arrangements have not been satisfactory in
the past, mainly because of difficulty of recruiting qualified staff. This
difficulty has now been overcome and TDB id*l be required under the Loan
Agreement to confirm to the Bank, prior to 31 December 1989, that its Internal
Audit Unit is adequately staffed and fully operationaWL/
85.      The TDB confirmed that its accounts will continue to be audited by
an independent private auditor acceptable to the Bank and that a copy of the
andited accounts and the auditor's report will be furnished to the Bank within
six months after the end cf TDB's financial year.2/ It was further agreed that
the audit report would continue to include a separate long form audit report
containing the detailed information required under the existing Bank loans.4/
TDB will also authorize the Bank to discuss its financial affairs from time to time
with TDB's independent auditors._I
1/  Project Agreement, Schedule, para 16.
ZI  Project Agreement, Schedule, para 8.
l/  Project Agreement, Section 3.06(a).
41  Project Agreement, Section 3.06(b).
.Q/  Project Agreement, Section 3.06(c).



22
D. Ein"sial Periormac'e
1.  Interest Rate Structure
86.      The TDB's interest rates have previously varied between 6 per cent
and 10 per cent per annum depending on the type of project being financed and
the size of the loan. The lowest rates have been charged on loans provided to
top priority projects for development of the agriculture, fisheries, livestock and
natural resource sectors.
87.      Following the adoption by the Government of a revised interest rate
policy on 30 June 1989 (see para. 19), TDB has been allowed to charge interest
rates of up to 13.5 per cent provided the weighted average interest rate earned
o!I the total TDB portfolio does not exceed 11.5 per cent. Consequently, TDB has
adopted a more pragmatic interest rate policy under which interest rates will
be charged on individual subloans based on TDB's assessment of the relative
risks, costs and maturities of these subloans. The lowest rates charged have
been set at 8 per cent for micro loans. Under this interest rate policy, TDB
expects the average interest rate charged on its portfolio to increase from 8.7
per cent during 1989 to 12.3 per cent during 1993. TDB will undertake a review
of its interest rate policies at least once every 12 months and will consult with
the Bank prior to adopting any changes to these policies l/
2.  Past and Current Performance
88.      Table 3 summarizes TDB's financial performance for the period 1984
to 1988. Actual and projected Income statements, balance sheets and cash flow
statements for the period 1984 to 1993 are provided in Appendixes, 7, 8 and 9,
respectively.
1/  Project Agreement, Schedule, para 3.



Table 3: Summary of Financial Performance for 1984-1988
(T$'000)
Year ending 31 December       1984     1985      1986      1987      1988
Total assets                 7,046     8,236     9,578    12,978    17,262
Total portfolio              5,626     6,478    8,111     9,761    16,084
Total arrears                  558      528       746       909     1,065
Provision for bad and
doubtful debts                307       399      547       680       973
Operating oxpenses             360      422       477       537       788
Net income                      22       31        51        71        97
Ratios J%
Debt/equity                   1.0:1    1.1:1     1.2:1     1.3:1    1.7:1
Debt service coverage (times)   5.9      7.9      6.9       7.6       7.7
Return on average equity (%)   0.7       0.9      1.3       1.5       1.7
Operating expense to average
portfolio (X)                 7.3       7.0       6.5      6.0       6.1
Interest spread                5.6       6.2      5.8       5.5       6.7
Earnings spread                7.6       8.0      8.8       7.3       8.6
Current ratio                5.2:1     6.3:1     9.6:1    12.9:1    6.4:1
Collection ratio J/           63.3      67.2     70.8      68.5      72.2
Arrears ratio                 10.0       8.2      9.3       9.3       6.6
Hardcore arrears ratio p/      4.3       3.7      4.1       4.8       3.0
Wi  As defined in the footnotes to Appendixes 7, 8 and 9.
k/ The ratio of cash collection to total collectibles (i.e. beginning arrears plus
current dues) for the year.
y/  The ratio of arrears of 12 months or older to total portfolio.
89.      Tonga Development Bank has maintained marginally acceptable
profitability during the period with the 1988 return on average equity of 1.7
per cent being the highest achieved to date. The high ratio of administration
expenses to average portfolio (6.1 per cent for 1988), is the major cause of this
low profitability. The need to maintain relatively high staff numbers to
administer the large number of small loans and the wide geographic spread of
TDB's client base are factors contributing directly to TDB's high cost structure.
TDB's management is constrained in its ability to deal with these factors because
of the Government's requirement for TDB to provide micro lending. The
proposed Bank technical assistance will however seek means for mitigating the
costs of such operations.
90.      Other aspects of TDB's financial performance have been satisfactory.
TDB has maintained a conservative debt/equity ratio and strong debt service
coverage during a period of strong growth in portfolio value, The provision for
bad and doubtful debts has also been increased signiticantly and, at 31
December 1988, was equivalent to 6 per cent of TDB's total portfolio value. While



TDB's external auditor has stated that this provision is adequate, the more
detailed portfolio review proposed under Bank technical assistance (see para.
48), would provide a detailed assessment of this adequacy,
91.      The TDB's collection performance, as reflected in an annual collection
ratio of 72.2 per cent for 1988 and an arrears ratio of 6.6 per cent at 31
December 1988, compares favorably to that achieved by similar DFIs. The anni ia
collection ratio had further improved to 74.3 per cent by the end of May 1989.
To comply with covenants under the Third Bank loan, TDB was required to
achieve a minimum 75 per cent annual collection ratio and a maximum hardcore
arrears ratio of 2 per cent by 31 December 1987. Although TDB had not
achieved these targets, the efforts by TDB's management to improve collection
performance have resulted in notable success tad the non-compliance with these
covenants as at 31 May 1989 was marginal (at that date the hardcore arrears
ratio was 2.52 per cent).
92.      The Mission accepts the view of TDB's management that the 2 per
cent maximum hardcore arrears ratio is not practical and an increase to 2.5 per
cent is proposed.,4/ It is also proposed that the minimum annual collection ratio
covenant be retained at 75 per cent.V/ The Mission considers that the
mainter,ance of these ratios at the proposed levels will ensure TDB's ongoing
financial viability. It is also proposed that the minimum debt service coverage
ratio be maintained at 1.5 timeso/ cover and the maximum debt/equity ratio be
maintained at 3:1.4/ The covenanted maximum debt/equity ratio could be
considered as relatively low given TDB's strong debt/service performance and
the relatively good portfolio quality. It has been agreed however that an
appropriate time to re-assess this ratio would be following the adoption of a
diversification strategy for TDB. At that time, TDB's ability to raise further
debt against its equity should be evaluated in terms of the type of business
activities it intends to undertake.
3.  ProJected Financil Performance and Resource Position
93.      A summary of TDB's projected financial performance .or 1989 through
1993 is given in Table 4. Further details are provided In Appendixes 7, 8 and
9. The assumptions behind these projections are summarized in Appendix 10.
I/  Project Agreement, Schedule, para 11(b).
V/  Project Agreement, Schedule, para 11(a).
V/  Project Agreement, Section 3.09.
4/  Project Agreement, Section 3.09.



Table 4: Summary of Proiected F.ancial Performance
1989-1993
(TS'Q00)
Year ending 31 December       1989      1990      1991     1992      1993
Total assets                18,638    23,300    28,840    31,438    35,800
Total portfolio             16,282    20,889    27,751    31,250    35,349
Provision for doubtful
debts                        1,074    1,280     1,522     1,921     ^ 541
Operating expenses            1,093    1,260     1,371     1,482     1,619
Net income                      34        69        80       135      207
Ratios aI
Debt/equity ratio             1.9:1     2.1:1    2.1:1     2.2:1     2.1:1
Debt service coverage (times)   6.4      7.0       7.3       7.3       7.3
Return on average equity (X)    0.6      1.1       1.0       1.5       2.1
Operating expenses to
average portfolio (X)          6.7      6.8       5.7       5.0       4.9
Interest spread                5.5       6.2       4.9       4.7       5.1
Earnrigs spread                7.4       8.6       7.2       7.2       7.9
Current ratio                 6.3:1     8.9:1    7.0:1     6.7:1     7.0:1
a/  Ratios calculated as in Appendixes 7, 8 and 9.
94.      The TDB is projecting a continuation of marginally acceptable
profitability despite the expected strong growth in portfolio value (average
annaal growth of 17.1 p-- cent). A factor in the expected low profitability is the
continuation of TDB'i policy of providing at least 50 per cent of pre-tax profit
for bad and doubtful debts. Under this approach the provision is expected to
increase to a level of 7.2 per cent of total portfolio value by 31 December 1994.
TDB's profitability, while low, compares favorably to that of other South Pacific
DFIs. TDB's ability to earn a higher return on its shareholders' funds would
be substantially enhanced by a diversification of its activities that alowed
higher financial gearing to be maintained.
95.      The projections, which the Mission consider to be realistic and
attainable indicate that TDB will maintain a strong financial structure and good
debt servicing capabilities during a period of rapid growth in total assets.
TDB's proposals for funding this growth are summarized in Table 5.



Table 5: TDB's Financing Plan for 1989-1993
(T$'000)
Year ending 31 December           1989-1993       X
Sources of Fund
Internal cash generation           7,619      9.7
Loan collections                  49,991     63.8
Borrowings                        15,401     19.7
Share capital increase             4,500      5.7
Increase in current liabilities     894       1.1
Total                             78.405    100J0
ADDlication of Funds
Loan and equity disbursement      68,675     87.6
Debt service                       8,062     10.3
Acquisition of fixed assets         622       0.8
Increase in current assets         1.046      1.3
Total                             78.405    100.0
96.      Total loan and equity disbursements are projected to be T$68.7 million
over the five year period, accounting for 87.6 per cent of projected funds
utilization. TDB expects to fund a total of 73.5 per cent of its resource
requirements from internal sources including loan collections during the period.
ProJected borrowings equivalent to T$15.4 million ($11.8 million) would be
sourced from the Bank/IDA ($8 million), International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) ($2.3 milion) and European Investment Bank (EIB) ($1.5
million). The Mission considers TDB's financing plan to be realistic and
appropriate to its current levels of activity.
E.  ImDlementation of Previous Bank Loans
97.      Details of the previous Bank loans provided to TDB are in Appendix
11. Each of the three Bank loans provided to date to TDB have been used
promptly and generally in accordance with the Bank's expectations. Appendix
12 provides details of the sectoral an1 geographic distribution of subloans
provided under the Bank loans and an analysis of subloan size and maturity.
TDB has complied with the covenants under the previous Bank loans, with the
exception of the covenants requiring maintenance of minimum collection ratios
and maximum hardcore arrears ratios (see para. 91).



27
V. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
98.      In its current Development Plan, the Government of Tonga has given
priority to the encouragement of private sector led development of productive
and foreign-exchange earnings activities. To support private sector investment
in key sectors, the Government has provided, or proposes to provide,
infrastructure facilities and a supportive policy environment. TDB, as the major
source of term finance for development projects, has a key role to play in he
Government's development efforts.
99.      The TDB has developed into a :-tture institution and has performed
particularly well relative to similar DFIs. Partly in response to a growing
demand for development finance, but also as a result of the growing levels of
confidence within TDB's management and staff, TDB's lending levels have grown
rapidly in recent years. TDB's current pipeline of projects and other indicators
from within the Tonga business sector provide confidence that TDB's lending
will continue to expand. The proposed Project, co-financed by the Bank and
IDA, would provide $8 million of needed financial resources that would allow TDB
to meet the projected demand for its funding.
100.     The Project would also provide a comprehensive package of technical
assistance with the objective of consolidating the institutional improvements
that have been made to TDB in recent years and ensuring that TDB's expansion
occurs from a solid base. Covenants to the proposed loan will help to ensure
that TDB will continue to maintain a sound financial position.
101.     In addition to the standard provisions and requirements included in
the Bank's loan covenants, specific assurances have been received from the
Borrower that the reforms in its interest rate policy announced on 30 June 1989
are viewed as an interim move toward a market-determined interest rate
structure and the Government's interest rate policies will be reviewed at least
quarterly. The Government has agreed that, by 31 March 1991, it will cause the
NRB to Implement an interest rate policy by which a market-oriented, flexible
interest rate structure conducive to realizing positive, real deposit and lending
rates would be maintained in Tonga over the medium to long term.I/
I/ Loan Agreemen&, Schedule 4, para 6.



28
APPENDIZES
Aliendix                                                       Ems
1           Interest Rates Prevailing in Tonga                29
2           Terms of Reference for Proposed                   30
Technical Assistance
3           Members of TDB's Board of DIrectors               36
4           TDB's Organization Chart                          37
5           TDB's Statement of Operating Policies             38
6           Analysis of Loan and Equity Investment            43
Approvals
7           Actual and Projected Income Statements            44
8           Actual and Projected Balance Sheets               45
9           Actual and Projected Cash Flow Statements         46
10           List of Major Assumptions for Operational        47
and Financial Projections
11           DetaIls of Previous Bank Loans                   49
12           Analysis of Subloans Provided Under              50
Previous Bank Loans



29
Appendix 1
INTEREST RATES PREVAILING IN TONGA
Per Cent Per Annum
__________________________
Below     T$100,000
T$100,000    and over
--------------------------------------------------------------------__----
Bank of Tonga (as of 31 December 1988)
_____________
Deposit Interest Rates
______________________
Savings account                              5.00         5.00
Term deposits
3 months                                  5.25         5.75
6 months                                  5.50         6.00
12 months                                  5.75         6.25
24 months                                  6.00         6.50
36 months                                  6.50         6.75
Lending Rates
_____________
Purpose
Housing   - ordinary                        8.50       10.00
- investment                    10.00       10.00
Personal  - general purpose                10.00       10.00
- unsecured                     10.00       10.00
Commercial - all loans                     10.00       10.00
Overdrafts                                 10.00       10.00
Tonga Development Bank
______________________
As of 31 Dec 1988           As of 1 July 1989
Top Priority Sectors
_____________________
Below T$2,000              8.00        Below T$1,000    10.00
T$2,000 & above            9.00        T$1,000 & above  11.5-13.0
High Priority Sectors            8.00                         12.0-13.0
_____________________
All Other Development Loans     10.00                         13.00
___________________________
Note: Lending rates for Bank of Tonga are on a reducing balance.
(Reference in text: page 5, para. 17)



30
AlDendix 2
Page 1
TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK
Terms of Reference for Prolosed Technical Assistance
I.  Loan Portfolio Review
A.  Obiectives
1.  To assess the current status and intrinsic quality of TDB's loan
portfolio.
2. To determine a prudent provision for doubtful debts in light
of this assessment.
3.  To develop a methodology and corresponding procedures for
internal re-assessment of the adequacy of TDB's provision for
doubtful debts on an annual basis.
4.  To train relevant TDB staff in the methodology and procedures
developed in accordance with 3 above.
5.  To identity, on the basis of the portfolio  eview, areas of
deficiency in TDB's appraisal and loan administration procedures
that may have contributed to any diminution of the quality of
TDB's loan portfolio.
B.  ScoDe  -
The consultant will review all loan accounts with outstanding balances
of T$10,000 and above and, based on statistical sampling techniques, an
appropriate number of loan accounts with outstanding balances of a lesser
amount.
C.  Detailed Terms of Reference
The consultant will
1.  In consultation with TDB's external auditors and TDB's
Management, establish the intrinsic value of TDB's loan portfolio
as of 30 June 1990. The consultant's assessment will take into
account, inter alia, the following factors: (i) each borrower's
current operating status and financial position; (ii) each
borrower's arrears record and repayment performance; (iii) the
value and accessibility of collateral security available to TDB;
and (iv) TDB's past performance in, and procedures for,
recovering arrears and defaulted loans.
(Reference in text: page 11, para. 47)



31
Apipendix 2
Page 2
2.  Develop a methodo6,u; and procedures that will enable TDB's
staff to undertake efficiently, on an annual basis, an assessment
of the intrinsic value of the loan portfolio in order to provide
appropriately documented recommendations to TDB's management
for changes to the provision for doubtful debts.
3.  Prepare an operations manual for the utilization of the
methodology and procedures described in 2 above and provide
the necessary training to appropriate TDB staff to enable the
efficient operation of the methodology and procedures.
4.  Taking account of the results of the portfolio review, provide
an sx post assessment of TDB's loan appraisal and loan
administration procedures that clearly identifies any particular
areas of deficiencies in TDB's procedures that have contributed
to a significant 1iminution of portfolio quality.
D.  Mannower Requirements
The review will require the services of an audit specialist with strong
prior experience in the audit of small lending institutions. The consultant will
work and consult closely with TDB's Managing Director (Finance), Accounting
Manager and the Managers of the Projects Divisions. It is estimated that the
consultant will require five man-months to complete the technical assistance
project.
E.  Relportina
The consultant will be required to prepare for TDB and for the Bank
the following: (i) an inception report within one week of the beginning of the
field work setting out a proposed work program; (ii) a draft final report, one
month before the end of the assignment including draft procedures manual; and
(iii) a final report incorporating the views expressed by TDB's management. The
consultant will be required to participate in a tripartite meeting with
representatives of the Bank and TDB at the end of the assignment.
I. Review of TDB's Micro Lendina
A.  Obectives
1. To determine the cost to TDB of delivering, supervising and
administering that part of its loan portfolio identified as micro
lending. For the purpose of the Review, micro lending refers
to loans of less than $1,000 that are made at mandated interest
rates that do not allow TDB to fully recover all costs associated
with delivering, supervising and administering such credit.
2.  To develop a methodology for efficiently determining, on an
annual basis, the net cost to TDB of providing this micro lending
3.  To develop recommendations to TDB and the Government for the
more efficient implementation of its micro lending operations.



32
ARpndix 2
Page 3
B.  Scope
The Review will focus on that part of TDB's lending activities which
are considered by TDB's Management to be "behest" lending and which is
afforded a high priority by the Government. The review will focus on the costs
of providing such lending and will not attempt to assess its social and economic
merits.
C.  Detailed Terms of Reference
The consultant will
1.  In consultation with TDB and the Government, develop a
definition of TDB's micro lending thet is acceptable to both TDB
and the Government.
2.  Identify, as of 30 June 1990, those borrowers and that part of
TDB's loan portfolio that meets the agreed definition of micro
lending.
3.  Identify and quantify the financial, administrative and risk
expenses associated with providing micro lending. This task
would utilize statistical sampling techniques and would provide
a breakdown and analysis of the specific transaction costs
related to the appraisal, the supervision and the administration
of TDB's micro lending.
4.  Develop a methodology for efficiently determining, on an annual
basis, the cost to TDB of undertaking micro lending. This
methodology should be developed in close consultation with the
Government and should be acceptable to the Government and TDB
in its final form.
5.  Test this methodology by calculating the cost to TDB of
undertaking micro lending during the year ended 31 December
1988.
6.  Prepare formal written procedures for calculating the cost of
TDB's micro lending and instruct appropriate TDB staff in their
use.
7.  Provide specific recommendations on how TDB's micro lending
could be more efficiently implemented. These recommendations
should be provided on the basis of an examination of alternative
institutional and/or agency arrangements that TDB could utilize
for the purpose of micro lending. Estimates of the relative costs
and benefits resulting from implementing the various
recommendations should be provided.



33
Page 4
D.  Manpower Requirements
The review will require the services of a cost accounting specialist
who has appropriate experience, and understanding of, credit delivery
mechanisms. The consultant will work closely with TDB's Deputy Marnaging
Director (Finance) and Accounting Manager. It is estimated that the consultant
will require one man-month to complete the assignment.
E.  Renorting
The consultant wiU be required to prepare for TDB, the Government
and the Bank a short final report summarizing his findings and
recommendations. All working papers for the assignment should be presented
in such a manner that the consultant's methodology and analysis can be clearly
understood.
m. Review of Accountinf Procedures Manual and Internal Audit Procedures
A.  Obiectives
1.  To revise and update TDB's accounting procedures manual so
that it presents an accurate reference source for the purpose
of operating TDB's accounting system.
2.  To establish internal audit procedures that, when implemented,
wil provide an appropriate internal check and review of tie
manner in which TDB's policies are Implemented and procedures
and systems operated.
B.  Scope
The revised accounting procedures manual should be presented in
sufficient detail and clarity to allow its utilization as a training resource for the
induction of new TDB accounting staff and the ongoing training of existing
accounting staff. The Manual should be presented with sufficient clarity for its
utilization as an authoritative guide by senior accounting personnel and
management in the consistent and accurate operation of TDB's accounting
systems. The review of internal audit procedures will cover al aspects of the
internal audit unit's functions including any enhancement of those functions
considered desirable by the consultant and by TDB's Managing Director.
C.  Detailed Terms of Reference
The consultant will
1.  In consultation with TDB's external auditors, review TDB's
current accounting procedures manual, computer operations
manual and accounting policies.
2.  Based on the review of manuals and policies, identify areas of
inadequacy in the manner in which TDB's accounting and
management information systems have been documented.



34
Page 5
3.  Propose to, and agree with, TDB's Management, a reorganization
of the above documentation that will provide an efficient and
comprehensive documentation of TDB's accounting and
management information systems fully satisfying TDB's
requirements for the training and guidance of TDB accounting
and internal audit staff and the requirements of TDB's external
auditors.
4.  Prepare in draft form the documentation discussed in 3 above.
5.  Finaize the documentation taking account of views expressed
by TDB's management.
6.  Review with TDB's management and external auditors TDB's
internal audit requirements.
7.  Develop detailed procedures, to be foLlwed by TDB's internal
auditors that will satisfy the requirements identified in 6 above.
8.  Prepare an internal audit procedures manual in appropriate
form to guide the work of TDB's internal audit unit.
D.  ManPower ReauiremenIt
The review will require the services of a professional accountant
with particular strengths in evaluating accounting systems and procedures as
well as having an appropriate understanding of the internal audit requirements
of a small financial institution. The consultant will work closely with TDB's
Deputy Managing Director (Finance), the Accounting Manager and the Internal
Auditor. It is estimated th-at the consultant will require three man-months to
complete the assignment.
E.  Rporting
The Consultant will be required to present to TDB's Management and
the Bank a brief inception report within one week of the beginning of field
work setting out a proposed work program. The Consultant will present a draft
accountlvg procedures manual and a draft internal audit procedures manual to
TDB's Management two weeks prior to the completion of the assignment and will
finalize these manuals by the completion of the assignment. The Consultant will
present a brief report to the Bank at the completion of the assignment,
summarizing the work undertaken.



35
Aondix 2
Pave 6
ESTIMATED COSTS OF THE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(US$'OOO)
Loan          Review of        Review of
Portfolio         Micro          Accounting
Review          Lending           Manual
& Internal
Audit
Procedures
Foreiln Costs
Remuneration e $12,500          62.5           12.5              37.5
per man-month
Per diem e $3,000              15. 0            3.0               9.0
per man-month
Travel                           7.0            3.5               3.5
Contingency                     13.5            3.0               8.0
Sub-total                    98.0           22.0              5810
Local Costs
Transport          )
Secretarial        )
Communications     )             5.0            1.0               3.0
Report preparation )
Total Cost                     103.0           23.0              61.0



36
Aoondix 3
TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK
Me,bers of the Board of Director.
(As of 30 June 1989)
Date of
Ense                           Appointment              Qccupation
1.  Hon. James C. Cocker            20 March 1982            Minister of
Finance
2.   Baron Vaea                     03 September 1984        Minister of
Labor, Commerce
& Industries
3.   Haniteli Fa'anunu              01 November 1988         Director of
Agriculture
4.  Tsutomu Nakao                   28 November 1977         Businessman
5.   Masao Soakai                   05 August 1977           Businessman
6.   Selwyn Jones                   01 November 1984         Secretary of
Finance
7.   Brynmor Harris                 20 March 1987            Chief Manager,
Bank of Tonga
8.   Penesima Vea                   15 June 1989             Acting Managing
Director
(Reference in text: page 15, para. 62)



TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK
Organization Chart
As of 31 December 1988
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
MANAGING DIRECTOR
Depqauty                                                                                                            lZe,o utv
Managing Director                                                                                                   Managing Di
jsDt          tb~~OPm      {1}                                                                                                Finerce & Eco. Dev,r
m
Pt
g4,.
Lon                       iLas                          Dlvhlion             17  {5  |Auditor          r         Traimn   nPeae   e  
03     lndusty and        RentallLow                                                                  b or in      External                 I
OQ  Businm LoaPonertyPublic Relations                          Legal Officer          Fominslat             Aids and          Diversifiati.          Branches
owkim (31  Dow. Fund                                             (4)         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Borrowing
0b    Reolttm              Advisor Unit            Personnel            Premism                                    Insurance
(3)  (Agriculture)                              Dirmor                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(2)
Busin    l   |  Agricutural  |    |    Brara:h    l               .                                  |    EDPI
Advisory Unit         Revolving           Administration                                                   Computers
(Budnless)           Funds                                                                                        (3)
Profes&lone 'Staf     3550
a/ Expatriate provided under Australian Staffing Assistance Scheme (ASAS)                                   Susiortlna Staff      40
b/ Consit oft
1.  Economic & Reearch Consultant                                                                            Total             95
2.  Small Busines AdvIsorv Ottleer.
3   Staff Training Advwer
4. Field Advisory Officer (AgrIculture)



38
AippendL 5
Page 1
TONGA DEVELOPMENT BAN}
Statement of Operating Policies
A. The Bank
Tonga Development Bank was established under the Tonga Development
Act 1977 as an independent statutory body. The functions of the Bank are to
promote the expansion of the economy of Tonga for the economic and social
advancement of the people by giving financial -aid advisory assistance in its
discretion to any enterprise operating or about to operate in Tonga.
In carrying out its functions the Bank will be guided by the following
general operational, financial and promotional policies.
B.  ScoDe of Activities
1. The Bank wiU conduct its operations within the general framework of the
Government's economic policies, plans and priorities.
2. Although the primary role of the Bank is to promote economic development
and production in the private sector, the existence of Government or other
public ownership in an enterprise will not preclues that enterprise from
being assisted by the Bank.
3. The Bank will finance projects aimed at increasing production and
development in the fields of agriculture including horticulture, livestock
and fishing; timber extraction and reforestation; quarrying, industry,
manufacture and processing of all kinds; tourism; commerce; transport and
communication; and service industries including professions.
4. The Bank will finance both new enterprises and the expansion or
modernization of existing enterprises (the work "enterprise" as used in this
Policy Statement having the same meaning as is defined in the Tonga
Development Bank Act 1977 and includes cooperatives and community
activities). Particular attention will be given to promotion of the entry of
new entrepreneurs Into the field of productive endeavour and the
development of managerial and entrepreneurial skills.
5. The Bank will provide financial and other forms of assistance in the following
ways:
(a) extending loans;
(b) making equity participation;
(c) guaranteeing the finance provided by other sources;
(d) providing technical, managerial and financial consultancy services;
(e) assisting in the identification, formulation and promotion of new
projects.
(Reference in text page 17, pars. 70)



39
AipRendix S
Page 2
6. The Bank's financial assistance will be primarily for the acquisition of fixed
assets. However, the Bank may in deserving cases also finance seasonal and
short-term credit requirements in the agricultural sector as well as working
capital requirements in any sector.
C.  DeveloDment Policies and OlDeratint PrinciDles
7.  It will be one of the Bank's important aims to investigate and identify
investment opportunities, and to promote and assist in the astablishment of
enterprises of importance to the economy.
8. In addition to the operating principles mentioned under Section 6 of the
Development Bank Act 1977, the Bank will also give preference, in
determining whether or not assistance is to be given to any enterprise, to
enterprises which will-
(a) use local raw materials in processing and manufacture;
(b) make use of labor intensive technologies and provide more opportunities
for employment and training of local people;
(c) contribute effectively to broadening the base of local entrepreneurship
and ownership;
(d) have a good potential for expanding exports or decreasing imports;
(e) lower costs and improve the efficiency or standards of goods and
serv e8s;
(f) lead to an increase in the incomes and living standards of people,
particularly of those at the village or grass roots leveL
9.  The Bank will carry out its operations as a development finance institution
in accordance with sound banking and business practices.
10. The Bank will provide financial assistance only to those projects which, on
the basis of its own analysis, appear to be economically justified, technicaUy
feasible, financially viable and profitable. Special attention will be given to
the quality of management of the enterprise and to the market prospects of
the project.
11. The Bank will endeavour to secure its loans and guarantees in accordance
with sound banking practices, but in doing so the Bank will have due regard
to its functional requirement to promote the economy for the economic and
social advancement of the people of Tonga.
12. Applicants will be required to provide a reasonable equity in the enterprise
to ensure that they have an appropriate stake in their own venture. They
wil also have to ensure that the total financial requirement for the
successful implementation of the project will be available.
13. The Bank will ensure, in making its financial assistance available to any
borrower, that the financial requirement for the completion and commissioning
of the project in appropriately covered, including due allowance for possible
cost overruns.



40
APPendix 5
Page 3
14. Wormally, loans wiUl be disbursed after the promoter has made his own
financial contribution to the project and after ensuring that such
disbursement is in accord with the requirements of the financial plan
approved for the project.
15. The repayment period of a loan made by the Bank, including a grace period
as appropriate and needed, will be determined taking into account;
(a) the repayment capacity of the enterpiLise;
(b) a reasonable payout to the promoter during the term of the loan; and
(c) the optimum use of the Bank's own funds in maximizing the turnover
of its portfolio.
16. The Bank wiU supervise closely the use of its funds, the progress of the
project financed and the performance of the enterprise, to ensure that
remedial action is taken promptly should circumstances so warrant.
17. The Bank wil require its borrowers to keep records and accounts in
aucordance with sound and generally accepted accounting principles, and
to furnish whatever information on their operations and accounts that it
deems appropriate. The Bank wil also maintain the right to inspect the
enterprises it finances, as well as their operations, records and books of
accounts.
18. The Bank wiU endeavour to assist farmers and entrepreneurs with the
provision of managerial, financial, technical and other advisory services.
It is the aim of the Bank to help its borrowers towards the successful
completion of their projects.
19. The Bank wiU continue to build up an effective organization and develop an
adequate and technically qualified staff, in order to carry out its functions
efficiently and to assist its clients in the formulation and conduct of their
projects.
20. Business secrets and other private information furnished to the Bank by
clients will be treated as confidential.
D. Diversification of Portfolio
21. In order to reduce the concentration of risk, the Bank will seek to diversify
its portfolio by sectors of operation and by avoiding inappropriately large
investment in any one project. In view of its developmental function, the
Bank will also pursue geographical diversification of its portfolio.
22. The Bank's equity investments shall service mainly as a catalytic agent for
the establishment as well as for the expansion of enterprises. The Bank wiU
normally dispose of such investments to Tongan nationals when appropriate.
The Bank's equity investment shaU not normally exceed 25 per cent of the
paid in capital of the assisted enterprise.



41
Appendix 5f
Page 4
23. The Bank wiU not normally commit to a single enterprise in the form of equity
participation more than 10 per cent of its unimpaired paid in Share Capital
and Reserve Fund. The aggregate equity investment of the Bank at any time
shall not exceed 25 per cent of its paid in Share Capital and Reserve Fund.
24. The Bank's total commitment in the form of loans, equity investment and
guarantees in a single project or enterrrise shall not exceed;
(a) 25 per cent of the total of the Bank's unimpaired Share Capital and
Reserve Fund; and
(b) 75 per cent of the tangible assets of such enterprise including the
Bank's own investment.
25. In exceptional cases meriting special consideration, limits under Clause 24 (b)
may be exceeded provided the loan is covered by adequate additional
security over assets not forming part of the project.
26. In financing worthwhile projects requiring more than its maximum lending
limits under Clause 24, the Bank may seek a syndicated cooperation of other
institutions, both domestic and foreign, limiting the Bank's liability in such
cases to the ceiling referred to under such Clause.
E.  Financial Guidelines
27. The Bank will review and determine from time to time the rate of interest
and fees to be applied to its advances in the light of prevailing Government
policy and developments in the capital market, with due consideration to the
costs of its own borrowings.
28. The Bank will not carry the exchange risk on its debts payable in foreign
currency.
29. The Bank will not seek to take a controlling interest or management of any
enterprise in which it has invested, other than by representation on the
board of directors (or similar committee) in appropriate cases. However,
should it become necessary to protect its own interest, the Bank may take
such action as it considers appropriate in the circumstances.
30. The Bank will not undertake long-term borrowing obligations, including
guarantees, that in the aggregate would exceed three times the total of its
unimpaired paid in Share Capital and Reserve Fund.
31. The Bank wiU maintain accounting records adequate to reflect its business
operations in accordance with sound and generaUy accepted accounting
principles and practices.



42
AiDiendjIs 
Page 5
F.  Provisions and Reserves
32. The Bank shall set aside in each year at least 50 per cent of its operating
profit in that year as a provision against bad and doubtful debts until such
time as the provision equal 10 per cent of its loans, equity investments and
guarantees outstanding, and will thereafter set aside annually such amounts
as are sufficient to maintain the provisions at least at that leveL
33. The Bank shall set aside annually to its General Reserve the whole of its net
income during the first five years of its operation and thereafter annually,
at least 50 per cent of its net income until such time as its General Reserve
is equal to the amount of its paid in Share CapitaL



43
Appendix 6
TONGA DRVELOKEHiT 8 IK
Analysis ot Loan nd Equity lvestment Approvals
(1984 - 1988)
(TVOO0)
1 9 8 4       1  9          1 t  I 9 8 6   1 9 8 I       1 9 a 8
As of 31 December
No.  Amount  No.  AmeoUt  No.  Amount   No.   Amount  No.   Amount
Total Approvals
Loans                             3,093  3,492  3,061  3,698  3,444  4,596  2,775  8,176  3,377  *,435
Equity Investments                    1     35    -       -      -       -      -      -       -      _
Total                             3094  3,527  3,061  3,698  3,444  4,596  2,755  8,176  3,377  9,435
According to Sector
Agriculture                      2,544  1,967  2,488  1,880  2,887  2,738  2,320  3,271  2,681  4,105
tIdustry                            369  1,427    303  1,690    341  1,698    348  4,815    494  5,183
Others                              180     98    270    128    216    160    107       90    202    147
Equity Investments                    1     35    -       -      -       -      -      -       -      -
Total                             3,094  3,527  3,061  3,698  3,444  4,596  2,775  8,176  3,377  9,435
According to Type of 8orrower
New borrowers                       949  1,448    944  1,202  1,143  1,388    727  1,246  1,094  3,380
Repeat borrow rs                  1,471    161  1,766    883  2,078  1,462  1,861  2,734  2,067  3,549
'Aim High" Third - Fourth           584    971    306  1,090    201  1,443    165  2,020    187  2,002
'Ala High' Fifth - Sixth             84    295     44    518      22    303      22  2,176      28    494
"Aim High" Seventh-Ninth              5     17      1       5    -      -       -      -         1     10
Total                            3,094  3,527  3,061  3,698  3,444  4,596  2,775  8,176  3,377  9,435
=#=   a#  Su -=              s       m         e
According to Geographical Location
Tongatapu                         1,889  2,553  1,835  2,725  2,140  3,780  1,809  7,216  2,046  7,868
'OEa                               252    121    333    103    395    190    257    124    330    285
Ha'a,pi                             216    119    313    149    254    164    193    226    278    219
Nina.                                23     23     32      56    130      58     90     34    155      66
Vavalu                              714    711    548    665    525    404    426    576    568    997
Total                            3,094  3,527  3,061  3,698  3,444  4,596  2,775  8,176  3,377  9,435
According to size
Up to 751,000                    2,621    875  2,680    837  3,034  1,070  2,219    812  2,540  k,060
Over TS1,000 to T$2,500             233    359    214    334    227    375    294    527    345    537
Over T72,500 to T75,000             118    461     65    250      81    292    102    396    261    891
Over ns5,000 to T710,000             86    587     64    440      50    358      74    545    125    882
Over T*10,000 to Tt50,000            29    596     28    449      41    790      67  1,355     91  1,686
Over 750,000 to TS100,000            7    649       3    246      5    393       5    385       4    310
Over 7*100,000                        0      0       7  1,142      6  1,318      14  4,156      13  4,069
Total                            3,094  3,527  3,061  3,698  3,444  4,596  2,775  8,176  3,377  9,435
According to Maturity
Up to 1 year                     1,300    655  1,429    714  1,651  1,270  1,602  1,613    734  1,302
Over 1 year to 2 years            1,352    868  1,282    774  1,513  1,149    944  1,615  1,958  1,759
Over 2 years to 3 years             365  1,007    288    611    197    532    155    872 . 433  1,126
Over 3 yeas to 5 years               55    354     47    605      61    604      48  1,088    215  2,042
Over 5 years to 10 years             17    518     13    772      20    978      16  1,671     21  1,503
Over 10 years                         4     90      2    222       2      63     10  1,317     16  1,703
Equity Investments                    1     35    -       -      -      -       -      -      -      -
Total                            3,094  3,527  3,061  3,698  3,444  4,596  2,775  8,176  3,377  9,435
- - - - - a=--                                       --=a-=
AVrsl Growth Rate (z)                        42.2           4.8            24.3          77.9           15.4
(Reference  in text:   page  18, para. 76)



Appendix   7
TONGA DEVELOPENT BANUK
Actual and Projected Income Statements
FY1984-1993
(1$ '000)
ACTUAL                                    PROJECTED
Year ending 31 December           1984   1985   1986      1987     1988      1989     1990      1991     1992      1993
Interest on loans                405    517    618       751    1,243    1,400    1,971    2,410    3,196    4,071
Interest on deposits              42     57      64       91       45        40       70       66        40       40
Service fees and commissions      31     27      95      100       t7        50       55        61       67       73
Dividends                          7      2       3        3        3         1        1         1        1         1
Rent                              32     32      32       32       45        60       65       67        67       70
Other                             16     20      16       26       90        10       86        94      103      113
Total Income                     533    655    828    1,003    1,483    1,621    2,248    2,699    3,474    4,368
EXPENSES
Salaries, allowances and
starf training                  217    266    310       331      399       501      607      666       724      798
Travel                            35     37      36       45       50        75       85        95      105       122
Premises                          15     12      13       23       36        55       54       51        65       72
Administration                    45     57      59       69      159       190      210       225      240      260
Audit fees                         5      6       8       11       15        15       15        18       20       20
Depreciation                      43     44      51       F       126       137      150       165      180       195
Provident fund contribution
- current                        -      -       -        -        -        65       84       88        93       97
- past service benefits          -      -       -        -        -        55       55        55       55       55
Total Administration Expenses   360    422    477        537      788    1,093    1,260    1,371    1,482    1,619
Provision for doubtful debts      65     92    '53       215      293       100      206      242       407      619
Cost of borrowings                86    110    147       179      263       358      616      889    1,239    1,591
Total Expenses                   511    624    777       931    1,344    1,551    2,082    2,502    3,128    3,829
Net profit before tax               22     31      51       71      139        70      166       197      346      539
Income tax                           -      -       -        -       42        36       97       117      211      332
Net profit after tax                22     31      51       71       97        34       69        80      135      207
Ratios
Return on average equity ()        0.7    0.9    1.3       1.5      1.7       0.6      1.1       1.0      1.5      2.1
Ada. expenses/average total
portfolio (2)                    7.3    7.0    6.5       6.0      6.1       6.7      6.8       5.7      5.0      4.9
Interest spread s/                 5.6    6.2    5.8       5.5      6.7       5.5      6.2      4.9       4.7      5.1
Earnings spread b/                 7.6    8.0    8.8       7.3      8.6       7.4      8.6       7.2      7.2      7.9
Interest earned on loan portfolio         fIterest payments
a/ -      -------------  ---    ----    
Average loan portfolio              Average borrowings
Total Income                            Interest pay ents
b/  --------------------------__
Ave. loan portfolio * bank deposits + equity imv.         Ave. borrowings 4 equity
(Reference in text:   pages 22 & 24, paras.  88 & 93)



4 ~45
Appendix 8
7     W    r     DAT K
Actual -     Oetd  ealance shet
111284-1093
ACTUAL                                     P1OJFCT3D
1984    1985   18o    1187    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Current Asset
Csh on hnd nd in ba            241      340      352     386    .147       60       717     22?      155      536
Tere depsits                   500      950      790   2,100      500   1,100    1,200      *00      500   1,000
Accounts recslvableoand         6?       48       65     106      .45      180      280     255      105      200
repaywment
Laws due within one Year    2,310   2,207    3,496   5,524    6,374    6,868   8,752   11,630   13,061  14,600
Total Current Asets          2,226    3,545    4,703    6,116    7,068    6,754   10,948   12,812   13,847   15,538
Portfolio
tLans                        &,559   6,411   8,044   9,136   16,059   16,255  20,714   27,526  30,975  35,024
Equity investmntm               67      6e       67       25       25       2       175     225      275      325
Total Portfolio              5,626   6,478   8,111    9,761  16,084   16,282  20,889  2,. .1   1,250  35,249
Leess  Provision tor
doubtful debts         (307)    (399)   (547)   (680)   (93)  (1,074)  (1,260)  (1,522) (1,921)  (2,541)
Loa  due within
one year             (2,318)  (2,2071)  (3,496) (5,524)  (6,314) (6,88) (8,752) (11,M0) (13,087) (14,800)
Total Not Tere Portfolio     2,001    3,872   4,068   3,557   8,737   8,340   10,857   14,5S9   6,242  16,08
Fixed Asset                    819      819     80    1,305   1,459    1,544   1,494    1,429   1,3t9   1,2$4
Total Asets                7,046    8,236   9,578   12,978   17,262   18,638  23,300   28,840   31,438  35,800
LIABILITIES AND £6UIT
Current Liabilities
Boak overdraft                 125        2       *
Accounts VaVble ad
accrud expewse               26       260     219      2S       624      760      498     893      706      725
Tere borroings due
within one year              201      206     265       41      49        S42    552      645      842      188
Provision tor tation           -        -       -        -         42       78     175      292      503     835
Total Current Liabilities      622      568      487     626   1,105    1,380    1,225    1,830   2.051   2,348
Long-Term Liabilities
Government (ADS)             1,744   2,038   2,164   2,572   J,411   3,246    2,116   2,962   2,804   2,i70
Govern,ent (UK)                602      453      402     349      2        240      182     124       63      -
Government (Australia)         250      250     250      250      222      193      162     132      100      67
European Booneoic Coamity      133      133      133     132      133      t21     127      122      120      116
European Investaent Bank       534       44   1,102   2,105   2,992   2,842    ,o88    2,531   2,371   ;1052
IAD                            -        338    1,024    1,532   1,532    2,632    3,430   4,328   4,226   4,124
IDA                            -       -        -        -      1,799   2,400   2,700   2,700   2,700   2,700
BOT                            225      200      175     34       207     268      213      168      123      6
Fund to Find                   -        -       -        -        -       -      3,000   6,0000   8,5e    11,s0o
Total Long-Term Liabilities  3,388    4,25s   5,250   7,288  10,691  11,882  15,620  19,068  21n,0o   23,331
Les: Due within one year    (201)    (206)   (265)   (341)   (439)   (642)   (552)   (645)   (842)   (788)
Total Long-Term Liabilities  3,187    4,00   4,985      ,947  10,252  11,320  15,068  18,23  20,165  22,543
Equity
Share capital                3,105    3,456   2,893   5,120   5,523   5,523   6,523   6,023   8,523  10,023
General reserve                132      162     212      265      382      415     464      564      699     906
Total tEity                  2,237    2,618    4,106    5,405    5,906    5,138    7,007    ;,58    9,222   10,929
Total Liabilities  EA ity  7,046   8,236   1,578  12,978  I1,262   18,638  23,200  28,840  21,48   s5,820
Ratios
Debt/equity ratio e/           1.0:1   1.1:1   1.2:1   1.3:1   1.7:1   1.9:1   2.1:1   2.1:1   2.2:1   2.1:1
Cu+nt ratio b/                 5.2:1   6.3:1   9.6:l  M2.9s1    6.4:1   6.3:1   8.9:1   7.0:1   6.1:1   7.0:1
Lang-term liabilitie  - COrrt portion of loterm drbt
*/
Total nimpired paid-in capital, surlus A remere of 7T
Current Assets
Crret Liabilities      (Reference in  text:   pages 22 &  24, paras. 88 & 89)



46
Appendix 9
TCRGA DUEQELPXERt DANK
Actual and Projected Cash Flow statesenta
FY1984-1993
ACTUAL                                        PROJECTED
1994     1985     19t6    1"?        1998     1989     1990     1l99     1992      1992
sources
Not Profit (betore groviiems)        87       123      204      286      432      10       372      439      753    1,119
Ino   tax                                       -         _-              (42)     (36)     (97)    (117)    (211)    (332)
Non-cah sapsab o                     43        44       51       58      126       137      150      165      180       195
Collection of principal           1,326    2,185    2,456    3,457    4.605    5,092    7,093    9.940   13,261   14,705
Intereat on borrowins                e6 s     110      147      179      263       358      616      889    1,239    1,591
Available for debt servicing      1,542    2,462    2,959    3,990    5,384    5,121    8,134   11,216   15,222   17,317
Inreaso in pald-in capital         - 367      351      437    1,227      403         -    1,000    1,500      500    1,500
Drawdown of borrowing
- secured                         789   1,068    1,201    2,315    3,728    1,601    1,300    1,000           -        -
- future borrowings                           -        -        -        -         -    3.000    3,000    2.500    3,000
Increa_  (decrease) in              367       (58)    (209)      62      381       172     1165)     512       24      351
current liabilities
Total Source                      3,0r.4   3,823    4,287    7,594    9,996    7.494   13,269   1,228   19.246   22,166
indU    an=8=     =8z=    ntuam.   asm        an= m    gw m     UMMinza ur?..u
Applicationa
Reopsuents of borrowings
principal and interest            263       310      412      520      702      900    1,168    1,534    2,081    2,39
Dibutrseent:
teams                           2,783    3,038    3,968    5,124   10,814    5,176   11,542   16,559   16,437   18,661
Dhuity investments                 35         -        -        -        -         2      148       50       50       50
Acquisition of fixed assets          56        44       38      556      280       222      100      100      100       to0
Increae (decrease) in current        33       (19)       7       51      (61)      135      100      125)    (150)      95
assets
Cang e in liquid assets            (106)    450       (1381   1,333   (1,839)   1,059       211     (990)    (272)     883
Total Applicatiom                 3,064    3,823    4,287    7,594    9,896    7,494   13,269   17,228: 18.248   22,168
Debt service coverae (tims) al        5.9       7.9      6.9      7.6      7.7       6.4      7.0      7.3      7,3   h,3
Sourese available for debt servicing
Repapuent of borrowings (principal and interest)
(Reference in text:   pages 22 & 24; paras.  88 & 89)



47
Alprendix 10
Page 1
TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK
List of Malor Assumntions for
ODerational and Financial Proiection (FY1989-1993)
I.  OOerational ProJections
L. AP.Pro2al
Total loan approvals are assumed to decrease by 34 per cen*t in 1989
mainly due to funding shortages. However, based on pipeline
projects, approvals are assumed to increase by 55 per cent In 1990,
25 per cent in 1990, 16 per cent in 1M, 1 per cent in 1993.
Agriculture loans are expected to increase at a compounded annual
rate of 2.8 per cent to 1993 while business and industry loans are
assumed to Increase at 28.7 per cent.
B. Disburs,emen
a) Based on past experience, the following assumptions are applied:
Seventy per cent of total approvals will be disbursed in the same
year, and 30 per cent in the following year.
b)  Equity investments are assumed to be disbursed in the year of
approval.
c)  Repayment of existing loans is assumed to be on the basis of
actual amortization For new loans, an estimated amortization schedule
is assumed as follows:
lst year                    25 %
2nd year                    25 %
3rd year                    15 %
4th year                    15 %
5th year                    15 %
IL.  FinancialProiecons
A.  Income Stateme
(i)  Inteet Inoome
a) Loans: Based on the average loan portfolio: 8.5 per cent
- 1989, 9.0 per cent - 1990, 9.5 per cent - 1991, 10 per
cent - 1992, 10.5 per cent - 1993.
b)  Term Deposits  6.5 per cent per annum on average
balances.
(Reference in text page 24, para. 93)



48
Page 2
(ii    Other Income
a)  Letter of credit (L/C) guarantees: 1 per cent
b)  Premiums on collected insurance: 10 per cent
c)  Rental received from  three government departments
occaupying the top floor of the Bank's building and also at
Vava'u building.
01ii)    AdminiJstrtive Ex_enses
a)  Travel, administration and auditing costs will increase by
32 per cent - 1989, 16 per cent 1990, 10 per cent 1991, 8
per cent 1992, 10 per cent - 1993.
b)  Personnel costs will increase by 20 per cent in 1989 and
then 10 per cent per annum to 1993.
Iv)    Cost of lorrowings
Current borrowings at contracted rates and new borrowing at
6 per cent per annum on average outstanding balances.
(v)     .licadon of Accumulated Profits
TDB wll continue its policy of transferring at least 75 per cent
per annua of operating profit to provisions for doubtful debts
with the objective of increasing the value of the provision figure
to 10 per cent of outstanding loans and equity investments.
L     h  Fbw Statement
(i)   Increse in capitd
The foDow:'ng equity injections from TDB's shareholders have
been projected:
1989     -   nil
1990     -   T$1,000,000
1991     -   T$1,500,000
*                      1992     -   T$ 500,000
1993     -   T$1,500,000
(01)    Rements oi Borrowins
As per repayment schedules In the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
Repayments of new borrowings are assumed to be on a similar
basis as for existing loans.



TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK
Details of Previous Dank Loans
Loan 3?6 TON(SF)    Loan No. 624 TON(SF)      Loan No. 782 TON(SF)
Loan Amount                $1.5 million      SDR 0.918 million          SDR 0.879 million
($1.0 sillion equivalent) ($1.0 million equivalent)
*     Date of Approval           07 December 1978  26 April 1983              19 June 1986
F4    Date of Effectiveness       17 January 1979   04 August 1983            02 October 1986
Cs    Closing Date for Sub-
mission of Sub-loans    17 July 1982      04 August 1986             25 July 1988
"     Closing Date for
Disbursment             15 June 1983      01 December 1986           08 June 1989
.g    Amount Credited             $1,445,151        5DR 0.887 million          9DR 0.879 million
OQ                                                  ($920,554 equivalent)      ($1,164,051 equivalent)
Amount Disbursed           $1,445,151        SDR 0.887 million          SDR 0.879 million
($920,554 equivalent)     ($1,164,051 equivalent)
Number of Subprojects
financed                991               539                        376
*     Free Limit Amount          $30,000            $409000                   $40,000
Sub-loan Above Free Limit
Number                  11                1                          3
Amount                  $6Q6,911          $42,301                    $297,207
I



Appendix 12
TONGA DEVELOPMENT BANK
Analysis of Subloans Provided Under Previous Bank Loans
---------------------------------------------------------
($'000)
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__------------
376 TON(SF)          624 TON(SF)         782 TON(SF)
No.  Amount   X    No.  Amount  X    No.  Amount   %
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-------__------------
Sectoral Distribution
_____________________
Nanufacturing              9   424.8  29.4   12  15.6   1.7   10   108.5   9.3
Service Industry          44   527.9  36.5   72 409.4  44.5  113   720.6  61.9
Agriculture              938   492.5  34.1  455  495.6  53.8  253   334.9  28.8
Total                  991  1,445.2  100.0  539 920.6  100.0  376  1,164.0  100.0
Geographical Distribution
_________________________
Tongatapu                765  1,236.3  85.6  335  830.7  90.3  345  1,129.7  97.0
'Eua                      23    25.1   1.7   17  11.4   1.2    6           2.3   0.2
Ha'apai                   40    66.6   4.6   38  23.9   2.6   19           4.7   0.4
Niuas                      -       -      -      1  13.0   1.4      3      7.7   0.7
Vava'u                   163   117.2   8.1  148  41.6   4.5         3    19.6   1.7
Total                  991  1,445.2  100.0  539 920.6  100.0  376  1,164.0  100.0
Maturity
Up to 1 year             496   114.4   7.9  140  23.7   2.6   14           2.0   0.2
Over 1 year - 2 years    420   214.9  14.9  239  97.0  10.5  262   300.1  25.8
Over 2 years   3 years    56   443.1  30.7   66  139.0  15.1   55   252.6  21.7
Over 3 years - 5 years    14   393.0  27.2   72  374.1  40.6   18   257.3  22.1
Over 5 years to 10 years    5   279.8  19.3   22  286.8  31.2       7   352.1   30.2
Total                  991  1,445.2  100.0  539  920.6  100.0  376  1,164.0  100.0
Size
Up to $2.5               922   273.1   18.9  412  157.6  17.1  277   173.8  14.9
Over $2.5-5.0             17    70.0   4.8   79  302.4  32.9   43   161.1  13.8
Over $5.0-10.0            27   189.4   13.1   39  270.5  29.4   40   270.2  23.2
Over 10.0-20.0            13   174.8  12.1       5  59.9   6.5    8   116.1  10.0
Over $20.0-40.0            8   271.6  18.8    3  87.9   9.1         5   145.6  12.5
Over $40.0                 4   466.3  32.3       1  42.3   5.0    3   297.2  25.6
Total                  991  1,445.2  100.0  539  920.6  100.0  376  1,164.0  100.0
(Reference-- -- ==== ==n= =tt   =p== =g ===== = p= =r97
(Reference in teXt: page 26, Para. 97)



