Report No. 391a-RO                                                             FILE
Appraisal of                                                                                   b
the Turceni Thermal Power Project
Romania
June 17, 1974
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Power and Energy Development Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUZVALE7.TS                       -
1/
Lei 20             =           US$1.00
Lei 1                          US$0.05
Lei 1 million                  US$50,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Nm 3               cubic meter at normal temperature and pressure
kWh        =       kilowatt hour = 860 kilo calories (kcal)
MW         =       megawatt
GWh        =       gigawatt hour
kV         =       kilovolt
km         =       kilometer = 0.6 mile
billion            109
Btu        =       British thermal unit = 3.9685 kilo calories
mill              US$0.001
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
MEE        =       Ministerului Energiei Electrice (Ministry of Electrical Energy)
CIEET              Centrala Industriala A Energiei Electrice Si Termice
(Industrial Central for Electric Power and Heat)
SCM        =       Santier Constructu Montaj (Distribution Construction
Department)
ISPE       =       Institutul De Studii Si Proiectari Energetice (Design
Institute for Thermal Studies)
TEC        =       Trustul Energo Constructia (Thermal Construction Trust)
TENM       =       Trustul Energomontaj (Electro-mechanical Construction Trust)
TEM        =      Trustul Electromontaj (Transmission and Substation Construction
Trust)
Rornenergo  =      Foreign Trade Procurement Enterprise
I.B.       =       Banca De Investitii (Investment Bank)
Romania's Financial Year - January 1 to December 31
1/ Assumed rate for this report - official rate is lei 4.97 = US$1.00
(see Para. 2.07)
Power and Energy Development Division



APPRAISAL OF
THE TURCENI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
ROMANIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  . ...................... .   * .  .                   i-ii
1.    INTRODUCTION  ................. . , .......
2.    THE COUNTRY AND THE ECONOMY  . ........... .... .......                             1
The Country                                                ........................  1
The Economy                               e-9.0.00-00.00.0...                      2
Energy Resources  ... ... . . . . . . . . . . .   ........... . .. ..... . ..      3
3.    THE  SECTOR          ....................................
Organization of  the Power  Sector  ...  ....oo ......                             5
Legislation             ........-o ...................................             6
Management  and Mlanagement  Systems                    .................           6
Insurance  . . . . . . .oo. o. . .  . ....  . ..  . .. ..  .   O. . ....  . .  . .  .  . O7
The Electric Power Market  .........................                               7
Tariffs  .......... --                                -............ ....  ....     7
Financing  of  the  Sector  .....  ........-.......                -..             7
Existing Power Facilities  .....                  ....................             9
Development  Program  ........ . . . . .  ....... ......  ....... .. .            10
Village  Electrification  ......... - ........ .......                            11
4.    THE PROJECT  ..o .... o ... o.oo...........................                        11
Description  o........................oo o... ....  .... ..o... .*                1t
Cost Estimates           ...     o... ......0......0.................... ......   11
Procurement  ... o........0.00..                 ..................**             13
Insurance  ...              ....- - ...        .. ... *      -       ......       14
Disbursements          .        .o. . ... .. . ... ..0 ..........                 14
Engineering and Construction .............. o......                               14
Ecological Aspects  ..............  .....  .......  ........                      16
This report has been prepared by Messrs. J.N.M. Green (engineer), P.A.
Cordukes (financial analyst), I. Hume (economist) and S. Brealey (mining
consultant). It is based on information obtained by a mission to Romania
in November 1973.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)                                      Page No.
5.  JUSTIFICATION .....*..... *................               17
Load Growth .                                            17
Comparison of Alternatives       .......................  17
Economic Rate of Return ... ............. . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
6.  FINANCIAL  ASPECTS  ..........  . . . .   ...............................  19
Sunmary ....... ..*.........   ...   0........00*0..0000*...  19
Past and Present Financial Aspects .... ...........      19
Financing Plan ....... ....O..* ............             20
Future Financial Position ........................       22
Audit .........                          ......          23
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED . ............................. .      23
ANNEXES
1.  Extracts from Government Decree on Conserving Fuel and Energy
2.  Mining Aspects of the Turceni Power Project
3.  Organization Chart - Ministry of Electrical Energy
4.  Organization Chart - Industrial Central for Electric Power and Heat
5.  Typical Organization Chart for a Generation Enterprise
6.  Decree of the Council of Ministers Establishing the Turceni Enterprise
7.  Tariffs
8.  Electric Power Sector Planting History and Forecast
9.  Electric Power System Capability and Maximum Demand
10.  Project Cost Estimate
11.  Schedule of Equipment and Materials Suitable for International
Competitive Bidding
12.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
13.  Comparison of Alternatives
14.  Economic Rate of Return
15.  The Accounting System
16.  Income Statements for the Years 1970-1980
17.  Balance Sheets for the Years 1970-1980
18.  Sources and Applications of Funds for the Years 1970-1980
19.  Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements
MAPS
Electricity System (IBRD 10830)
Turceni Thermal Power Station Project (IBRD 10831)



APPRAISAL OF
THE TURCENI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
ROMANIA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a 1320-MW lignite fired thermal power station
project for the Government of Romania. Units will be of 330-MW size and are
scheduled to be commissioned at 6 monthly intervals in the period September
1977 to March 1979. Turceni is approximately 200 km west of Bucharest in the
province of Oltenia, the lignite deposits of which are to be exploited. Ap-
proximately 600 km of 400-kV and 110-kV single circuit transmission lines and
a switching station are to be built to complement the station. The total
cost of the project is estimated at US$353.5 million equivalent excluding in-
terest during construction towards which a loan of US$60 million, i.e. 67% of
the direct foreign exchange cost of about US$89 million equivalent, is proposed.
Equipment and materials for the manufacture of the plant and incorporation at
the site would be purchased under the loan. The project represents about 8%
of the total construction requirements of the Romanian power sector during the
period 1973-1979.
ii.       Lignite mines and rail links with Turceni are being developed by
the Petrosani Coal Enterprise for the Ministry of Mines, Oil and Geology and
are not part of the project.
iii.      Demand for electrical energy has been rising rapidly over recent
years largely due to rapid industrialization. The annual rate of growth of
demand for power is expected to be in excess of 12% to 1976 and thereafter
to decline to 9.4% through 1980. The interconnected system annual peak is
expected to reach 13,800 MW by 1979 when the project will be fully commissioned.
iv.       The Project introduces advances in technology in that the manufac-
ture of the boilers, turbines and generators for the power station is to be
undertaken in Romania through the purchase of licenses from suppliers of proven
designs. Similarly, the development of the lignite mines (though not part of
the Project) involves the manufacture of bucket-wheel excavators under license
from an established manufacturer.
v.        The loan would be made to the Investment Bank with the guarantee
of the Government of Romania. The Turceni Enterprise will execute the Project
with the technical assistance of Romanian design institutes, while the civil
works and erection will be arranged with the construction trusts of the Ministry
of Electrical Energy. Romenergo, the Ministry's foreign trade enterprise will
coordinate the procurement. The items to be financed by the Bank are all to
be subject to international competitive bidding under the Bank's guidelines
for procurement. Romanian suppliers may, but are not expected to, compete.



- ii -
vi.       The power sector 1973-79 expansion program, expected to require
about US$4.4 billion equivalent, would be financed 46% from internal cash
generation, 52% from state budget allocations and 1% each by the Investment
Bank and the IBRD. The financing plan is an integral part of the national
socio-economic plan. Should the program be changed or the level of internal
cash generation vary, state budget allocations would be altered accordingly
to meet the needs of the plan. Though the proposed Bank loan is a small part
of the total sector requirements, it will meet the foreign exchange cost of
most of the equipment and materials suitable for international competitive
bidding required for the Turceni project.
vii.      The Industrial Central for Electric Power and Heat (CIEET) is re-
sponsible to the Ministry of Electrical Energy (MEE) for the control, super-
vision and financial planning of the enterprises which generate and distribute
electric power in Romania. The financial accounts and forecasts of the Indus-
trial Central indicate an acceptable financial performance would be maintained
by the sector. A recent Government Decree imposing restrictions on the consump-
tion and use of energy and an overall review of tariffs and prices is not ex-
pected to change the present position because of the total integration of sector
finances with those of the State. No specific financial covenants have been
agreed but provision has been made for an exchange of views between the re-
presentatives of the Bank and the Romanian power sector on financial and econ-
omic information to be furnished relevant to the project and its impact on the
power sector.
viii.     Insufficient data in support of the specific thermal alternatives
to the Turceni Project investment decision was given. Nevertheless consider-
ing the available fuel resources, the plant size and the growth of demand for
power in Romania, the decision to build the Turceni power station is judged
to be sound. The economic return on the project is expected to be at least 8%.
ix.       Organization of the sector conforms to the structure common to
the whole Romanian system. Management appears competent and operates facil-
ities effectively. Management methods and systems are largely standardized.
x.        Though all the information sought on the power sector was not made
available and the Bank's analysis is not as detailed as is customary, adequate
data on the project itself was obtained, sufficient to conclude that the proj-
ect is suitable for a Bank loan of US$60 million for a term of 25 years in-
cluding a 5-1/2 year period of grace.



APPRAISAL OF
THE TURCENI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
ROMANIA
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises the Turceni 1/ Project to be constructed on
the banks of the Jiu river at the junction of the Jilt valley and the Jiu
valley in the Gorg district of south-western Romania (MAP IBRD 10830). The
Project comprises a thermal power station with installed capacity of 1,320
MW in four units of 330 MW, 400-kV transmission lines, a 400-kV switching
station, and a 110-kV line for station starting and standby. Additional works
essential for the support of the power station but not part of the Project are
the development of the Oltenia lignite deposit by two new mines, South Jilt and
Matasari, the extension of existing mines in the region (Map IBRD 10831), and
rail links for delivery of fuel from the lignite workings as well as road,
rail and housing facilities to support the construction and operating phases
of the Project. A loan of US$60 million, the first power loan for Romania,
is envisaged.
1.02      Data on the power sector was restricted due to the Romanian regula-
tions governing its release and the fact that the Romanians were reluctant
to release data which was being revised in line with a recent decree aimed
at ronserving fuel and energy (Annex 1). A more comprehensive understanding
of the Bank's methods and reasons for its special interest in the power sector
has been gained during the period of loan preparation and is expected to grow
as association between Romania and the Bank extends. In connection with the
Project execution and supervision, detailed reporting requirements including
sector indicators have been accepted by the Borrower and the Guarantor.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission consisting
of Messrs. N. Green, P. Cordukes, I. Hume and S. Brealey (consultant) which
visited Romania between November 7 and 27, 1973, and on data supplied by
the Romanian authorities including a "Preliminary Technical and Economic
Study" for the Project dated June 1973 and a report entitled "Data and
Economic and Technical Elements Concerning the Feasibility of the Turceni
Thermal Power Station Scheme".
2. THE COUNTRY AND THE ECONOMY
The Country
2.01      The Socialist Republic of Romania, is a country of some 21 million
people covering an area of 237,500 km2 stretching westwards from the Danube
1/   Pronounced as "Toorchen".



- 2-
Delta on the western shores of the Black Sea to Hungary and Yugoslavia. It
is bordered on the north and east by the Soviet Union and by Bulgaria in the
south. The country is of varied topography.
2.02      The climate varies between the mountains and the plains; but in
general it is East European Continental, dominated by the high pressure
systems from Western Soviet Union and from North-Central Asia. Winters
are generally long and cold, summers short and hot. Temperatures range
from summer highs of 25C to 30C to winter lows of -15C to -20°C.
The Economy
2.03      Since the founding of the People's Republic of Romania in 1948 (it
was pronounced a Socialist Republic by the constitution of 1965), Romania has
been organized on the basis of socialist principles. Almost all natural re-
sources and productive assets are owned by the State. With the exception of
some 9% of the total, all agricultural land is either owned by the State or
is organized into state-controlled cooperatives.  There is no private industry.
Economic management is achieved through a process of central planning in which
virtually all productive activity, including investment and the financing of
investment, production targets, productivity norms, foreign trade and the dis-
tribution of incomes are stipulated in annual economic and social development
plans. Annual plans are elaborated within the framework of a Five-Year Plan -
that presently in force being for the period 1971-75.
2.04      To facilitate the planning process, the pricing of all inputs and
outputs and the setting of tariffs for services and energy are all predeter-
mined by the central authorities, and these have until now remained fixed for
long periods. The structure of tariffs and prices until recently was that set
by the authorities in 1963. The price system is at present under review and
the expectation is that new prices will be set to reflect the historical de-
velopment of relative costs in time for the final elaboration of the Five-
Year Plan for 1976-80. New electricity tariffs and prices for fuel were in-
troduced from January 1, 1974 (para 3.12).
2.05      Romania is a country in an intermediate stage of development.  The
latest Bank Atlas estimates GNP per capita for 1971 at $740. The achievement
of this level of development is the result of more than two decades of rapid
industrial development, in the course of which the predominately agrarian
economy of the early postwar years has given way to the emergence of a strong
and growing industrial sector. In 1972, industry including power and con-
struction employed about 35% of the labor force and contributed about 66%
of the national income. Bucharest, Romania's capital (1.6 million in 1972)
is the only city with a population exceeding one million. It is followed in
size by a group of eight cities whose 1972 population was in the range of
200,000 to 250,000.
2.06      Despite the considerable advance in industrialization since 1945,
Romania still has a relatively high proportion of its population and labor
force in rural areas. In 1972, about 58% of the total population lived in
rural areas compared with over 75% in 1945. About 42% of the labor force
was employed in agriculture.



- 3 -
2.07      The official exchange rate of lei 4.97 per US$1 is used only for
accounting purposes. The rate used for invisible and capital transactions
is lei 14.38 per US$1. Under a new system introduced in January, 1974, the
prices of all traded goods are converted at a uniform rate of lei 20 per US$1;
a rate which is considered by the Romanians as being representative of the cost
of convertible foreign exchange. For imported goods, the domestic lei price
is found by adding to the converted foreign price a tariff rate which varies
for different types of goods. The rate of lei 20 per US$1 has also been used
to convert national income statistics from lei to dollars. Consequently, this
rate has been used as the base rate for calculations in the appraisal.
Energy Resources
2.08      Romania relies predominantly on domestic sources of primary energy,
though in recent years imports of crude oil and coal have become important.
The country's single most important source of primary energy is natural gas,
accounting for 41% of the total consumption in 1973. A breakdown of the four
major primary energy sources (as measured by production and imports in 1973)
is given in the following table. The Romanian strategy on energy, intensified
since the recent energy crisis, is to conserve gas and oil and expand domestic
lignite production and hydro-generated electrical energy. There is at present
no nuclear power generation capacity in Romania but there are plans to develop
a 440-MW plant with the commissioning scheduled for 1981. Efforts are also
being made to harness the country's geothermal potential but developments in
this field are not far advanced.
ROMANIA's PRIMARY ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN 1973
(Total Annual Supply)
Domestic  Imported    Total    Btu x 1012        %
Coke and Coal (m. tons)       27.4      3.3        30.7         685          28.2
Hydro-Electricity (GWh)    7,500         -         7,500         25           1.0
Oil (m. tons)        3        13.5      3.5        17.0         717          29.6
Natural Gas (bill. m )        29.6       -         29.6         996          41.2
TOTAL                                                   2,423         100.0
Natural Gas
2.09      Romania has a relatively abundant supply of natural methane gas,
found mostly beneath the Transylvanian Basin.  The quality of the gas is
as high as any in Europe. No exact figures are available but there are
known to be proven reserves sufficient for 30-50 years supply at present
production levels.  Total gas production in 1973 was about 30 billion m3,
of which 5 billion were from oil-based gases.  It is expected that produc-
tion will increase by about 1 billion m3 annually until 1975. Beyond that
year, however, plans are for no production increase in order to conserve re-
serves. The decree issued by the Council of State in November 1973 has for-
bidden any increase in the use of gas as a fuel (Annex 1) as from that date.



-4-
Crude Oil
2.10      Exact figures to show Romania's known reserves of crude oil were
not available, but at the current extraction rate of about 14 million tons
p.a. the reserves are not expected to last much beyond the end of this dec-
ade. There is a considerable oil exploration effort, including offshore
drilling in the Black Sea, but prospects are uncertain. In 1973, Romania
imported about 4 million tons of crude oil, valued at about $80 million.
In 1974 oil imports are expected to approach 6 million tons, almost all for
chemical feedstock. While being a net importer of crude, Romania is a net
exporter of petroleum derivatives. In 1973, petroleum exports totalled about
5 million tons with a value around $140 million. To the extent petroleum
derivative prices rise in response to recent changes in crude oil prices, there
will be gains in export earnings to offset the rise in the oil import bill.
Since the November 1973 decree on energy, there has been domestic rationing
of gasoline and fuel oil, but this was ended in March 1974 following an in-
crease in the selling prices of these fuels.
Fossil Fuels
2.11      Of the total coal reserves in the country, 90% consists of lignite
most of which occurs along the length of the Carpathian foothills of Oltenia.
There are also small deposits of "huile" 1/ and "brown coal". The combustible
content of the lignite is 35-38%, that of the "huile" is about 60% and the
"brown coal" is intermediate between the lignite and "huile". The lignite
is exploited almost exclusively for power generation. The lignite reserves
in Oltenia are stated by the Ministry of Mines to be about 9 billion tons
of which about 3 billion tons are considered economically exploitable. More
detailed information on the deposits and the quality of lignite can be found
in Annex 2.
Hydroelectricity
2.12      The total installed generating capacity of the Romanian power system
was 9,357 MW in 1972. Of this total, 22% or 2,100 MW was from hydro-based
capacity. In the years 1960-72, the total hydro-based capacity increased
from 210 MW to 2,100 MW. Most of this increase, however, came in 1970/71
upon the completion of the Iron Gates I hydroelectric station on the Danube.
This station has a total capacity of 2,100 MW and produces about 11,000 GWh
p.a. Only half of these amounts are available to the Romanian system as the
Iron Gates output is shared equally with Yugoslavia. It is estimated that
Romania's total hydro-potential (economically feasible) is around 31,000 GWh
p.a. of which only 7,000 GWh p.a. is currently developed. Most of the unde-
veloped capacity is on the Danube and development of this is complicated by
problems related to navigation and international waters.
1/   "Huile" is pit coal or bituminous shale.



3. THE SECTOR
Organization of the Power Sector
3.01      The Ministry of Electrical Energy (MEE) administers the sector
through a board comprising the minister, three deputy ministers and the
various directors of subordinated organizational units. The MEE presently
employs in excess of 100,000 personnel and is responsible overall for the
research, planning, design, construction and operation of all public power
supply installations in Romania. The organization structure of the MEE is
shown in Annex 3.
3.02      Among the various units subordinated to the MEE are design and
research institutes, training centers, construction trusts, foreign trade
enterprises and a national dispatch center. It is the design institutes
and the construction trusts which are responsible to the MEE for the prepara-
tion, design, construction and supervision of major power projects in Romania,
including the Turceni plant.
3.03      Power generation, transmission and distribution facilities are
operated by enterprises which report to the Industrial Central for Electric
Power and Heat. (In addition to selling electric energy, some of the gen-
erating enterprises also sell heat, in the form of steam, to industrial and
agricultural undertakings.) The organization chart of the Industrial Central
is shown in Annex 4. The Central collates the 5-year and annual investment
and production plans of the enterprises, which are then submitted to the
Ministry of Electrical Energy. Each enterprise prepares monthly production
statements and balance sheets for the Industrial Central, which serves as the
head office of the enterprises supervising their activities and reviewing
their finances. The Industrial Central has a staff of about 160 and is
directed by one of the deputy ministers of the MEE.
3.04      There are 16 generating enterprises employing about 28,000 staff
and 17 distribution enterprises with about 14,000 staff. The organizational
structure of a typical generation enterprise is shown in Annex 5. The dis-
tribution enterprises are similarly organized but within each is a distribu-
tion construction unit (SCM). Distribution works up to 110 kV are designed
by staff of the enterprises but the SCM units carry out the construction.
The SCM units employ about 4,000 staff and are independent self-accounting
departments of the distribution enterprises. There are also 2 manufacturing/
repair enterprises (about 4,000 staff) which supply and service the generation
and distribution enterprises.
3.05      The Turceni generation enterprise was established on August 1, 1973,
by a decree of the Council of Ministers (Annex 6). It is a legal entity,
whose designated officers have the power to sign contracts and utilize the
investment funds provided for the project. It is a self accounting unit,
recording the costs of construction and subsequently those of production
when the power station is commissioned. During the construction phase the



- 6 -
Turceni enterprise operates as the site office monitoring the progress of
the works. Once the power station is commissioned, it becomes an operating
enterprise of the Industrial Central.
Legislation
3.06      The organizational units of the MEE including the Industrial Cen-
tral and its enterprises are basically subject to the same legislation 1/ as
that which regulates and controls all economic units in the Romanian socialist
system. Some of this legislation, which is implemented through Ministry of
Finance instructions, covers matters ranging from depreciation rates, classi-
fication of accounts, distribution and payment of benefits, to the preparation
of financial reports for the Central.
3.07      The Ministry of Electrical Energy has its own statutes or regula-
tions which prescribe the functions and use of electric energy. They incor-
porate the tariff rates, conditions of supply and instructions on the applica-
tion of the regulations.
Management and Management Systems
3.08      Each enterprise is headed by a General Assembly of the Working People
which is represented by a Working Peoples Committee and an Operating Management
Collective.  The Assembly generally meets twice a year.  Similarly, the manage-
ment and direction of the Industrial Central and all other organizational units
of the MEE is directed by representatives of the people.  Executive responsibil-
ity is in the hands of the general manager, who is appointed by the Ministry,
assisted by an executive board. In the case of the MEE, the Minister and the
heads of the respective organizational units have executive authority (Annex 3).
3.09      The best evaluation of the competence and the adequacy of the man-
agement and staff can be gauged from the performance of the sector. The
minister and the deputy minister of the MEE are technical specialists who
have been appointed from within the electric power sector, as is generally
the practice in technical sectors. Despite the very rapid growth of the system
over the last decade, staff of the enterprises appeared competent and knowledge-
able, exercising delegated authority and responsibility. Performance trends
per employee have been consistently upward in the past decade. Although this
undoubtedly reflects the general growth in the sector (e.g. increasing sizes
of generating units), the general impression gained is one of increasing effi-
ciency combined with productivity gains (see 3.21). The facilities visited
were well maintained and operating effectively. Management methods and
decision making processes, while following a procedural code and constrained
by the dictates of standardization, employ modern tools and methods for data
1/   Law No. 11/71 - covers organization and management of the Centrals and
Enterprises.
Decree No. 76/73 - covers organization and management of the Ministries
and other State Bodies.



-7-
collection and evaluation. The design institutes and the construction trusts
of the MEE have proven performance records and they seem to be largely inde-
pendent of foreign consulting services.
Insurance
3.10      Insurance of normal business risks is not practiced in Romania.
However, enterprises do set aside a small share of benefits (para. 3.16)
to cover unforeseen events. This reserve is sufficient to meet minor loss
or damage. The Government acts as its own insurer supporting enterprises
which suffer major losses arising from events beyond their control. Where
normal budget provisions are not adequate to meet the cost of replacement of
a major asset, specific provision is made in the next State Budget.
The Electric Power Market
3.11      Electricity supply is available to 91% or 18.7 million of the
Romanian people. Average annual consumption of electricity per capita was
about 1,600 kWh in 1972. Total energy consumption within the country was
divided as follows: industry 75%, commercial 11%, domestic 9%, and agri-
culture 5%. Of the country's total electricity production of 43,440 GWh
about 8.5% was exported, principally to Czechoslovakia via U.S.S.R.
Tariffs
3.12      Tariffs are approved by the Council of Ministers.  The first revi-
sion since 1963 became effective on January 1, 1974 and is reproduced in sub-
stance at Annex 7. The new rates will become fully effective by 1975 when it
is estimated they will give an average revenue per kWh sold of 0.318 lei,
i.e. 1.4% more than the previous average of 0.314 lei.
3.13      The new tariffs give increased incentives to the operation at high
load factor, provide penalties for low power factor and the imposition of
random excess demand at times of system peak. All of these should have the
effect of improving the system characteristics.
Financing of the Sector
3.14      Being part of a centrally planned economy, the power sector finan-
cial plans are integrated with those of all others to form the Socio-Economic
Plan (para 2.03). This plan covers a 5-year period, currently 1971-75. Prior
to the commencement of each year, the annual production and investment plans
for each sector are collated and submitted by each Ministry to the State
Planning Committee and the Ministry of Finance, which coordinate all finan-
cial needs into a Financial Plan. The main component of the Financial Plan
is the State Budget but the Financial Plan also includes self financing of
enterprises, funds from depreciation, and foreign funds. The Socio-Economic
Plan, the Financial Plan and the State Budget are submitted through the
Council of Ministers for the approval of the National Assembly whereby they
achieve the status of law.



3.15      Finance required to meet the production plans is allocated from
State Budget funds by the National Bank. Each enterprise is allowed a
"minimum" normal working capital calculated according to a prescribed formula
(Annex 19 para. 11) and any additional requirement can be obtained from the
National Bank as a short term loan. These loans are subject to a nominal
rate of interest (2-3%) and are available for periods of up to a maximum of
12 months.
3.16      The distribution of benefits or net income is planned when the an-
nual production plan is prepared. The first priority after payment of the
turnover taxes is a minimum 10% of net income payable to the State Budget.
The workers' share of benefits, if the planned level of benefits has been
attained, is then also paid. This benefit normally amounts to 2% of the
annual net wages bill and is increased or reduced proportionally to the
degree to which planned benefits are exceeded or not met. Loans and work-
ing capital must be repaid and the Industrial Central then receives a por-
tion of benefits, sometimes as much as 70-80%, towards its re-investment
requirements. Between 1-4% is left to each Enterprise to improve social
amenities and to cover capital repairs and other minor investments. There
is also a reserve fund not exceeding 0.5% to meet expenditures on piotocol
and unforeseen expenditures. Should there be any balance remaining after
the first distribution of benefits, a second distribution is made but the
amount allocated to the State Budget is shared equally with the local ad-
ministration budget. If an enterprise is unable during the year to meet
the planned distribution payments or other commitments and it is required
to borrow additional working capital, such funds are subject to a penalty
rate of interest of 12%. The determination of the level of planned bene-
fits is thus a fundamental part of the total planning process, any decisions
to vary earnings will have an impact not only on funds available for re-
investment in the sector but also on the State Budget and the Financial Plan
for the country, and most importantly on the workers.
3.17      The investment plans are prepared separately from the production
plans and are based on projects approved by the delegated authority; the
enterprise, the Industrial Central, the MEE or the Council of Ministers.
Projects estimated to cost in excess of 70 million lei (US$3.5 million equiv-
alent) are approved by the Council of Ministers after careful vetting and
analysis by the MEE, the Investment Bank and the State Planning Committee.
Projects estimated to cost 30 million lei and up to 70 million lei are ap-
proved by the MEE; projects estimated to cost 10 million lei and up to 30
million lei by the Industrial Central. Up to 10 million lei, projects can
be approved by the enterprise.
3.18      Investment expenditure is financed firstly from internal sources,
a pre-determined portion of planned benefits (para 3.16), depreciation funds
and other sources (largely the sale of scrap material and obsolete equipment).
The remainder is provided by way of allocations from the State Budget or in
the form of loans from the Investment Bank. The latter at the present time
are not significant in amount. However, the Investment Bank does play a sig-
nificant role in the allocation and expenditure of all investment funds in



that it is responsible for authorizing all investment expenditures in accord-
ance with the approved plans. It has staff in all districts who review the
progress of investment projects, ensure that expenditures are properly au-
thorized and finally arrange the transfer of funds effecting payment.
3.19      In practice the Industrial Central coordinates the sector finances.
Each enterprise pays its depreciation, planned share of benefits and taxes
twice monthly from its revenues. Depreciation funds, which are treated as
real expense items are paid to the Investment Bank for the credit of the Indus-
trial Central, and other items to the National Bank for the credit of the State.
Existing Power Facilities
3.20      The installed generating plant at the end of 1972 was 9,357 MW
(delivering 43,400 GWh) of which 9,100 MW or 97.3% was interconnected. The
plant comprised 2,100 MW hydro, 6,842 MW steam, 306 MW diesel and 109 MW gas-
turbine. Of the total 8,501 MW was in the charge of the Ministry of Electrical
Energy whilst the remainder represented plant installed at industrial works.
The transmission and distribution system comprised 242,675 km of lines of
which 2,010 km are 400 kV, 2,458 km are 220 kV, and 9,259 km are 110 kV.
Sub-transmission/distribution in the range of 1-60 kV accounted for 86,489
km of lines (Map IBRD 10830) and the remainder 142,459 km is below 1 kV.
3.21      Published data showing the efficiency of conversion in thermal
plants indicates significant improvements over the years. In 1960, 3,514
kcal/kWh were needed (24% efficiency) reducing to 2,849 kcal/kWh in 1965,
2,387 kcal/kWh (36% efficiency) in 1970 and has remained substantially at
this level since then. The present performance is as good as if not better
than the achievements in many industrialized countries and borders on the
limit of technical feasibility.
3.22      Continuing emphasis is placed on the achievement of lower specific
investment costs for plant of all types. The combination of this and the in-
centive to achieve low specific operating costs coupled with reliability of
supply, operate to control performance in the absence of a free market
situation.
3.23      In 1972, the output of 36,100 GWh from the thermal plant was derived
from the following fuels: lignite 20.8%, coal 13.4%, gas 59.1%, fuel oils
3.8% and other fuels including secondary resources 1/ 2.9%. The largest
operating steam units are 315 MW at Craiova and are lignite-fired.  Further
units of similar size and type (330 MW) are under construction at Rovinari.
Craiova and Rovinari power stations are located in the province of Oltenia
not far from Turceni. Twelve 200-MW units have been commissioned in the
period 1966 to 1972. Romania has until recent years purchased its major
power plant components from foreign sources, mainly Russia and Czechoslovakia.
Transition to domestic manufacture is now well advanced and based on long
1/ By-product gases mostly.



- 10 -
established steel processing and manufacturing capacity in other fields. At
the end of 1973, there were in course of manufacture under licence, six boilers
and four turbo-generators of the type and size to be installed at Turceni.
The boiler manufacturing capacity is being extended to cope with the higher
production rates required to fulfill the plan.
3.24      International power connections exist with Hungary at 400 kV, with
Czechoslovakia at 400 kV through USSR, with Bulgaria at 220 kV and a second
link with Yugoslavia is in preparation but not yet connected. At present,
exports to Czechoslovakia in payment for plant supplied are the main inter-
national transfers. Under this contract 2,000 GWh p.a. are being exported
until 1980. No significant imports are made.
Development Program
3.25      The development program has been described by the Romanian authori-
ties in general trend terms supplemented by a few specific pieces of informa-
tion. The trend is reflected in Annexes 8 and 9 and relates to the load
growth forecasts (para. 5.01) and resources (para. 2.08). In the period
through 1980 new plant in excess of 9,000 MW will be commissioned of which
some 2,800 MW will be hydro plant. Hydro development will be accelerated
as far as possible. Specifically the Riu Mare scheme, with 320 MW of plant
at 14,000 lei/kW investment, is scheduled for construction in the period 1974
to 1980. The Cernavoda scheme on the Danube costing 20,000 lei/kW, with 1,000
MW of plant and an annual output of 4,000 GWh p.a. is planned for construction
during 1975 to 1983.
3.26      Thermal development will concentrate on the utilization of indi-
genous solid fuel and the Turceni Project is typical, being sited so as to
permit its extension by a further 1,320 MW of plant based on lignite fuel.
3.27      An important factor in the future thermal program is the planned
replacement of old and relatively inefficient plant by more efficient and
modern units such as Turceni. Even neglecting any plant retirement aspects,
Turceni's contribution to the system peak demand will be absorbed in less
than 14 months after commissioning. The 1,320 MW of Turceni represent about
one third of the total new plant being commissioned in the construction period.
3.28      At the time of appraisal it was judged that 7,000 MW of new plant
would be needed in the period 1981-85.  Despite the terms of the decree re-
quiring a review of the energy sector (Annex 1), it is unlikely that a lower
electric power generating plant development rate could be justified as there
will remain an incentive to conserve gas and fuel oil reserves by replace-
ment of plants presently fuelled by them whilst maintaining the industrial
development of the country (para. 2.08).
3.29      The present 400/220/110-kV transmission system is expected to be
adequate until about 1980.  After 1980 it is expected that a 750-kV system
will be needed.



- 11 -
3.30      Investment to support the planned growth in the period 1974 to
1980 is estimated at 99.3 billion lei (US$5 billion equivalent) of which some
60% will be devoted to generating plant and the remainder to transmission,
distribution and other facilities. This reflects an average system investment
per kW of plant installed of 12,000 lei including transmission and distribu-
tion works, etc. which should prove to be adequate to meet the needs of the
development plan.
Village Electrification
3.31      Romania has some 13,150 villages and in 1960, 3,427 had been elec-
trified. In the next five years, 1961-65, 617 villages were added on average
each year. In 1966-70 the rate increased to 815 p.a. Thereafter, as the re-
mainder became increasingly more remote the rate dropped to slightly more than
500 per year. By 1972, 11,634 or 88.5% had been electrified and the balance
is to be completed by 1975 at the rate of 500 per year, at which time elec-
tricity will be available to nearly the entire population.
4. THE PROJECT
Description
4.01      The Project comprises:
(a)  a thermal power station with four 330-MW lignite-fired units
delivering 7,920 GWh to the interconnected system at a load
factor of 74%, complete with the Jiu river realignment for
cooling water intake purposes and flood control, road and
rail links for construction and generation purposes, pollution
monitoring stations and,
(b)  400-kV and 110-kV transmission lines, about 600-km long,
connecting Turceni with Mintia and Brazi substations in-
cluding a switching station and interconnection with the
existing 400-kV system out of Iron Gates I power station.
The 110-kV line is for construction and standby purposes and
will connect with two nearby substations (Map IBRD 10831).
4.02      Associated works vital to the Project are the development of an
opencast mine - South Jilt, the development of an underground mine - Matasari,
the expansion of production of the existing mines at Tehomir, Pesteana and
Lupoaia, and the construction of rail links between mines and Turceni to carry
the fuel (Map IBRD 10831).
Cost Estimates
4.03      A summary of the cost estimate based on prices at the end of 1973
(Annex 10) is as follows:



- 12 -
US$
------lei millions----   -equivalent millions--
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
Thermal power station        3,828   1,255    5,083   191.4    62.8    254.2
Contingencies - Physical       260      -        260    13.0      -        13.0
- Price         -        524       524     -      26.2      26.2
Total                   4,088   1,779    5,867   204.4    89.0    293.4
Transmission lines and
Associated works           1,147        4    1,151    57.4      0.2      57.6
Contingencies - Physical        48      -         48      2.4     -         2.4
-Price          -          2         2     -       0.1       0.1
Total                   1,195        6    1,201    59.8      0.3      60.1
Total Cost of Project        5,283             7,068   264.2    89.3    353.5
4.04      The estimated foreign exchange requirement, US$89 million, covers
the cost of direct imports required for the Project.  The proposed loan of
$60 million would finance 67% of this cost comprising items suitable for in-
ternational bidding and which are expected to be supplied from Bank-member
countries; the balance of the foreign costs would be financed by the Govern-
ment and comprises miscellaneous items unsuited to international procurement.
4.05      Local costs are based on fixed&Romanian prices and are unlikely to
change significantly; however, an allowance not exceeding 5 percent is built
into the base costs of local project components in accordance with Romanian
practice. Price contingencies on items to be financed by the Bank Loan were
calculated at 14% for 1974,11% for 1975 and 7-1/2% for subsequent years; for
the remainder of direct imports a price contingency of 5 percent is provided.
Physical contingency has been allowed at 5% on the overall cost of the project
which is in accordance with Romanian experience. Though import duties ranging
to 45% have been imposed on equipment and machinery imports since January 1974,
the borrower has taken steps to exempt imports for the project from duties.
4.06      The 1,320 MW of plant at Turceni is estimated to cost about lei 5.9
billion (US$293 million). The cost per kW installed at 1973 values, neglecting
interest during construction but including the Jiu River realignment, is es-
timated to be lei 4,010/kW. This compares with similar plant already in
service such as: Rovinari -- 2 lignite-fired 200-MW sets in 1972 for 3,261
lei/kW, Brazi -- 2 oil-fired 200-MW sets in 1972 for 2,112 lei/kW, and
Craiova -- 2 lignite-fired 315-MW sets in 1967-68 for 2,565 lei/kW.



- 13 -
Procurement
4.07      Romanian procurement practice has been to invite tenders from se-
lected manufacturers and then negotiate a supply contract. Such activity has
been handled by a number of specialized agencies associated with the sector
concerned. Recently a new regulation was enacted which establishes a form of
centralized control over procurement procedures including tender evaluation.
This law is seen to reflect, among other things, the new association of
Romania with the Bank and its specialized requirements. Agreement was reached
at the time of negotiation that all procurement to be financed from Bank funds
be coordinated by ROMENERGO, the Ministry of Electrical Energy's foreign trade
enterprise. No difficulty is foreseen in developing a satisfactory procedure.
Equipment and materials to be supplied from within Romania will be procured
directly by the Turceni Enterprise.
4.08      Procurement of the items to be financed by the proposed Bank loan
would follow international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement and would comprise (i) complete compo-
nents such as standby diesel sets and ash handling plant for direct delivery
to site, and (ii) equipment and materials such as special steel plates and
pipes for manufacture and incorporation in the boilers, turbines and generators
being made in Romania (Annex 11). In general, Romanian suppliers are not
expected to bid since the list of equipment and materials to be financed by
the Bank has been prepared after excluding all items likely to be manufactured
locally. Should however, manufacturing capacity be developed in the interim,
Romanian suppliers would be eligible to compete on an international basis with
bids expressed in a freely convertible currency. No retroactive financing is
proposed.
4.09      As discussed in para. 4.04 the specific investment cost for the
Turceni plant is expected to be lei 4,010 per kW at 1973 values, using lei
20 - US$1, this is $201/kW. Manufacture of the plant in Romania does not
therefore imply an economic penalty. Bank support for the procurement of
materials and components to be used in the manufacture is justified and
should lead progressively to Romania's competition in the world market for
the supply of this type of plant.
4.10      The power station is conventional and utilizes designs and layouts
that have been successfully applied in Romania and elsewhere. There is a
considerable wealth of experience in Romania in the use of the lignite fuels
for power generation and stations equipped with units of similar size have
been operating since 1967. Fuel supplies will be delivered by rail on a
line built specifically to handle this traffic (Annex 2, para. 4.1.2). The
main units of plant (boilers, turbines and generators) are to be manufactured
in Romania under licenses from established manufacturers (para. 4.14). The
boilers are to be made at the Vulcan Works and the turbo-generators at the
UMGB Works in Bucharest. The mission visited both works and a very favorable
impression was gained of their capacity and equipment both for production and
quality control.



- 14 -
Insurance
4.11      It is the practice in Romania for each organization during the time
that it is responsible for an item of plant or operation, to carry such risks
as may arise. Thus the transportation enterprise moving an item of plant from
a port or factory to the installation site is held responsible for any damage
or loss that would in other circumstances be carried by an insurance policy.
This is in effect a State cover, but places the incentive to avoid loss on
the workers at all levels who would lose a proportion of the benefits affected
by any loss. Suppliers of imported equipment and materials are required to
cover these by conventional insurance to the point at which a Romanian carrier
takes over. The Borrower has agreed to arrange for insurance to the place of
importation into Romania, payable in a currency freely usable to replace or
repair the goods.
Disbursements
4.12      The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed against the
direct foreign exchange costs of imported equipment and material, and the
ex-factory cost if Romanian suppliers bid successfully. No disbursement
would be made for costs incurred prior to the signing of the loan. Annex 12
shows the estimated schedule of disbursements from the Bank loan. It is ex-
pected that the full amount of the loan would be utilized, but if there are
savings which cannot be utilized for the Project, the relevant loan amounts
would be applied to interest during construction.
Engineering and Construction
4.13      The Design Institute for Thermal Studies (ISPE) is responsible for
the overall project development and is a design organization specializing in
thermal power utilization in which field it has extensive experience. Coor-
dination of equipment designs for the Project is the responsibility of (ICPET)
the Design Institute for Thermal Power Station Equipment.
4.14      Major advances in technology as in the case of thermal power plant
are handled by the device of choosing an established and proven modern design
and negotiating with the makers for the purchase of the license to manufac-
ture the equipment in Romania. Thus, in the case of the Turceni plant, the
boilers are being made to a Babcock-VKW design, the turbines to a Ratthau-
Schneider design and the alternators to an Alsthom design. In like manner
it is proposed to obtain designs for bucket-wheel excavators and associated
opencast mining equipment from an established European manufacturer (Krupp)
for the manufacture of the equipment needed to develop the South Jilt open-
cast mine which is to supply lignite to this Project.
4.15      In the context of the Romanian planning system where the national
resources are closely integrated and production targets are defined in de-
tail, the result has been to develop engineering services to suit this pat-
tern. Thus, design covers the smallest detail at an early stage and is
facilitated in its cost evaluation by the existence of a fixed price struc-
ture in which fluctuations are small and infrequent. Preliminary estimates
produced by the design institute (in this case, ISPE) are discussed with



- 15 -
the manufacturing enterprises and construction trusts which will eventually
contract to manufacture or erect the works and adjustments to the estimates
are negotiated. The performance target for project execution is limited by
law to a 5% (largely physical) contingency allowance for cost estimation and
it is claimed that in practice project cost estimates are realized to an
accuracy of t1%. Over expenditure in the contingency allowance beyond the
5% level requires strong justification and authorization at an appropriately
high level. All this leads to a conservative approach to estimates and de-
sign which is itself controlled by incentives to reduce the specific invest-
ment costs whenever possible whilst maintaining plant efficiency.
4.16      The Project is administered and supervised by the Turceni enterprise.
The design institute (ISPE) will monitor performance and assist in a manner
similar to a consultant. At the same time, the Investment Bank has a team of
specialists who effect a technical and administrative audit during the invest-
ment period. The Industrial Central has additionally a group of engineers
whose prime function is to supervise during construction and who eventually
execute the commissioning trials and authorize the acceptance of the plant
from the construction trusts and manufacturers.
4.17      Work at site commenced in November 1972 and the first unit is ex-
pected to be completed in September 1977 followed in March and September 1978
by two more, and the last in March 1979. The civil works are being executed
by the Thermal Construction Trust (TEC), erection of plant will be executed
by the Electro-Mechanical Construction Trust (TENM), which handles thermal
and hydro plants. These trusts are specialized and being constantly employed
on the many ongoing projects they have accumulated a wealth of experience
pertinent to power plant works in Romania. This system of project execution
has been demonstrated to be effective on previous works and is satisfactory
for this Project.
4.18      Turceni will require 11 million tons p.a. of fuel, having an aver-
age calorific value of 1,750 kcal/kg. The South Jilt mine will supply 8 mil-
lion tons p.a. and the MIatasari mine will supply 3 million tons p.a. except
in the years 1978 to 1983 when a shortfall from these mines is foreseen and
the requisite quantities are to be obtained from other existing mines (Annex
2, Table 1). The most serious deficit of 6.4 million tons occurs in 1980.
The Government have agreed to furnish six-monthly data on lignite production
by source and a forecast for the next six-monthly period.
4.19      It is evident that as an outcome of the preparation of detailed
plans and the statement of performance targets which is fundamental to the
Romanian system and practice, there exists a high degree ofcooperation be-
tween the agencies involved in the execution of the projects. The Government
has confirmed that all necessary support shall be given to the executing
agencies to ensure that the Project is achieved in all respects including
such associated works as are vital to the scheme as a whole. As a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan, the Council of Ministers must have ap-
proved the technical and economic indicators for the Project. The technical
and economic indicators are included in the final technical and economic study
and the approval of the indicators by the Council of Ministers confirms the



- 16 -
preliminary approval it has already given and ratifies the financing arrange-
ments for the Project which then becomes part of the State Plan.
4.20      The manager of the Turceni enterprise is responsible for the admin-
istration, assembly and training of the future plant operating staff. Train-
ing is arranged with the aid of technical schools, universities, on the job
training at existing power stations and ultimately by association with the
erection staff during the final stages of the Project through commissioning
trials to operation. An allowance for training costs is made in the capi-
tal estimates.
4.21      Manpower needed during the height of the power station construction
will exceed 5,500 persons. Permanent employment in the power station will be
approximately 1,500 and in the mining activity 5,000.
Ecological Aspects
4.22      Specific attention has been given to the plant design and location
to minimize the risks to the environment and the social structure of the area.
The site was chosen with the ultimate development of the lignite deposits for
power purposes in mind and takes into account its ultimate development to
2,640 MW. It lies about half way between the Rovinari and Craiova thermal
power plants.
4.23      The water of the Jiu river will be used for cooling purposes in open,
mixed or closed cycle with full capacity cooling towers according to the pre-
vailing temperature and flow conditions of the river. The water will be taken
in such quantities as will allow of economic operation of the plant without
resulting in thermal pollution of the river.
4.24      Atmospheric pollution standards are set in Romania and prescribe
a maximum daily average concentration of sulphur dioxide of 0.25 mg/m3, the
maximum momentary S02 concentration should not exceed 0.75 mg/m3, non-toxic
suspended powder should not exceed 0.15 mg/m3 and surface deposition of ash
emitted with flue gases should not exceed 200 tons/km2 p.a.  The design of
the station abides by these limits on the basis of a full development to
2,640 MW. Electrostatic precipitators having a 99% efficiency are to be
used to clean the flue gases. Such standards are considered satisfactory.
The Turceni Enterprise, as part of the Project, will establish pollution
monitoring stations, report to the Bank on the results and any corrective
action taken.
4.25      The disturbance to the environment occasioned by opencast mining
operations will be dealt with in accordance with established practice whereby
overburden dumps and worked-out areas are contoured, fertilized and planted
and brought back into agricultural or forestry use.
4.26      Slag and ash will be pumped in fluid suspension to the barren
Ceplea valley, a distance of 4-5 km, where the output from a 2,640-MW station
could be accommodated for 30 years.



- 17 -
5. JUSTIFICATION
Load Growth
5.01      Estimates of load growth are made by the MEE employing regression
analyses using data derived from the national development plan and consumer
growth trends revised at 2-3 year intervals. A linear program model (similar
to that recently developed in the Bank) is used to determine optimum develop-
ment plans taking into account the major forms of system constraints, including
export commitments. The load growth in the period 1970 to 1973 has been 13.8%
in 1971, 11.8% in 1972 and 8.5% in 1973. The reduction in 1973 was the result
of stringent conservation measures imposed to meet the world fuel situation.
The forecast to 1976 shows a mean growth rate of 12.9%. Thereafter a decline
to 9.4% by 1980 has been assumed. In the light of Romania's industrial and
social development targets for the forecast peirod, the 1973 reduction is
likely to be offset and the forecast sector growth achieved. A decision, made
recently, to provide lower standards of reliability for some sections of the
system demand by reducing the present plant reserve margin of approximately
20% of plant installed, is a good indication of the awareness of the costs
of security. Since studies of this type are particularly relevant to current
research being undertaken in the Bank, it is proposed to discuss these partic-
ular programs with the Romanian planners with a view to increasing the sharing
of knowledge on these planning methods between the Bank and Romania.
5.02      The forecast figures of interconnected system maximum demand shown
in Annex 8 were derived by the Bank staff from the sales forecast in the ab-
sence of data from the Romanian authorities. By 1979 when the Turceni plant
is commissioned, the system maximum demand is expected to be about 13,800 MW.
The energy to be generated implies a higher utilization of the thermal plant
from the present system average of 5,000 hrs p.a. to 6,200 hrs p.a. Such is
the expressed aim of the authorities concerned.
Comparison of Alternatives
5.03      The Romanian authorities described the methods they use for forward
planning and making investment decisions including the derivation of least
cost programs. Data in support of the Turceni Project investment decision
were given in part covering specific thermal alternatives (Annex 13). Special
arguments were put forward as follows.
5.04      Nuclear plant has not so far been employed in Romania and it is
thought prudent to embark slowly in this field. The existence of solid car-
boniferous fuels in the country, the need to gain experience in nuclear tech-
niques, and the probable advantages of improved designs to be gained by delay-
ing major investments in nuclear stations, contribute to this view. The first
step towards gaining experience has been taken by the placing of an order for
a 440-MW plant to be supplied by the USSR. The capital cost of such a station
is estimated to be 7,800 lei/kW (US$390/kW) and the cost of power generated
0.14 lei/kWh (7 mills/kWh), which compares with 4,300 lei/kW (US$215/kW)
allowing price escalation to completion, and 0.18 lei/kWh (9 mills/kWh) for
the Turceni Project.



- 18 -
5.05      The hydro resources of the country are well researched and the
program for the Romanian Five-Year Plan 1976-80 which covers the Project
period, provides for the commissioning of 2,000 MW of hydro capacity, in-
cluding 320 NW at Riu Mare in 1980 which may eventually be considered for
future Bank financing. The ratio of thermal plant to hydro plant is now
of the order of 3.5:1 and this ratio will be maintained during the plan
period. This is reasonable considering the largely peaking characteristics
of the hydro resources. It leaves ample room for base load lignite plants
such as Turceni. The plan absorbs the feasible hydro construction capabil-
ity in the period.
5.06      Natural gas, available in Romania and presently used to generate
59% of the total thermal energy production, is a diminishing resource. In
this context and bearing in mind the high quality of the gas (para. 2.09),
the Romanian policy is to conserve gas for petrochemical feedstock in which
application it can be demonstrated to have a 2-1/2 times greater value than
for power production.
5.07      The relative merits of generation using imported fuel oil are
discussed in Annex 13 and indicate that fuel-oil fired plant would be compet-
itive only at a price for fuel oil below US$37 per ton, which is well below
current market prices. Romania's indigenous oil resources are believed to
be on the decline. While it is not possible for lack of comprehensive data
to demonstrate that the lignite station is a part of the least cost program,
it is clear that with an annual system growth in excess of 1,000 MW, there
is a proper place for a base load plant such as Turceni in any plan develop-
ing the thermal and hydro resources of the country in suitable proportions.
The construction of an oil-based alternative would necessitate importation
of fuel since Romanian production is fully committed. The development of
indigenous lignite resources therefore reduces the need for scarce foreign
currency which would otherwise be needed to purchase fuel from abroad.
Economic Rate of Return
5.08      The rate of return (Annex 14) is 8.6% if benefits are measured by
incremental revenue attributable to the Project and financial costs are ad-
justed for taxes and internal transfers. However, the incremental revenue
understates the benefits consumers receive from the Project, since the level
of tariffs (particularly for industrial users) is low. Also, the incremental
revenue excludes the social benefits deriving from expanded industrial employ-
ment and urbanization which the incremental energy provided by the Project
would help to foster. If export prices for power (Annex 7) are used as a
measure to calculate total benefits, the rate of return would be 11.5%.
5.09      In the light of the foregoing arguments, the development of an
indigenous lignite fuel resource and a thermal power station based on it,
is an appropriate part of the overall development plan.



- 19 -
6. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Summary
6.01      The financial analysis has not been as detailed as is normally con-
ducted by the Bank in appraising power projects due to the limited information
made available, particularly on the sector investment plans, the bases of fore-
casts for fuel costs and energy sales and details of assets financed outside
the sector, e.g. by the other Ministries and the SCM. Nevertheless the in-
formation made available is sufficient to enable judgments to be made about
the adequacy of the financial planning system and the continuance of an ac-
ceptable level of performance by the Romanian power sector.
6.02      A review has been made of the financial position and forecasts
(Annexes 16-18) of the Industrial Central and its enterprises. It was based
on their performance over the 3 years 1970 to 1972 and the sector development
plans for 1973-80 prepared prior to November 1973 and shows rates of return
between 4% and 6% while internal cash generation will meet nearly half of the
capital investment requirements of the sector to 1980. Considering the ab-
sence of long-term debt service and the size of the investment requirements
(US$5.3 billion equivalent) the forecast performance is satisfactory. How-
ever, following a Government decree which was enacted on November 17, 1973
to conserve fuel and energy (Annex 1), the Ministry of Electrical Energy com-
menced an extensive review of its development program and energy sales fore-
casts. Although the financial plans of the Industrial Central may change
substantially as a result of this review, they will not be jeopardized be-
cause the plans of the Industrial Central are a part of the national Socio-
Economic Plan which is financed from State sources.
Past and Present Financial Aspects
6.03      The Romanian system of accounts (Annex 15) varies from the conven-
tional presentation in that Government contributions from the State Budget
are not treated as equity or subject to interest payments or dividends. In
the balance sheet, net fixed assets in service are represented under liabil-
ities by a fixed asset fund instead of by equity and borrowings. Work in
progress expenditures are matched by "sources of investments" on the liabil-
ities side of the balance sheet. With this format the debt/equity concept is
not relevant.
6.04      Analysis of the income statements (Annex 16) of the Industrial Central
for the years 1970-72 shows a gradually improving trend not inconsistent with
a situation of constant tariffs and unit costs. Operating revenues and sales
show an annual rate of growth of about 12%. An unusual feature of operating
revenues is that 10% is derived from the sale of thermal energy (heat). While
average revenue per kWh sold improved slightly during the period, operating
costs were reduced from 0.305 lei per kWh to 0.294 lei per kWh largely due to
the commissioning of larger and more efficient plant and increased generation



- 20 -
from hydro sources. As a result the rate of return improved from 4.2% to 5.0%.
Though these rates of return appear low, they were sufficient to enable the
sector to provide 47% of the capital investment requirements for the period.
A major contributing factor to this latter figure was the total absence of
long-term debt or dividends on the equity.
6.05      The financial position displayed in the balance sheet for 1970-72
(Annex 17) is sound. The only borrowings, Investment Bank loans, have each
been repaid in the following year. Most accounts receivable and creditors
are settled within 5 days, i.e.: as long as it takes to authorize the account
and effect the transfer of funds between bank accounts. Accounts receivable
outstanding represent about 13 days sales. This low level of outstandings
is achieved by rendering estimated accounts for the large industrial consumers
as often as every 10 days and in some cases more frequently. Domestic con-
sumers pay their accounts promptly. Fuel and material stocks valued at 953
million lei at the end of 1972 (about US$48 million equivalent) appear large
but represent about 10 weeks consumption of lignite and other fuels - a prudent
policy.
6.06      Gross fixed assets in service, which have increased at the rate of
about 14.5% per annum between 1970 and 1972, are valued on a historical cost
basis at 55.8 million lei (US$2.8 billion equivalent). In view of the histo-
rically low level of inflation in Romania this basis appears realistic. De-
preciation has averaged about 3.5% of gross fixed assets in service, a per-
centage which considered in relation to the plant mix indicates the rates
generally are adequate.
Financinp Plan
6.07      Annex 18 sets out the sources and applications of funds.  An extract
for the period 1973-79 is given below.



- 21 -
1973-79
Millions of lei               %
Sources of Investments
Internal Sources
Benefits Reinvested                      18,665          21
Depreciation                             21,880          25
Other Sources /1                            448           1
Gross Internal Cash Generation             40,993          47
Less:  Debt Service                           483          (1)
Net Internal Cash Generation               40,510                   46
External Sources
State Budget Allocation                  45,267          52
Investment Bank Loans                       448           1
Proposed IBRD Loan                        1,200           1
Total External Sources             46,915                   54
87 425                  100
Construction Requirements
Proposed Turceni Thermal
Power Project /2                         7,346                    8
Other Construction                       80,079                   92
80J7 425                100
/1   Primarily sales of scrap materials and obsolete equipment.
7T   Includes interest during construction 276 million lei.
The Industrial Central's investment program requiring about 87.4 billion lei
(US$4.4 billion equivalent) will be financed 46% from internal cash generation
and 54% from external sources of which 52% will come from State budget allo-
cations, 1% from Investment Bank loans and 1% from the proposed Bank loan.
6.08      For the purposes of the forecasts, it has been decided in discussions
with the TEE that 70% of total benefits will be reinvested in the Industrial
Central's projects; the remainder is to be distributed as described in para.
3.16. These reinvested benefits will meet 21% of the total requirements
while depreciation and other sources will provide 25% and 1% respectively.
6.09      The Investment Bank loans will each be repaid in the following year
subject to interest at 2% per annum. This interest has been capitalized and
is not included as debt service as the loans are not a long-term debt but short
term advances. The proposed Bank loan is assumed to be for 1.2 billion lei



- 22 -
(US$60 million equivalent) at 7.25% for a term of 25 years including a 5-1/2
year period of grace. The Investment Bank will meet the debt service on the
Bank loan and has agreed that the sum of the annual benefits and provision
for depreciation of the Turceni Enterprise will, after the project is com-
pleted in 1979, be sufficient to cover the debt service payments on the Bank
loan. At that time the assets taken on charge will be valued in respect of
their foreign content financed out of the proceeds of the loan, at a rate of
exchange US$1 = 20 lei as confirmed by the Investment Bank except where items
manufactured or similar to those manufactured in Romania are imported in which
case they will be valued according to internal Romanian prices. Similarly
items manufactured in Romania and financed out of the loan will be valued
according to the internal Romanian prices.
6.10      The Government is undertaking a comprehensive review of prices
which will result in the gradual adoption during 1974/75 of a revised pricing
system under Law No. 19/1971. Prices will be based on the average cost of
production plus an approved profit margin. In the power sector, the tariffs
have already been revised and as a result the average revenue per kWh sold
is expected to increase 1.4% by 1975 above those forecast in the projections.
Prices for fuels are unchanged except for a slight increase (less than 1%))
in the price of coal, and a slight reduction of about 1.6% in the price of
lignite. These changes and any further changes which may arise from the re-
view would not jeopardize the financing plan since allocations from the State
Budget are provided each year to balance the funds available from all other
sources so as to meet the total requirements of the investment plans approved
for the sector.
Future Financial Position
6.11      The financial forecasts 1973-1980 (Annexes 16-18) show little basic
change from the patterns of past performance. Operating revenues and sales
are projected to increase at about 11% per annum to 1980 (1970-72, 12%) and
gross fixed assets in service will nearly treble to 154 billion lei (US$7.7
billion equivalent) - a rate of growth of 13.5% (1970-72, 14.5%). Rates of
return improve from 5.0% in 1972 to 5.9% in 1976, declining to 4.3% in 1980
and the internal contribution to investment slips from 47% (1970-72) to 46%
of total investment needs. The decline in the rate of return between 1976
and 1980 is principally due to the number of new plants added to the net
fixed assets base during the period whose cost per kW is greater than that
of presently installed plant. Despite the low rate of return, because of the
high internal contribution to investment, the forecast financial performance
is considered satisfactory. Tariffs and costs have been assumed to be un-
changed from 1973 levels. Notes and other assumptions for the financial
forecasts are presented in Annex 19.
6.12      In view of the overall satisfactory financial performance by the
sector, no financial covenants have been sought. Instead, the Government
has set out the principles it follows when making major investment decisions
with the understanding that these principles will continue to be applied.
The borrower also agreed to furnish financial and economic information to
enable the Bank to evaluate the benefits of the Project to the Romanian



- 23 -
economy and the position of the Turceni Enterprise in the Romanian power
sector. There will be reasonable opportunity for representatives of the
power sector and the Bank to discuss this information.
Audit
6.13      The finances of all economic units in Romania are subject to close
audit scrutiny primarily to ensure that planned performance is achieved and
that investments in fixed assets are used efficiently. Each enterprise and
central has its own internal controllers who are appointed by the respective
Ministry with the approval of the Ministry of Finance. They are required to
carry out annually a basic audit which is prescribed by Law 5 of 1970 and
certify the correctness of the accounts and present an opinion on the effi-
ciency of operations. The scope of the audit under Law 5 of 1970 appears to
be adequate for Bank purposes but the internal controllers are not considered
to be sufficiently independent to certify the accounts. For this reason,
reports on and certification of the accounts should be given by a body out-
side the MEE.
6.14      The Romanian banks play a key role in external control.  The National
Bank monitors the use of working capital throughout the year. Similarly, the
Investment Bank controls all investment expenditures ensuring that projects
are executed according to plan. Further it checks all orders before they
are placed, approves contract variations and makes all payments after first
ensuring that they have been correctly authorized.
6.15      The Ministry of Finance reviews the reports of the internal con-
trollers reporting its findings to the Council of Ministers. Recently there
was established in Romania a Court of Superior Control whose primary function
is to control the Ministries and the banks and to ensure that the main objec-
tives of the National Plan are being achieved. The Court reports annually to
the President and the Council of State.
6.16      The Borrower agreed to obtain and furnish to the Bank within 3
months of the end of each fiscal year an independent audit report from the
Ministry of Finance on its own accounts and financial statements and on those
of the Turceni Enterprise. Similarly the Government and the Investment Bank
undertook to furnish each year an audit report on the accounts of the Indus-
trial Central.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01      The Loan and Guarantee Agreements and the supplemental letters will
record the following principal agreements, undertakings and assurances:
(a) arrangements will be made for insurance of all imported goods
to be financed under the loan to the place of importation into
Romania under policies payable in a currency freely usable by
Romania (para. 4.11);



- 24 -
(b) half yearly data will be furnished on lignite production by
source for the period reported on together with a forecast
for the next 6 monthly period (para. 4.18);
(c) the department and agencies responsible for carrying out the
Project will cooperate effectively with each other (para. 4.19);
(d) the development of new and expansion of existing lignite mines
and rail links between the mines and the power station will be
carried out as provided in the State Plan (para. 4.19);
(e) the Turceni Enterprise will, as part of the Project, establish
pollution monitoring stations, report to the Bank on the results
and any corrective action taken (para. 4.24);
(f) the sum of the annual benefits and provision for depreciation
of the Turceni Enterprise will, after the Project is completed
in 1979, be sufficient to cover the debt service payments, which
will be made by the Borrower, on the Bank loan (para. 6.09);
(g) financial and economic information will be furnished to enable
the Bank to evaluate the benefits of the Project to the Romanian
economy and the position of the Turceni Enterprise in the Romanian
power sector. There will be reasonable opportunity for represen-
tatives of the power sector and the Bank to discuss this informa-
tion (para. 6.12); and
'h) within 3 months of the end of each fiscal year the Bank will
receive an independent audit report from the Ministry of Finance
on the accounts and financial statements of the Turceni Enter-
prise (para. 6.16).
7.02      As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan the technical
and economic indicators for the Project should be approved by the Council of
Ministers (para. 4.19).
7.03      In view of the above undertakings, assurances and agreements, the
Project would provide a suitable basis for a loan to the Investment Bank of
US$60 million equivalent for a period of 25 years including a grace period
of 5-1/2 years.



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
ROMANIA
TURCENI THERMAL POWiER PROJECT
Extracts from Govwnment Decree on Conserving Fuel and
Energy (November 17, 1973)
CHAPTER 1
Article 1
In order to insure the energy resources needed for the country's
socioeconomic development, geological research and prospecting -- including
offshore drilling -- will be intensified with the view to identifying and
exploiting new geological resources of mineral energy substances.
Likewise, research activities for identifying and exploiting new
energy sources will also be enhanced.
Article 2
In order to better utilize energy resources, particularly engine
fuels, solid fuel will be chiefly utilized in both the production of elec-
tric energy and in other combustion processes. With this view, the develop-
ment of the production of energy conveyors will be geared to increased
extraction and to expanding the utilization of solid fael -- coal and bitu-
minous shale:
The Ministry of Mining, Petroleum and Geology -will facilitate
studies, designs and other measures necessary for the earlier opening of
new solid fuel mines and pits, particularly of earth coal- along with the
Ministry of Electrical Ererg, that Ministry will take ali the necessary vea-
sures to complete the first plant streamlined on bituminous shale by 1978,
likewise, alongside the Ministry of Heavy Machine-Building Industry, it
will establish measures for locally producing the equipment and installations
necessary to furnish the new mines and pits.
The studies and program of measures will be submitted to the
Council of Ministers for approval by March 31, 1974.
The Ministry of Mining, Petroleum and Geology and the Ministry
of Metallurgical Industry, alongside the Ministry of Chemical Industry and
the Ministry of Forestry Economy and Coastruction Materials, will accelerate
research, design and commissioning operations with the view to fully taking
advantage of the useful mineral contents found in shale.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
Article 3
Measures will be taken to reduce and gradually eliminate the
utilization of hydrocarbons in combustion processes; crude oil and gases
will primarily be reserved for chemical treatments, with which view:
(a) Installed capacities in electric plants will be increased
chiefly by means of solid fuels, hydropower potential and
nuclear plants; it is forbidden to design and build new
thermopower plants streamlined on liquid ftels or gas; like-
wise, whenever possible, it is forbidden to design and build
new industrial installations which consume liquid faels or
gases in their combustion processes, as well as to expand
the network of pit gas distribution for combustion processes.
(b) Measures will be taken to intensify the construction of hydro-
power plants aimed at taking maximum advantage of the hydro-
power potential of internal rivers through their complex ex-
ploitation in stages, as well as of the hydropower potential
of the Danube in cooperation with riparian countries; the
Ministry of Electric Power, the Ministry of the Heavy Machine-
Building Industry and the Ministry of Machine-Tool Building
and Electrical Engineering Industry will establish and submit
to the Council of Ministers, within 4 months of the date of
endorsement of the present decree, a program for intensifying
the construction of hydropower plants based on the maximum
rate of construction possible.
(c) The necessary preparatory measures will be taken as regards
the design and supply of equipment and installations necessary
to accelerate the achievement of the program of construction
of nuclear plants.
(d) Tho Ministry of Electrical Energy will establish studies and pro-
posals divided into stages up to the end of the first half of
1974 for gradually reverting the thermo-electric plants in
operation or under construction from consumption of gases and
naphtha to solid faels.
(e) The Ministry of Electrical Energy will take measures to insure
that the types and quantities of fuel approved are strictly
observed in the production of electric and thermal energy.
Article 5
With the view to utilizing some resources of primary energy
that have not yet been utilized, especially underground thermal waters,
the National Council for Science and Technology, along with the Ministry



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
of Mining, Petroleum and Geology., the Ministry of Electrical Energy and the
executive committees of county people's councils and of Bucharest munici-
pality will establish programs of studies, research and actions necessary
to gradually put these resources into economic circulation, beginning in
1975 at the latest.
CHAPTER II
Article 8(D)
The inistry of Electrical Energy will take measures to improve
combustion processes, thus enhancing the productivity of energy and
insuring reduced consumption in electric plants, as well as losses in
transfer networks; it will also establish measures to insure a substantial
reduction in this consumption as of June 1, 1974.
Article 8(E)
Socialist units consuming electric power will take measures so
that all shifts can obtain optimal consumption indexes of fuel and electric
and thermal energy by intensively exploiting equipment, avoiding idle use
and rationally distributing heat and lighting in accordance with strict
production requirements.
CHAPTER V
Article 27
The Ministry of Electrical Energy, along with the Ministry of
Technical-Material Supply and Control of the Management of Fixed Assets
and the General State Inspectorate for Guiding and Controlling the Plan-
ning and Carrying out of Construction, will draw up, in cooperation with
specialized design institutes within 90 days of the date of endorsement
of the present decree, uniform national norms on lighting in industry and
other producing capacities, open air installations, administrative buildings,
public roads and those within plant areas, shopping centers, sociocultural
and other buildings; during the same period, they will establish norms for
household lighting and other uses so as to insure rational lighting in
relation to the size of the living space, as well as the normal fmunctioning
of household electrical appliances and utensils at regular rates of operation.



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
Article 28
lWlith a view to exercising strict control over the consumption
of electric power and natural gases, electric power meters will be installed
for all consumers in the economy by December 31, 1974 and natural gas meters
in stages by the end of 1975; after these deadlines have expired, it will
be forbidden to supply electric power and natural gas without meters.
CHAPTER VI
Article 30
The Ministry of Technical and Material Supply and Control of
the Management of Fixed Assets, the State Planning Committee and the
Central Directorate for Statistics will draw up and forward to the Council
of Ministers for approval within 30 days of the date of endorsement of
the present decree proposals for improving the information system in the
field of supervising fael and electric power consumption per cwnsumer.
Article 31
With a view to insuring a uniform policy in the field of the
judicious utilization of fuel and energy resources and their rational
administration, a Permanent Commission for the Coordination, Guidance
and Control of Fuel, Electric and Thermal Power Consumption is established
comprised of representatives of the Ministry of Technical-Material Supply
and Control of the Management of Fixed Assets, the State Planning Committee,
the Einistry of Mining, Petroleum and Geology, the Ministry of Chemical
Industry, the  Ministry of Electrical Energy, and National Council for Science
and Technology and the National Cozmission for Geological Reserves.
Article 32
The ministries and other central bodies, the Executive committees
of the coumtry people's councils and of Bucharest municipality, the cen-
trals, entelprises and other units will immediately start revising consunp-
tion norms and establishing the necessary measures for reducing the con-
sumption of fuel and electric and thermal power in sections, workshops and
working places; they will immediately apply the provisions of the present
decree a-nd introduce the reduced rates of consumption established for 1973
and 1974, thus insuring the complete achievement of the plan tasks.
As regards problems pertaining to activity throughout 1974 and
after, the ministries and other plan fulfillers, as well as the executive



ANMEX 1
Page 5 of' 5
committees of country people's councils and Bucharest municipality, will
establish programs of actions per enterprise, central, ministry and people's
council, within 2 months of the date of endQrsement of the present decree
with a view to developing the sources of primary energy and conserving them.
These problems will be examined and endorsed by the Council of
Ministers, which will supervise the inQlusiQn of the relevant tasks and
measures in national socioeconomic development plans and control their
implementation.
March 1974






ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 15
ROMANIA
TURCENI THBAE L POWER PROJECT
Mining Aspects of the Turceni Power ProJect
1.    INTRODUCTION
1.1   General
1.1.1     This Annex assesses the mining aspects of the Turceni power projeat
-with particular reference to the viability of the plans for the fuiel supply
and its economic cost.
1.1.2     Construction has already started on the power station at Turceni
and the first stage of 1,320 MW installed capacity is expected to reach
full output in 1980 when the total consumption of lignite will be about 11
million tonnes per annum. There are nine mines already in production. Two
new mines are being developed in the Rovinari area to supply the bulk of the
lignite requirements. They are:
Million tons
per amnum
Matasari (underground)                          3
South Jilt (opencast)                           8
Total                                     11
1G2 Location
1.2.1     The power station is located in the Oltenia region in the valley
of the River Jiu whilst the mines are about 35 kIm to the north-west in the
basin of the River Jilt. The rivers are small and rise in the Southern
Carpathians (2,500 m altitude) to the north flowing southward through the
foothills where the lignite deposits of economic interest are found (300 m
altitude). The terrain is generally good wood and farmland with many villages
strung out along the roads. The main towns are Craiova to the south and
Tirgu Jiu to the north and townships are under development at the mine and
power station sites.
1e3 Climate
13e1     The climate is continental with long hot summers and long cold
winters. The lowest winter temperatures are -5 to -100C although occasionally
temperatures of -300C have been experienced. Considerable snow and ice is
usual.
14 Mining Organization
1.4.1     Coal mining activities in Romania are organized under the Petrosani
Coal Central which is responsible to the Ministry of Mines, Oil and Geology.
1/  By S.C. Brealey, Consultant, Pbwell Duffryn Technical Services Ltd.



AMEX 2
Page 2 of 15
The Central has financial relations with other organizations in Romania
and also overseas suppliers although overseas trading is handled through
IMPEXMIN. Subsidiary organizations comprise:
5 mining enterprises
2 mining cooperatives
2 research and design institutes
1 enterprise for mining equipment
7 industrial schools
8 mining exploitations
1 coal preparation plant
1 supply, transport and services administration
l.4.2     Those organizations of main significance to the Turceni power
project comprise:
Rovinari Mining Enterprise - responsible for the operation of
the opencast mines to the east of Jilt currently supplying the
Rovinari power station and limited quantities by rail to Craiova
power station; the new South Jilt opencast mine and the constrac-
tion of the surface works for Matasari underground mine; and the
opencast development at Lupoaia.
Motru Mining Enterprise - responsible for underground mines to the
west of Jilt currently supplying Craiova power station and later
for the operation of the Matasari underground mine; also a new
township at Motru where many of the Jilt and Matasari workers will
live.
Craiova Mining Research and Design Institute for Lignite - responsible
for design studies and mine planning of the lignite mines in Oltenia.
Jiu Valley Coal Preparation Plant - responsible for coal preparation
etc. for the Rovinari power station.
1.5 Land and Mineral Rights
1.5.1     The right to mine the lignite is granted by the Commission for
Land Utilization which is a body responsible to the Council of Ministers.
Compensation is paid to those displaced by the operations and for timber
trees less than five years old. Conditions are laid down for restoration,
i.e. en obligation to level the site, which is then handed over to the
Ministry of Agriculture. Some spoil heaps have already been contoured
and trees planted, including vines.
1,6 Effect on Regional Economic Activity
1.6.1     The mining project will of course stimulate economic activity
in the region by providing direct employment for over 5,000 personnel.
Other possible new industries are processing industries based on lignite,
e.g. liquid and gaseous fuels, chemicals, fertilizers, and the utilization
of fly ash in concrete, light-weight building blocks, etc. The restoration
of worked-out areas will provide employment for agricultural workers.



AM=E 2
Page 3 of 15
2.    GEOLOGY
2.1.1     The lignite deposits of Romania occur in the Dacian Levantine
series of the Tertiary era along the whole length of the foothills of
the Carpathian mountains fram the Iron Gates in the west (Oltenia) to
Ploesti in the east and there are other smaller deposits in northern
Transylvania.
2.1.2     The lignite in Oltenia comprises 90% of the coal reserves of
the country. It is being exploited primarily for power generation and
the recently declared energy policy of the Council of Ministers is to
concentrate on this fael for this purpose and reduce the consumption of
oil and gas.
2.1.3     The volatile content of the lignite is 35 to 38%.  There are
also small deposits of "huile" which has a volatile content of +60% and
"brown coal" which is intermediate in volatile content between the lig-
nite (which is black in these deposits) and huile. Small quantities of
brown coal and huile are mined for damestic purposes. railways, and coke.
2.i.4     The lignite deposits in Oltenia are bounded by the crystalline
rocks of the mountains to the north but to the south the beds continue
although they thin out and are at present uneconomicO The MiRister of
Mines stated that the geological reserves amounted to 9 x 10' tons of
which 3 x lOY tons was considered economic under present conditions.
2.1.5     There are 12 main seams and many intercalated lenses, the mnaxi-
mum seam thickness being 6 m. The seams are more or less horizontal and
the upper seams are cut by the hill and valley topography. The strata is
largely clay but contains beds of sand and gravel which are heavily water-
bearing. Underground mining is not carried out below the main water table.
The opencast mines are dewatered by borehole pumps.
2.1.6     The quality of the lignite is given as follows:
Moisture content             - 34.5 to 41.9%
Ash (dry basis)              -  22.4 to 40.4%
Sulphur (organic)            -  2.42 to 2.67%
Lower calorific value        -  1,945 to 2,567 kcal/kg
2.1.7     Quality is determined only on the clean coal sections of the
borehole cores and statistical methods are not used to ascertain confi-
dence limits. In the course of mining, intercalations of dirt and some
overburden dilutes the coal and this is allowed for by reducing the
calorific value of the run-of-mine lignite, on the basis of experience
in existing mines, to the following:
Opencast mines               - 1,750 kcal/kg
Underground mines            -  1,850 kcal/kg



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 15
2.1.8     Less dilution is experienced in underground mining because only
the two best seams are worked and same lignite is left to support the
roof.
3.    NaNING
3.2.  !cisting Underground Mines
3.1.1     Underground mining is carried out at the following mines which
supply Craiova power station supplemented by some supplies from the Rovinari
opencast mines:
Rosinta
Plostina
Leurda
Horasti
Lupoaia
3.1.2     The method of working is longwall using 80 m to 100 m faces
and the equipment used is of Russian design comprising:
Ranging-drum shearer mounted on armoured face
conveyor (scraper chain). Canopy type self-
advancing, hydraulic roof supports.
3.1.3     The lignite is delivered to rubber belt conveyors which trans-
port it to the surface. Access to the seams is by approximately level
adits or short inclined drifts. Diesel locomotives and mine cars are
used for materials and some production.
3.1.4     The maximum height of seam which can be worked in one lift is
3 m and the 6 m seam is taken in two lifts, although difficulty is expe-
rienced in working the lower portion due to the broken roof. Wire mesh
mats have been used but are not entirely satisfactory.
3.1 5     Conditions can be described as easy compared with the deep coal
mines of WZestern Europe - there is no gas in the workings despite the
proximity of gas fields at greater depths and no great roof pressure.
However, the main difficulties are due to water and the weak rocks com-
prising both the roof and the lignite seams. Water is drained off by
advance headings,
3.1.6     The operation seen was conducted in a competent manner.
3.1.7     At the surface, large lumps of waste are removed by hand-picking
and the coal is screened and crushed by hammer mills to -30 mm before being
loaded into wagons for transport to the powier station.
3.2 Existing Opencast Mines
3.2.1     Opencast mining is carried out at the following mines which supply
Rovinari power station and a small quantity to Craiova power station:



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 15
Girla       )
Cicani      )
Beterega    )   in production
Tismana     )
Rosia de Jiu)    developing
Lupoaia     )
3.2.2     The method of working is the standard method using bucket-wheel
excavators, belt conveyors and overburden spreaders. As there are multiple
seams, some of which are irregular in occurrence, selective excavation is
required because the benches have to be maintained more or less level and
the faces at uniform height (20 m). A conveyor interchange station directs
lignite to the railway loading station and waste to the outside or inside
dumps as required. A larger number of medium-sized excavators has been
selected because the stoppages and loss of output resulting from this type
of operation would render larger machines less economic as well as resulting
in greater peaking of production.
3.3 Coal Production Program for Turceni Power Station
3.3.1     Numerous requests were made for the coal balance showing all the
power station demands and the production of the whole field, mine by mine,
for the whole life of the Tarceni power station but this was never obtained.
3.3.2     The lignite requirements for the Turceni power station up to 1985
are shown in Table 1. The main production will be obtained from the new
South Jilt opencast mine (8 million tpa) and Matasari underground mine but
there will be considerable deficits until 1984 and the way these will be
made up from other mines is shown,  This will involve considerable complica-
tion in train movements and some increases in cost.
3.3.3     South Jilt opencast mine has reserves of 154 million tons, i.e.
19 years at full output, so that it will be worked out in about year 2000,
Matasarin has reserves of 206 million tons, i.e. 69 years at full output.
Therefore the production of South Jilt will need to be replaced before the
Turceni power station (first stage) is fully depreciated.
3.3,4     The total lignite requirements from the Oltenia field are given
below and there is little doubt that Turceni first stage is well covered:
Total Lignite Requirements
from Oltenia Field
Power Stations (up to 1985)
Craiova                                                        9 million tpa
Rovinari                                                      14 million tpa
Turceni 1st stage                                             11 million tpa
3 million tpa



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 15
Ultimate capacity of lignite field                       42 million tpa
Economically workable reserves                        3,000 million tons
Life of field at ultimate capacity                       70 years
3.3.5     The "ultimate" capacity of the field as a whole was given up
as 42 million tpa which does not seem sufficient to cover Turceni second
stage although scme of the Craiova plant will very likely be phased out
by then. In any case it is extremely unlikely that sufficient geological
work and mine planning has been done to determine the "ultimate" capacity
of the field with any accuracy.
3.4   South Jilt Opencast Mine
3.4.1     A box-cut will be developed on the northern side of the taking
and faces will advance in parallel for a short distance and then rotate
through about 1000 in a counter-clockwise direction. The box-cut has been
sited at the shallowest point and will be 80 m deep, the volume of spoil
excavated being 200 million m3 before full production is reached. This
will be dumped outside in a valley over the Matasari workings. Eight
benches will be developed of which three will be continuous and five dis-
continuous, the faces being 20 m high. The working faces will be 2.5 to
3.0 km long. The equipment will consist of 8 identical bucket-wheel
excavators, 2 spreaders, 2 stockpile loading and reclaiming machines and
the conveyor transport system for lignite and spoil.
3.4.2     The average ratio of overburden to lignite is 6,85 m3/t which is
high by usual standards. Whilst the geometry of the deposit has been well-
determined no sector or yearly volumetric calculations appear to have been
carried out and only averages used for economic calculations. However, it
is intended to establish a stripping equalization fand.
3.5   Matasari Underground Mine
3.5.1     The planning for this mine is rudimentary.  Longwall face operations
are standardized and the only items to be determined are the positions of
the mine entrances and main underground roadways and the sequence of working.
Cost variations year by year in this case would be slight and mainly due
to increasing distance from the loading point. No allowance appears to have
been made for varying geological conditions but averages have been applied
based on extensive experience in similar adjacent mines.
3e5e2     Advantage has been taken of the location of the two mines adjacent
to each other to establish common surface facilities including a stockpile
and railway loading station.
3.5.3    Ventilation is no problem as there is no gas and the quantities
of air circulated are determined by the requirements of heat dissipation
and dilution of exhaust gases fram diesel locomotives.



ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 15
4.    LIGNITE HANDLING AND TRANSPORT
4.1.1     Both bucket-wheel excavators and shearers out the lignite by
the action of teeth or picks and generally the size produced is 0 to 200 mm.
In any case the material is weak and subsequent passage through transfer
points breaks up any larger pieces.  Crushing to -30 mm is however necessary
before feeding the boiler mills, and hammer mills are suitable for this
purpose. This process is carried out at present at the Rovinari coal pre-
paration plant for Rovinari power station and at Motru for Craiova power
station. For the Turceni project it is intended to transport the lignite
in the run-of-mine state and crush it at the power station before delivery
to the boilers or to stock. The necessary crushing plant has been included
in the power station project. The smaller size material is better for
stockpiling as it is easier to consolidate and seal and there are no large
lumps to provide air passages. Spontaneous combustion should therefore be
avoided.
4.1.2     Standard gauge railways at present handle the coal traffic from
Motru and Rovinari to Craiova. These lines are in separate valleys and
join to the north of Craiova. A third line in the Jilt valley will connect
the new mines of South Jilt and Matasari to the Turceni power station, a
distance of about 35 kn.
4.1.3     The maximum demand for lignite for Turceni power station (first
stage) is 40,000 tpd and the train will ccmprise 40 bottom-discharge wagons
each holding 55 to 60 tons (i.e. about 2,400 tons/train), drawn by a diesel-
electric locomotive. At maximum demand about 17 trains per day would be
required. One train would be sufficient until about 1980 when two trains
would probably be necessary (excluding spare wagons and locomotive). In
addition, occasional trains would be required from sources other than Jilt/
Matasari (see Table 1).
141.4     The capital cost of the railway constructinn and the rolling
stock (say $10 million) is not included in either the mine or power station
estimates as it would be provided in the budget of the State Railways. How-
ever a freight cost of 8 lei/ton is included in the mining cost.
5.    EQUIRMEWT
5.1   South Jilt Opencast Mine
5.1.1     The main items of equipment comprise the mobile mining machines,
i.e. bucket-wheel excavators, mobile transfer conveyors and overburden
spreaders, the conveyor systems (slewable and fixed) and stockpiling machines,
i.e. stackers and reclaimers or combination stacker/reclaimer.
50102     In October 1973, a licensing agreement was concluded with KRUPP
for the mobile machines under which they will supply complete designs, some
components and supervision of erection, the remaining components being



ANNXJ 2
Page 8 of 15
manufactured in Romania to their designs. The conveyor structures will
also be manufactured in Romania but the drive units will be imported.
The rubber belting, particularly the long steel-cord belts will be
imported under separate contracts.
5.2   Matasari Underground Mine
5.2.1     The main items of equipment imported are the longwall shearers
and heading machines and these are of Russian make.   The roof supports
and conveyors are largely manufactured in Romania.
5.3   Central Workshops, Rovinari
5.3.1     A lavishly equipped central workshop has been constructed at
Rovinari and although not yet fully equipped, work has already started
on excavator tracks links and conveyor idlers. The equipment ccmprises
an extensive range of machine tools including 20 turret lathes and also
well-equipped forge and fabrication shops but no foundry. The workshop
will serve all the mines for heavy repair work and will also manufacture
many spare parts and components.
6.    ECONOMICS
6.1   Capital Investments
6.1.1     The capital costs of the mines (1973-1983) are approximately
as folloows:
Million lei    Million $       _
South Jilt             2,930          146         70
Matasari               1,273           64         30
4,203         210        100
(Assuming $1 = 20 lei)
6.1.2     The balance sheet of the Petrosani Coal Central on December 30,
1972 shows the total assets as 9,751 million lei ($488 million) so that
the investment represented by this project is a substantial addition (43%).
Further investments will of course be required to replace the worked out
mines and increase production for Rovinari power station. The total assets
of the Central can therefore be expected to double by about 1982.
6.1.3     The equipment cost amounts to 2,395 million lei ($120 million),
of which, 1,457 million lei ($73 million) is to be imported, of which
1,197 million lei ($60 million) is from western countries. The total dollar
value of the mobile machines for the opencast mine is also given as $62
million.



ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 15
6.1.1[    The overall capital cost, expressed in terms of the total
volume of material mined, works out at about d$;3 per m3 per annum, which
is reasonable for this type of operation.  The geological work, mine
planning and equipment selection are adequate and in the case of both
mines considerable experience of operating conditions is available.
The plans were, in fact, approved by Professor Georgen of Aachen Univer-
sity, and Professor Arnold, Bergakademie of Freiberg, both authorities
on lignite mining. The machines have been adequately rated to allow
for lost time in operation. In the case of the longwall face equipment,
the output per face (less than 300 tons/shift) used in planning is much
less than would be obtained in longwall operations using shearers in
the United Kingdom or USA.
6.1.5     In the case of South Jilt, a large proportion of the invest-
ment, i.e. 608 million lei ($30 million) is in the excavation of the
box-cut which is necessary before o4tput reaches 75% of full production.
This represents about 150 million inr- out of the total volume of the box-
cut of 200 million mr3.  Of course due to the multiplicity of steams sub-
stantial tonnages of lignite will be mined during this period (about
9 years in total).
6.2   Operating Costs
6.2.1     The operating costs for both mines were estimated by the
Craiova Planning Institute, using actual costs prevailing in existing
operations as a basis.  The cost includes all materials, energy, labour,
amortization, services, overheads and sales expenses.  No interest or
"return"1 is included and the Institute is not responsible for calculating
the selling price.
6.2.2     Dealing briefly with each item in turn the following comments
are made:
(i)  Materials - seems low, possibly because few of the earlier
machines are nearing the end of their lives.
(ii)  Energy - the energy consumption was estimated as follows:
Underground              -   10.1 kWh/ton
Opencast                 -   30.9 kWh/ton
Average overall          -   25.0 kWh/ton
These figures are reasonable for this type of mining.
Energy has been costed at 0.3 lei/klkh (15 mills/kWh).
(iii) The total labour required is about 5,685 personnel. Labour
productivity figures are approximately as follows:
Underground    - 3 tons/manshift overall
Opencast        - 12e5 tons/mwnshift overall



AINSI 2
Page 10 of 15
The underground figure is reasonable but the opencast figure
is low by West German standards where values up to 90 tons/
manshift occur in the larger mines. However, wage rates are
only 10 and 20% respectively of those current in Western
Europe or USA, eog.
Opencast Mines
lei/shift           $/shift
Bucket-wheel excavator              72                 3.60
operator
Shovel operator                     50                 2.50
Fitter                              66                 3.30
Electrician                         66                 3e30
Conveyor maintenance                63                3,15
Greaser                             40                 2e00
Plus 12% for bonuses
Underground Mines
lei/shift           $/shift
Miner                              92                  4.60
Longwall team (avg)                87                  4035
Room and pillar team (avg)         81                  4.05
Plus 20% for bonuses
The overall effect is that the labour cost is low. A number
of other benefits including 11% social insurance costs are in
fact included in the overheads, An allowance of 12% has been
made to cover wastage and absenteeism. There is at present
some difficulty in recruiting labour, particularly in the
underground mines, and incentives are being offered, e.g. half
the cost of travelling to work.
(iv) Amortization is calculated as follows:
(a) Fixed assets which last the life of the mine - cost
divided by total planned tonnage of product over the
whole life.
(b) Fixed assets which are of shorter life or could be
transferred at the end of the life of the mine -
amortized over the life of the asset.



ANNEX 2
Page 11 of 15
(v)  Other items in the cost estimate include overheads, central
workshops, exploration, research, and rail freight. There
are no mineral royalties or taxes payable and interest is not
payable on capital allocated in the national budget.
(vi) The resulting average cost make-up for both mines combined
is as follows:
lei/ton       $ton
Materials                                9.98          0.50
Electrical energy                        9.61         0.48
Direct wages                            10,56          0.53
Direct amortization                     25,67         1.28
Services                                12e35        0o62
Exploration                              0.30         0.02
Research and development                 0.45          0.02
Overheads                                5.61         0.28
Sales expenses                           9.17         Oe46
83.70         4.19
say        84.00         4.20
6.3 Selling Price
6.3.1     The selling price for the lignite is determined by the State
Planning Organization presumably in relationship to other forms of primary
energy available to the economy and also to the cost of production. With
regard to the latter the cost of underground mine production is taken as
the criterion and from this the stripping ratio which can be accepted in
the opencast mines has been determined. At present it is 7 m'/t. If the
ratio were higher than this then the lignite would be worked by underground
means,
6.3e2     The first mines at Rovinari however had stripping ratios of 2.5
to 3.0 m3/t and mining costs are about 42 lei/ton. The next mine in order
of merit is Rosia de Jiu with a ratio of about 5 m3/t. South Jilt with
its ratio of 6.85 m5/t is nearing the acceptable stripping limit. The
mining cost of 42 lei/ton has increased to over 80, which is to be expected
as the volumes of material to be excavated per ton of coal produced have
doubled and wages have increased.
6.3.3     The official selling price for Turceni was stated to be 107 lei/ton
($5.35) for lignite of 1,750 kcal/kg calorific value.
6.3.4     The selling price of 107 lei/ton gives a profit of 29.76% expressed
in terms of the average cost. However, the crude return on the total invest-
ment is only 6.3%. A rough calculation of the dcf return gives only 3.7%.



AJNEX 2
Page 12 of 15
Figure 1 shows how the selling price would have to be increased to give
hither dcf rates of return, e.g. for a 10% return the selling price would
have to be 130 lei/ton ($6.50), an increase of 21.5%.
6.3.5     A rate of return of 3.7%, whilst apparently acceptable in
respect of a state enterprise of this kind, would not of course be suffi-
cient to remunerate 100% western and capital although a relatively smaIl
proportion could be accammodated. It can be concluded that the selling
price has been set at near the very miniimum to break even, presumably as
a result of deliberate policy in the vital energy sector of the economy.
6.3.6    It is intended that a bonus/penalty clause be included in the
sales contract between the mines and power station in respect of calorific
value as measured, but the formula has not yet been settled. The present
contracts at Rovinari adjust the selling price by + 1% for each + 1%
change in ash and moisture content (39% ash, 43.5% moisture baseT - which
is generous favorable to the seller as the penalty for below grade deli-
veries is less than the proportionate reduction in calorific value.
7.   CONCLUSIONS
(i)  The geological investigations and mine planning, construction
and operating standards are adequate.
(ii)  The reserves and planned mine capacities are adequate to support
at least Turceni first stage.
(iii) The mining methods selected are orthodox and suitable for the
deposits.
(iv)  The South Jilt stripping ratio is near the acceptable stripping
limit.
(v) Capital costs are realistic and capital is available from the
State budget.
(vi)  The availability of resources is adequate although labour
recruitment is causing problems.
(vii)  Operating cost estimates (84 lei/ton ($4.20)) are reasonable
although it would have been better to have calculated them on
a year-by-year basis rather than an overall average.
(viii) The selling price (107 lei/ton ($5.35)) gives only a minimal
return on the investment (3.7% dcf).
(ix)  The manufacturing and construction programs for the mines, power
station and railway are large and should be closely controlled
to ensure that delays are prevented as far as possible.



ANNEX 2
Page 13 of 15
(x) Most of the material to be imported from the West is already
covered by the KRUPP licence and the only item which could
'be supplied by international tender appears to be the conveyor
belting.
December 7, 1973



TABLE I
LIGNITE REQUIREMENTS OF TURCENI POWER STATION (1ST STAGX)
AND SOURCES OF SUP-PLY 1977 - 19$5
(103 tone)
1976  1977   1978      1979      1980       1961      1982       1983       1984      19A5      Totil
Power station requirements          -    166    3,120    8,260    10,780    10,780    10,780    10,780    10,780    10,780    76,206
South Jilt opencast mine and       190   720    1,980    3,620      4,400      5,840      8,700     9,860    11,000    11,000    51,310
MaL,isari underground mine
Surplus or (deficit)               190   554   (1,140)  (4,620)  ( 6,380)  ( 4,940)  ( 2,080)        (920)       220        220   (18,896)
Cumulative surplus or (deficit)  190   744        (396)  (5,016)  (11,396)  (16,336)  (18,418)  (19,336)  (ll16i)  (18,596)
Other sources of supply:
From stock at Jilt/Matasari       -     -       744       -        -          -          -         _          _          _          744
Tehomir underground               -     -       200       400       600        650        700       800 g                _        3,350
Peateana opencast                 -     -       196    1,600      2,400      2,400     1,380        120       _          _        8,095
Luponia opencast                  -     -       -       2,200     3,000      1,890       _         _                     _        7,090
Alboni underground                -     -       _         200        380      -          _         _          _                      680
Motru group underground           -     -       -         220      -          -          -         _            .                   220
Totals covering deficits above    =       -     1,140    4,620      6,380      4,940      2,080       920       _        -         20,060
December 7, 1973 
0
H



ANNEX 2
Page 15 of 15
RNA2NIA                            Fig. 1
LIGNITE SELLING PRICE & SUBSEQUENT
PROFIT   AGAINST   D.C.F.   RATE    OF   RETURN
PRICE                                                                            PROFIT
s0
130
40
120
TON.                                                                              30
OFF IC IA
17-SELLINJ
PRICE
100                7                                                         2
I10
90                        -                                   -
3  1 4       5        1i7                8        9       10 
3.7
D.C.F. RATE   OF  RETURN  lo/o)
Powell Duffryn Technical
Services Ltd. ondon
March 1974                                                        Eng:rt  Date I Drg. No.
S.C.8. 3-12-731552/1






ROMANIA
MINISTRY OF ELECTRICAL ENERGY
ORGANIZATION CHART
MANAGING COUNCIL
OF THE
MINISTRY
EXECUTIVE BOARD
I  MINISTER
OF
FLECTRICAL ENERGY>
|    Euy llDEPUTY                         ED|   DEUTY                                                                                                 E        |T                                  O
|MINISTER                                    M ' INSTER                                                                                          |MNISTER                                           p 
INVESTMENT/                             TECHNICAL/                                 PLANNING/        PERSONNEL/LEGAL          FINANCIAL           PROCUREMENT
CONSTR UCTION                       CONSUM ER ELAT IONS                           DEVELOPMENT       TRAINING/PROTOCO        DEPARTMENTS               RELATION<
DEPARTMENTS                            DEPARTMENTS                                DEPARTMENTS          DEPARTMENTs                               DEPARTMENTS
U
DESIGN INSTITUTE                           *INDUSTRIAL CENTRAL             1/                                   NATIONAL                             THERMALCONSTRUCTION
FOR THERMAL STUDIES (ISPE)                 'FOR ELECTRIC POWER & HEAT tCIEET)                                   DISPATCH                             TRUST tTECI
CENTER                                                          5.
DESIGN INSTITUTE                            CENTRE FOR TRAINING                                                                                      HYDRO CONSTRUCTION
FOR HYDRO STUDIES (ISPH)                    PROFESSIONAL STAFF                                                                                       TRUST tTCHI
NUCLEAR RESEARCH                            INSTITUTE FOR ELECTRICAL                                                                                 ELECTRO-MECHANICAL
ENTERPRISES                                 AND THERMAL ENERGY RESEARCH                                                                              TRUST (TEN M.)
HV. TRANSMISSION & 
POWER SYSTEMS RECORDS CENTER                                                                            SUBSTATION TRUST (TEM)
TRADE TRAINING SCHOOL                         .R"ROMENERGO" -FOREIGN                                                                a
SUPPLY ENTERPRISE FOR      Z
CENTRAL & ELECTRICAL GRIC  2
ENTERPRISE FOR METAL
U.its Directly Concerned With The Turceni Project                                                                                                               CONSTRUCTITON&             to
1/ See A-ne. 5 For Organization Chart of Indwmtral Central For Electric Power & Heet                                                                                    PREFABRICATION
MARCH 1974                                                                                                                                                                                             _
WorId BEnk-8274RR)



ROMAN IA
INDUSTRIAL CENTRAL FOR ELECTRIC POWER AND HEAT
ORGANIZATION CHART
ASSEMBLY OF
THE WORKING
PEOPLE
I
WORKING l
PEOPLES'
COUNCIL
EXECUTIVE
BOARD
GENERAL j/
PLNIGAN    _        MANAGER-
DVLPMENT __
PERSONNEL POLICY
POWER STATION                ELECTRIC NETWORK                    DEVELOPMENT                        CHIEF                            GENERATION7-/1
DEPARTMENT                      EPARTMENT                       & SUPPLY DEPT.                  ACCOUNTANT                          ENTERPRISES l
PRODUCTION & REPAIR            DISTRIBUTION                      INVESTMENT, CONSTRUCTION        FINANCE, ECONOMIC              DISTRIBUTION
SUPERVISION AND                OPERATION & MAINTENANCE           & ERECTION DEPARTMENT           ANALYSIS AND FINANCIAL          ENTERPRISES
ADVISORY DEPT.                 PLANNING & SUPERVISION DEPT.                                      CONTROL DEPARTMENT
MANUFACTURING
FLECTRIC POWER                ELECTRIC NETWORK                  EXPORT-IMPORT, EQUIPMENT     TACCOUNTING.DEPT                  ENTERPRISES
PILANT TECHNICAL               TECHNICAL BUREAU                  & SUPPLY DEPARTMENT             ACUTN   E                        NEPIE
BUREAU
POWER STATION                  ELECTRIC NETWORK                  ELECTRIC POWER & HEAT           ADMINISTRATIVE
RESEARCH & DESIGN              RESEARCH & DESIGN                 SUPPLY DEPARTMENT               SECRETARIAT
COMPUTATION DEPT.
1/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
1 General Ma ,ager is a Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Electrical Energy                                                       World Bank827612R)
2/ See Annex 6 For Organization Chart of a Generation Enterprise
MARCH 1974



ROMANIA
INDUSTRIAL CENTRAL FOR ELECTRIC POWER AND HEAT
TYPICAL ORGANIZATION CHART FOR A GENERATION ENTERPRISE
ASSEMBLY OF
THE WORKING
PEOPLE
WORKING
PEOPLES'
COMMITTEE
OPERATING
MANAGEMENT
COLLECTIVE
GENERAL
PLANNING AND                          MANAGER
DEVELOPMENT
PERSON~NEL
POLICY
DEPUTY DIRECTOR                    DEPUTY DIRECTOR                 ADMINISTRATIVE                      CHIEF
ENGINEER/COMMERCIAL                     TECHNICAL                       SERVICES                       ACCOUNTANT
NEW CONSTRUCTION               PRODUCTION ORGANIZATION                                            ACCOUNTS & COSTING
CONSUMER RELATIONS               MAINTENANCE PROGRAM                                              INTERNAL CONTROL
WITH DISTRIBUTION ENTERPRISES
CONTRACTORS                     _ OPERATING LABORATORIES
PROCUREMENT
SHIFT SUPERINTENDENTS
STORES & EQUIPMENT               PRODUCTION
L DEPARTM ENTS
BOI LERS
TURBI NES
ELECTRICAL
CHEMICAL
FUEL
REPAIRS
MARCH 1974                                                                                          World Bank-8276 (R)






AMOX 6
Pae . of 2
TURCENI THERNAL POWER PROJECT
Decree of the Council of Ministers Eatabligkh;n
the Turceni. Enterprise
Regarding the construction of the electrical plant at
Turceni, subordinate to the industrial plant of electric and
thermal energy within the Ministry of Electrical Energy.
The Council of Ministers of the Socialist Republic of
Romania, decidest
Article 1  -  the "coming into being" of the electric
plant at Turceni, is established on the date of August 1, 1973,
with its centre in the town of Turceni, district of Gorj, subor-
dinate to the Industrial Central for Electric Energy (and thermal)
and under the guidance and control of the Ministry of Electrical
Energy.
The electric power plant of Turceni is organized and
will function as a State enterprise, based upon the principle of
economical administration, with a juridical personality, according
to the legal provisions concerning the organization and administration
of socialist units belonging to the State and its objective of activ-
ity is to be that of producing electric power.
The electric power plant of Turceni is to be part of a
special grade of organization.
Article 2  - Up to the commissioning of the planned
capacities of the thermo-electric plant at Turceni., the enterprise
of the electric plant at Turceni will fulfill the prerogatives of
beneficiary of the investment works and will assure the training of
personnel necessary for this objective.
Article 3 - The indicators of the plan of labor and wages
for the year 1973, for the enterprise of the electric plant at Turceni,
will be provided within the indicators &pproved for the Ministry of
Electrical Energy.  The average approved number of personnel, for the
year 1973, is established at 18.
Article 4 - The wage earning personnel of the electric
plant at Turceni, that reside at distances of more than 5 km. from
work and which, according to legal dispositions in force, do not



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
benefit from free transportation to their place of work and back,
will be able to receive tickets for railroad and bus transportation
for distances of between 5 and 60 kmn., from the cost of which the
employee will pay 30 lei per month and the difference in the total
cost per month is to be paid by the enterprise. The cost of tickets
per month, which is not more than 30 lei is to be paid by the employee.
Employees who reside at distances of 60 to 80 km, will
receive transportation tickets and the cost of these tickets for dis-
tances up to 60 km are to be supported under the conditions above
mentioned, while the differences in cost for distances beyond 60 km.
is to be paid entirely by them.
March 1974



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 10
ROMANIA
MINISTRY OF A ECTRICITY ENERGY
Tariffs
ACTIVE POWER
I. CONSUMERS SUPPLIED WITH LOW VOLTAGE (0.1-1 kV)
A. Single part tariffs for:
1.  Public lighting:
-  including maintenance of installations               0.80 lei/kWh
- excluding maintenance of installations                0.54 lei/kWh
2. General lighting:
a) not differentiated by period of consumption          0.75 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
- consumption during peak evening hours
(between 1800 and 2100 hours)                    1.55 lei/kWh
- consumption during remaining hours
(from 2100 to 1800 hours)                        0.60 lei/kWh
OR
- daytime consumption (between 0600 and
2200 hours)                                      0.85 lei/kWh
- nighttime consumption (between 2200 and
0600 hours)                                      O.50 lei/kWh
3. Businesses:
a)  not differentiated by period of consumption          0.50 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
- consumption during peak evening hours
(between 1800 and 2100 hours)                    1.00 lei/kWh
- consumption during remaining hours
(from 2100 to 1800 hours)                        0.41 lei/kWh
OR



AmlEl 7
Page 2 of 10
- daytime consumption (between 0600 and
2200 hours)                                       0.57 lei/kWh
- nighttime consumption (between 2200 and
0600 hours)                                       0.33 lei/kWh
4. Power users with power demand of less than 50 kW or with connected
plant of less than 50 kVA rating.
a)  not differentiated by period of consumption          0.45 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
- consumption during peak evening hours
(between 1800 and 2100 hours)                     0.90 lei/kWh
- consumption during remaining hours (from
2100 to 1800 hours)                               0.37 lei/kWh
- daytime consumption (between 0600 and
2200 hours)                                       0.52 lei/kWh
- nighttime consumption (between 2200 and
0600 hours)                                       0.30 lei/kWh
5. Users in agriculture, including irrigation:
a) not differentiated by period of consumption
(excluding irrigation)                               0.40 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption::
- consumption during peak evening hours (between
1800 and 2100 hours)                              0.82 lei/kWh
- consumption during remaining hours (from
2100 to 1800 hours)                               0.33 lei/kWh
OR
- daytime consumption (between 0600 and 2200
hours)                                            0.46 lei/kWh
- nighttime consumption (between 2200 and
0600 hours)                                       0.26 lei/kWh
6. Domestic users
- each unit in a first block of 6 kWh per room in
summer and 12 kWh per room in winter              0.50 lei/kWh
-  the balance                                       0.30 lei/kWh
- off-peak water heaters between 2200 and
0600 hours                                        0.20 lei/kWh



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 10
B. Two part tariffs for:
7. Industrial consumers with power demand of more than 50 MW or
with connected plant of more than 50 kVA rating.
Power rate for:
- metered maximum demand                               144o lei/kW p.a.
OR
-  connected plant rating.                             1140 lei/kVA p.a.
Energy rate:
a)  not differentiated by period of consumption        0.17 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
- consumption during peak evening hours
(established by Ministry of Electrical Energy) 0.30 lei/kWh
- consumption during remaining hours               0.15 lei/kWh
OR
- daytime consumption (between 0600 and 2200
hours)                                          0.19 lei/kWh
- nighttime consumption (between 2200 and
0600 hours)                                     0.13 lei/kWh
NOTE: The two part rates given in Section 1.7 may also be applied to the
consumers indicated in Sections 1.2 to Io5, under the conditions to
be established by regulation for the supply and use of electric power,
in all cases in which this can ensure minimum consumption of electric
power with a minimum of power absorbed during peak hours.
II. CONSUMERS SUPPLIED WITH MEDIUM VOLTAGE (1-110 kV)
1. Urban and interurban electric traction:
A. Sinale part tariff
a) not differentiated by period of consumption        0.30 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
- consumption during peak evening hours
(between 1800 and 2100 hours)                  0.40 lei/kWh
- consumption during remaining hours (from
2100 to 1800 hours)                            0.28 lei/kWh



AN=BX 7
Page 4 of 10
2. Users in agriculture, excluding irrigation
A.  Single part tariff
a) not differentiated by period of consumption          0.34 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
- consumption during peak evening hours
(between 1800 and 2100 hours)                   0.57 lei/kWh
- consumption daring remaining hours
(from 2100 to 1800 hours)                       0.31 lei/kWh
B. Two part tariff
Power rate for:
- metered maximum demand                               1260 lei/kW p.a.
OR
- connected plant rating                               1008 lei/kVA p.a.
Energy rate:
a)  not differentiated by period of consumption        0.14 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
- consumption during peak evening hours
(established by order of Mini;stry of
Electrical EwvrU)                               0.27 lei/kWh
- consumption during remaining hours               0.12 lei/kWh
3. Other consumers
A. Single part tariff
a) not differentiated by period of consumption
(excluding irrigation)                             0.36 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
- consumption during peak evening hours (es-
tablished by order of Ministry of Electrical
Energy)                                         o.60 lei/kWh
- consumption during remaining hours               0.33 lei/kWh
OR



ANNEI 7
Page 5 Of 10
- consumption during peak evening hours (es-
tablished by order of Ministry of Electrical
Fnergy)                                         0.60 lei/kWh
-  daytime consumption                             0.42 lei/kWh
- nighttime consumption                            0.20 lei/kWh
B.  Two part tariff
Power rates:
- Based on metered maximum demand:
a)  not differentiated by period of consumption        1152 lei/kW p.a.
b)  differentiated by period of consumption:
- for maximum power absorbed during evening
peak hours                                      1176 lei/kW p.a.
- for maximum power absorbed outside evening
peak hours in excess of power absorbed
during evening peak hours                        588 lei/kW p.a.
OR
-  on basis of connected plant rating.              972 lei/kVA p.a.
Daergy rates:
a) not differentiated by period of consumption
(excluding irrigation)                             0.17 lei/kWh
b)  differentiated by period of consumption:
- consumption during peak evening hours (es-
tablished by order of Ministry of Electrical
Energy)                                         0.30 lei/kWh
-  consumption during remaining hours              0.15 lei/kWh
OR
- consumption during peak evening hours (es-
tablished by order of Ministry of Electrical
Energy)                                         0.30 lei/kWh
-  daytime consumption                             0.18 lei/kWh
- nighttime consumption                            0.11 lei/kWh



AIMIX 7
Page 6 of 10
NOWE:  1.  A two part tariff is generally applied to major consumers.
2. The rates for medium voltage and for supply at a voltage of
0.5-1 kV are applied to-petroleum drilling and extraction.
3. The single part tariff (II 3 A) will be applied to the consumers
indicated in Section II 3 having several meter points and to
those having electric power plants of their own at which the
maximum absorbed power cannot be totalled simultaneously.
III. CONSUMERS SUPPLIED WITH HIGH VOLTAGE (110 kV and higher)
1. Railroad electric traction
A. Single part tariff
a)  not differentiated by period of consumption        0.26 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
- daytime consumption (between 0600 and
2200 hours)                                    0.30 lei/kWh
- nighttime consumption (between 2200 and
0600 hours)                                    0.19 lei/kWh
2. Other consumers
A. Single part tariff
a) not differentiated by period of consumption
(excluding irrigation)                            0.26 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
- consumption during peak evening hours (es-
tablished by order of Ministry of Electrical
Energy)                                         0..42 lei/kWh
- consumption during remaining hours              0.25 lei/kWh
OR
-  consumption during peak evening hours (es-
tablished by Ministry of Electrical hergy)    0.42 lei/kWh
- daytime consumption                             0.31 lei/kWh
- nighttime consumption                           0.15 lei/kWh
B. Two part tariffs
Rates for metered maxiamu demand.



ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 10
a)  not differentiated by peridd of consumption         696 lei/kW p.a.
b) differentiated by period of consumption
- for maximum power absorbed during evening
peak hours                                       706 lei/kW p.a.
- for maximum power absorbed outside evening
peak hours in excess of power absorbed during
evening peak hours                               384 lei/kW p.a.
OR
-  rate for connected plant rating                  600 lei/kVA p.a.
Rates for energy.
a) not differentiated by period of consumption
(excluding irrigation)                             0.17 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
- consumption during peak evening hours (es-
tablished by order of Ministry of Electrical
Energy)                                         0.30 lei/kWh
-  consumption during remaining hours              0.15 lei/kWh
OR
- consumption during peak evening hours (esta-
blished by order of Ministry of Electrical
Energy)                                         0.30 lei/kWh
-  daytime consumption                             0.18 lei/kWh
- nighttime consumption                            0.11 lei/kgh
NOTE: 1. A two part tariff is generally applied to major consumers.
2. The single part tariff (III 2 A b) will be applied to the consumers
indicated in Section III 2 having several meter points and to those
having electric power plants of their own at which the maximum
absofbed power cannot be totalled simultaneously.
IV. RATES FOR PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY OF EXPORTED ELECTRIC POWER
Single rate
-  consumption during peak evening hours                   0.45 lei/kWh
-  daytime consumption                                     0.27 lei/kWh
- nighttime consumption                                    0.17 lei/kWh



ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 10
WATTLESS POWER
Single rates for:
1.  Consumers supplied with low voltage                  0.046 lei/kVARh
2.  Consumers supplied Nith medium voltage               0.036 lei/kVAxh
3.  Consumers supplied with high voltage                 0.026 lei/kVARh
NOTE: Wattless power is invoiced only if the average monthly power factor is
lower than 0.92.
RATES FOR PRODUCTICN AND SUPPLY OF ELECTRIC POWER SUPPLIED IN THE NATIONAL
POWER GRID BY CONSUMERS HAVING ELFCTRIC POWER PLANTS OF THEIR OWN
ACTIVE POWER
Single rate:
a) differentiated by period of consumption:
Power supplied during peak evening hours (es-
tablished by order of Ministry of Electrical Enrgy)0.35 lei/kWh
Power supplied during remaining hours                0.23 lei/kWh
b) not differentiated by period of consumption.          0.25 lei/kWh
NOTE: If the average annual planned cost price is higher than 0.25 lei/kWh,
the average rate for delivery will equal the planned cost price in the
respective year plus a profit of 3%, and the rates of 0.35 and 0.23 lei/
kWh will be increased in proportion to the ratio of the average rate
for supply and 0.25 lei.
WATTLESS POWER
Single rate:
1.   Wattless electric power supplied to the requirement of
the dispatcher without special starting of a generating
set or a synchronous compensator                        0.02 lei/kVARh
2.  Wattless electric power supplied to the requirment
of the dispatcher when special starting of a generating
set or a synchronous compensator is necessary.          0.06 lei/kVARh



ANNEX 7
Page 9 of 10
INCREASES AND REDUCTIONS IN RATES
1.        Reductions in rates for metered maximum demand or connected plant
rating are applied. as follows to seasonal consumers not participating in the
annual power grid peak:
Basic period of operation                Reduction, in %
May 1 to September 30                           30
April 1 to September 30                          25
March 1 to October 31 *                          15
2.        Certain industrial consumers who are able to reduce their demand
during periods of system peak may earn reductions in their tariffs according
to their performance in this respect. (Scales not supplied)
3.        If the established normal maximum demand is exceeded during the
peak evening hours, the following power rate increases will be applied to
major industrial consumers:
Increase in % for power exceeded
For single ex-    For repeated ex-
cess per month    cesses in same
month
A. Consumers contracting for power
under 1000 kW:
-- power exceeded up to 10%                      50                 100
-- power exceeded 10-20%                        100                 150
-- power exceeded m.ore than 20%                150                 200
B.  Consumers contracting for power over
1000 kW:
-- power exceeded up to 5%                       50                 100
-- power exceeded 5-N0%                         100                 200
-- power exceeded 10-20%                        150                 250
-- power exceeded more than 20%                 200                 300
Power excesses of less than 20 kW are exempt from application of
the rate increases.
4.        For electric power supplied to a major industrial consumer for a
period longer than 30 consecutive minutes, a.t a voltage or a frequency outside
the contract limits, the supplier will grant a rate reduction of 12.5% to
25%, under the conditions specified in the regulations governing the supply
and utilization of electric power.



AMNNE 7
Page 10 of 10
OTHER PROVISIONS
1.        Consumers will be placed in the tariff system (low-medium-high
voltage; single part-two part; metered maximum demand-connected plant
rating; not differentiated-differentiated by period of consumption; etc.)
in accordance with the regulations governing the supply and utilization
of electric power, effort being made to achieve minimum consumption of
electric energy, with a minimum peak demand.
2.        If consumers request electric power supply installations
supplementary to those specified by laws and regulations in force,
such consumers will pay the supplier annually 15% of the respective
fixed assets for the operation of these installations.
3.        The fixed rates specified in this Appendix also constitute
the rate limits.
April 1974



ROMANIA
TURCENI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
ELECTRIC POWER SECTOR
Planting History & Forecast
Rated     Cumulative Ther-   Cumulative        Cumulative    Interconnected                            Firm       Maximum
Type                        Capacity        mal Total         Hydro Total   System Total         Plant          Security Margin   Capacity    Demand
Year         Installed Plant        H/T      Date Commissioned      MW              MW                 MW             mM               MW                   %               lW          MW
1950                              Thermal                                            680
Hydro                                                                60             740
1955          Doicegti            Thermal        52-55             120
Ovidiu                            52-53              36
Baia Mare                         52-55               8.4
Fintinele                         54-55              75
Comaneqti                            54              24
Other                 "                             176.6           1,190
Sadu V             Hydro             55              15.5
Moroieni                             53              15
Other                 "                               9.5                               100          1,220
1960           Baia Mare          Thermal           57               1.8
Fintinele                         56-58              75
Borzesti                        56 & 57 & 60        100
Parogeni                        56, 57 & 59         150
Grozaue3ti                           59              25
Other                                                97.2           1,569
Bicaz              Hydro             60             110
Other                                 -               -                                 210           1,779           1,469                  15             1,249       1,180
1965           Borzegti           Thermal        61,62              75
Parogeni                             64             150
Grozavepti                      64 & 65             100
Brazi                 "              61             200
Ludus-Iernut          "         63 & 64             300
Craidva-Isalnita                     65             200
Bukureqti-Sud                        65              50
Other (- 12 Diesel)
Net                                               153             2,797
Sadu V             Hydro             64              11.8
Bicaz                                62             100
Roznon I                             63              14
Roznon II             "              63              15
P. Neamt                             64              11
Pingarati                            64              23
Zanesti                              64              14
Costiga                              64              14
Buhusi                               64              11
Racova                "              65              23                                           
Girleni                              65              23
Other (Derated/                                                                                                                                                                      H
Retired)                                          - 8.8                               461           3,258           2,994                  15             2,545       2,604        0



ROMN4IA
TURCERT THERMAL POWER PROJECT
ELECTRIC POWER SECTOR
Planting History & Forecast/
Rated     Cumulative Ther-    Cumulative        Cumulative      Interconnected                            Firm       Maximum
Type                          Capacity       mal Total          Hydro Total    System Total           Plant         Security Margin    Capacity       Demand
Year       Installed Plant        H/T       Date Commissioned       MW             MW                  MW               MW               MW           _       fi              MW          MW
1970          Fintinele         Thermal              66             100
Borzesti             "           66 & 69             480
Grozavesti                            64              50
Ludus-Iernut                     66 & 67             500
Craiova-Isalnita     T       66, 67 & 68             780
Bucuresti-Sud        "       66, 67 & 68             358
Oradea                           66 & 67             105
Iasi                                  66              50
Devamintia                       69 & 70             630
Galati                                69             160
Govora               "                 70            100
Palas                "                70              50
Other (-31 Diesel)
Net                                               -i14            6,146
Vaduri             Hydro               66             w
Bacau I              "                 66             23
Bacau II                              66              30
Gh Dej Argeg                          66             220
Oieqti               "                67              15
Abeqti               "                 67             15
Cerbureni                             68              15
Valea Iasului        "                 69             15
Portile Defier                         70            350
Other                                                 12                               1,200           7,346             7,106               20               5,685        5,641
1971          Deukmintia        Thermal              71             210
Palas                                  71             50
Other- (+28
Diesel) Ret                                         23            6,429
Portile Defier   Htydro                71            70
Paltinu              "                 71             10
Other (Derated/
Retired)                                           - 5                               1,905           8,334             8,o58               20               6,446        6,342
1972          Brazi             Thermal              72             400
Rovinari                               72            400
Other (Derated/
Retired)           "                                28            7,257
Lotru              Hydro               72            170
Other                                  72             25                               2,100           9,357             9,100                20               7,280       7,003
D   op
i/ Data for 1973 and 1971+ not provided.



ROMANTA
TURCENI THERMAL POWER PROJE1CT
ELECTRIC POWER SECTOR
Plant History & Forecast
Rated     Cumulative Ther-    Cumulative        Cumulative      Interconnected                           Firm      Maximum
Type                         Capacity       mal Total         Hydro Total      System Total          Plant         Security Margin    Capacity    Demand
Year      Installed Plant        H/T      Date Commissioned      M              W                   MW               MW                MW                  %               MW         MW
1975         Various          Thermal          73 - 75          2.590           9,847
Various          Hydro            73 - 75            833                             2,933            12,780           12,600               18            10,332        9,917
1976         Various          Thermal               76            979          10,826
Various          Hydro                 76             M             ,                2,994            13,820           13,700               18            11,234       11,077
1977         Turceni No. 1    Thermal         Sept. 77             330
Various                                77            LE           11,993
Various          Hydro                 77             73                             3,067            15,060           15,000               17            12,450       11,960
1978         Turceni No. 2
& No. 3        Thermal   March & Sept.             660
Other (Retire-
ments)                               78          -4             12,359
Various          Hydro                 78            484                              3,551           15,910           15,900               16             13,356      12,880
1979         Turceni No. 4    Thermal               79             330
Other               "                                11           12,802
Various          Hydro                 79                                             4,248           17,050           17,050               15            14,493       13,855
1980         Various           Thermal              80             645         13,447
Various          Hydro                 80            685                              4,933           18,380           18,380               15             15,623      14,900
March 1974
0i
W m






ROMANIA
ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEM CAPABILITY
AND MAXIMUM DEMAND
(Semi-log scale)
x 10
100              -                       ___________-_ Tolpnisaei   mi
90
so
70
60
40
- @  -Total plant Installed in Romania
30 
.    4....- 0-- Total plant on interconnected system
M       Maximum demand interconnected system
20                                           , . _    _V . Firm plant interconnected system
20
10
9
8
7 
6
4
LOAD SHEDDING WAS NEEDED
1955                              1910 1965                                                             1970                               1975                                1980
YEAR
Note: Where no plot is shown data are not available.                                                                                                                 World Bank-8467
March 1974



ROMANIA
TURCENI THERNAL POWER PROJECT
Project Cost EstimateY/
In Millions of lei                US$ million equivalent
Local     Foreign      Total        Local      Foreign      Total
Thermal Pbwer Station
Civil Works                                  1,259          8       1,267          63.0         0.4       63.4
Boilers                                        773        534       1,307          38.6        26.7       65.3
Turbo-Generators                               853        596       1,449          42.7        29.8       72.5
Miscellaneous M1ehanical                       143          8         151           7.2         0.4        7.6
Miscellaneous Electrical                       281          30        311          14.0         1.5       15.5
Automation                                      59         62         121           2.9         3.1        6.0
Fuel Handling                                  252          9         261          12.6         0.5       13.1
Water Treatment                                 40                     140          2*0           -        2.0
Ash Disposal                                    13          8          21           0.7         0.4        1.1
Commissioning & Supervision                     50          _          50           2.5           -        2.5
Training                                        57           -         57           2.8                    2.8
Engineering                                     48           -          48          2.4            _       2.4
Sub-total                                   3,828      1,255       5,083         191.4        62.8      254.2
Contingencies: 
(i) Physical                                   260          _         260          13.0            -      13.0
(ii) Price                                       -        524         524             _        26.2       26.2
Total Cost of Thermal Power Plant           O4,88       1,779       5,867         204.4         89.0     293.4
Transmission Lines & Associated Works
Transmission Lines                             91           -         911         345.6                   456
Switching Station                               82          4          86           4.1         0.2
Construction Rail Link                         124           -        124           6.2                    6.2
Agricultural Compensation                       30           -         30           1.5            _       1.5
Sub-total                                   1,1347         4       1,151          57.4         0.2       57.6
Contingencies:
(i) Physical                                   48           -          48          2.4            _        2.4
(ii) Price                                       -          2           2             -         0.1        041
Total Cost of Transmission Lie  and                                  ,215.                       03       6.
Associated Works                            1,195           6      1w201          59-8          0-3      60.1
Total Cost of Project                       5,283        1,785      7,0(4         264.2        89.3      353-5         1
1/ Based on prices at the end of 1973          -           -                        -       -            - -
May 1, 1974



ANNE ll
Page 1 of 2
RCKANIA
TuREUI THEKAL POWER PROECT
Schedule of Eguioment and Materials Suitable for
International Competetive Bidding Under
IBRD Guidelines for Procurement
US$ NOllions
Value
CATEGORY I
Thermal Power Station Components and Equipment                    22
1. Automation equipment
2. High pressure piping and appliances
3. Pumps for ash and slag handling
4. Diesel generating sets
5. Fuel handling equipment
6. Miscellaneous electrical equipment
7. Communication equipment
8. Iron exchange mass for water treatment
9. Boiler insulating materials
10.  Corrosion and refractory materials for stacks
CATEGORY II
Supplies for Manufacture of Thermal Pbwer Station Equipment       28
11. Water housing etc.
12. Expansion joints
13. Miscellaneous fittings
14. Plate and arch disks
15.  Electric equipment and actuators
16. Measuring and control devices
17. Vacuum pumps
18. Law pressure by-pass
19.  Hydraulic couplings
20.  Static excitation equipment
21.  Valves, condensing vessels etc.
22. Non magnetic steel
23. Special steel plates and pipes
24. Welding electrodes and sire
25. Pickling and welding fluxes
26. Silver solder
27. Springs
28. Valves
29. Hydraulic couplings
30. Hangers - constant support



ANEX U
Page 2 of 2
US$ Millions
Value
Supplies for Manufacture of The-r-al Power Station ESuipment
(C ont d)
31. Air preheater hydraulic controls
32. Coal transport equipment
33. Coal crusher parts
34. Components for air system
35. Various gear boxes
36. Insulating materials
37. Miscellaneous nozzles and rivets
38. Air preheater rotor handling devices
39. Carbon, alloy and SS pipes
40. Alloy and SS plate
41. Rolled sections
42. Erection Cranes and Equipment
Total                 0
March 1974



ARM  12
ROMANIA
TURCENI THEI'AL POWER PRDJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                           Cumulative
and Quarter                    Disbursements at End of Quarter
(US$ Million)
1975
September 30, 1974                            2.1
December 31, 1974                             7.0
March 31, 1975                               13.0
June 30, 1975
1976
September 30, 1975                          129.7
December 31, 1975                            27.6
March 31, 1976                               327.
June 30, 1976                                32.4
1977
September 30, 1976                           37.1
December 31, 1976                            4o.7
March 31, 1977                               W.0
June 30, 1977                                 47.6
1978
September 30, 1977                           50.9
December 31, 1977                            54.1
March 31, 1978                               56.5
June 30, 1978                                58.8
1979
September 30, 1978                           60.0
May 1974






AN= 13
Page I of 3
ROMANIA
TURCENI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Comparison of Alternatives
1.         Within the context of a thermal plant, the economic alternative
to burning lignite is to use fuel oil derived from imported crude oil.
Natural gas supplies (at the present level of known reserves) are already
fully committed to uses yielding higher value added than that obtained by
burning gas for power generationl1. Increased use of gas in the thermal
power sector, therefore, would require the substitution of crude oil deri-
vitatives for gas in some other activities. Since the country is a net
importer of crude oil it follows that the economic cost of using gas is the
cost of the corresponding increment of imported oil.
2.         In terms of thermal alternatives, therefore, a least cost comparison
was made between the lignite burning plant and a plant using fuel oil derived
from imported crude. The comparison shows that at a price of fuel at $8.00
a barrel ($65.4O a ton including $7.00 transport costs) the lignite alternative
represents the least cost alternative at discount rates up to 25.9%. Thus,
the significantly lower capital costs in the case of a fuel oil plant (70%
less than in the lignite alternative) are much more than offset by the higher
cost of oil as a fuel.
3.         The data entering into this comparison are shown below.  The cost
stream for the lignite alternative is the base case stream which is fully
described in the following section of the report which deals with the economic
rate of return. For the oil alternative the capital costs (which include
imported items whose price has been converted at lei 20 = US$1.00) are shown
in Table 1. The calculation of fuel oil costs is as follows: The price of
imported fuel oil was assumed to be US$ 8.00 per barrel throughout the project
life. Using a factor of 7.3 to convert from barrels to tons and a figure of
US$ 7.00 per ton transport costs (figures supplied by the Romanians) this gave
a price per ton of $65.4LQ/. At a specific consumption rate of 0.235 kg/kAh
it would require 1,950 thousand tons of fuel oil per year to generate the same
useful energy as the lignite plant thus giving a total annual fuel oil bill of
US$ 127.53 million, or lei 2,550.6 million. The total cost streams are shown
in Table 2 below. The equalizing discount rate was found by calling the cost
stream of the oil alternative the benefits to the lignite alternative (in terms
of costs avoided), in a standard rate of return calculation.
1/ This issue has been fully explored in the appraisal of the Tecuci
fertilizer plan.
2/ In the light of the instability in oil prices reigning at the time the
project was appraised, this figure is not intended to be a forecast but
rather a hypothetical value used purely for comparative purposes lying
within a likely range of values.



A3X 13
Page 2 of 3
-   Table 1: CAPITAL COSTS ON THE FUEL OIL ALTERNATIVE
(lei millions)
Power                   400-kV
Equipment    Housing       Lines      Switchyards       Total
1973          67.5         20.0                         -           87.5
1974         230.2         20.0           -             -          250.2
1975       1,108.1            -       247.5             -        1,345.6
19,6       1,300.7            -       237.5             -        1,538.2
1977       1,400.5            -       237.5          45.0        1,683.0
1978         217.0            -       237.5          45.0          499.5
1979         100.0            -           -             -          100.0
4,424.o        40.0        950.0         90.0         5,504.0
Table 2: COST STREAMS IN THE FUEL OIL ALTERNATIVE
(lei millions)
Capital       Fuel         Other          Total
1973           88             -            -             88
19714         250             -            -            250
1975        19346             -            -          1,346
1976        1,538             -            -          1,538
1977        1,683           158            -          1,841
1978          500         1,276           65          1,841
1979          100         2,073          106          2,279
1980-2005       -         2,551          130          2,681
Exchanga rate:   lei 20 =US$ 1.00
Equalizing discount rate 25.93%
Fuel oil price $8.00 bbl.
4.         Celculations were also made to show, at varying discount rates,
what would be the price of imported fuel oil which would equalize the
present value of the cost streams in each alternative. The cost streams
used were those described above. The present values calculated at different
discount rates and oil prices are given in the following table.



ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 3
Table 3: PRESENT VALUES OF THE LIGNITE AND IMPORTED OIL ALTERNATIVES
AT ALTERNATIVE DISCOUNT RATES AND OIL PRICES
I  (lei millions)
Discount Rate               6%           8%              10%           12%
Lignite                 19,103.8      16,108.1       13,864.5       12,138.4
Oil ($3.00 bbl)          17,358.8     14,021.1        11,614.9       9,830.3
Oil ($5.00 bbl)         23.,140.3     l8,407.4       15,018.4       12,523.9
Oil ($8.00 bbl)         31,829.6      25,000.0        20,133.9      16,572.7
Oil ($10.00 bbl)        37,611.9      29,386.9        23,537.9      19,266.8
Equalizing Oil Price:
Abbl              $3.68         $4.07          $4.30          $5.10
/ton a/           $33.86       $36.71         $38.39         $44.23
a/ Including transport costs to Romanian border at $7.00 per ton.
5.        It is clear, from the range of values shown, that the equalizing
price of oil is significantly lower than the actual world price of fuel as
of January 1, 1974 ( i.e. about $8.00 bbl) even at the upper end of the
range of discount rates. Given that the social cost of capital in Romania
seems more likely to lie in the range 8-10% than in ranges above 12%,1  it
follows that the ltbest" estimate of the equalizing price would lie in the
range $4.00-$4.30 bbl, i.e. about half the actual price reigning in early
1974.
6.        These calculations suggest that the lignite plant is unequivocally
the least cost thermal alternative.
1/ Notions of the social cost of capital may be even more conjectural in the
case of Romania than generally, since conventional capital markets do not
exist and interest rates bear no relation to capital costs. A general
argument can be made, however, that the very high investment rates (often
in excess of 30% of national income) would tend to imply capital abundance
relative to the situation found in most LDC's, hence implying a generally
lower social discount rate.
March 1974






AS= 14
Page 1 of 10
ROMANIA
TURCENI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The economic rate of return on the Project is the discount rate
which equalizes the present values of the time streams of costs and bene-
fits over the life of the Project. For this purpose, a period of 33 years
was adopted, consisting of 25 years of full Project operating life and 8
years of construction. The benefits to the economy from the Project are
measured as the sales of energy to the power grid. The costs comprise
the following items:
A. Mining Component
(a) Capital costs.
(b) Operating costs, including rail haulage of lignite from
mines to generating station.
B. Power Component
(a) Capital costs for equipment and erection.
(b) Construction of 400-kV tranamission lines and switching station.
(c)  Operating costs, including maintenance of 400-kV lines.
(d) Construction of housing and social amenities for staff.
(e) Rail access for construction, and site clearance.
2.        The detailed figures for the calculation of the economic rate of
return, in the case of the basic assumptions, are displayed in Table 1l
The derivation of these figures is described in the following paragraphs.
The general approach in the economic analysis has been to price the non-
traded components, including the output, at domestic prices, converting the
imported components at a shadow exchange rate of lei 20 - US$1.00 and
applying a middle estimate shadow wage of 50% of actual wages.
Project Benefits
3.        The energy produced by the Project will be fed to the national
grid thus making it difficult to identify individual categories of consumers
benefiting from it. Consequently the benefit stream was found by applying
an average sale price of energy (gross of taxes) to the units to be supplied
by the Project, The quantities chosen were the following:



ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 10
Price: 314 lei  -  The calculated average retail selling price of
electrical energy to all categcries of consumers
in 1972. This post-calculated price thus reflects
the 1972 structure of energy consumption as applied
to the catalogue of fixed electricity tariffs
(see Annex 7).
Units Supplied:    6,882 GWh p.a.  This figure is derived as follows:
Total Energy Generated           8,580 Gwh
Loss Factor (x 1/1.20)           1.430 Gwh
7,150 GWh
Eergy Used in Mining Component   268 GWh
Net Units Supplied               6 882 GWh
Full Year Benefit: 314 x 6,882  - lei 2.161 million
4.        Benefits in the years 1977-79 are pro-rated according to the time-
table of comUissioning dates for each unit, These are as follows:
1st Units    September 1977
2nd Unit:    March 1978
3rd Unit:   September 1978
4th Unit:   March 1979.
5.        For the following reasons, it is considered reasonable that the
benefits quantified in this way do not fully state the net benefits accruing
to the econcoy.
(a)  The catalogue of electricity tariffs has remained unchanged since 1963.
Since then the structure of consumption has changed significantly with
low-tariff users (particularly industrial and other productive
users who accounted for about 60% of total consumption in 1973)
growing in weight. This has led to a decline in the post-calculated
average sale price which thus tends to understate the full benefits
accruing to the population. It is considered that a tariff in-
crease for productive users sufficient to raise the post-calculated
average sale price by, say, 10% would more adequately reflect the full
benefits and would not, given the obligation to fulfill plan targets,
significantly reduce the industrial demand for energy.
(b)  The benefits as considered take no account of possible second-order
effects such as the expansion of employment and urbanization whose
social benefit is not necessarily reflected in the price of electricity.



ANNEX 14
Page 3 Of 10
(c)  Some small (possibly n4gligible) amount of direct revenue may
accrue to the Project from the sale of ash, heat and other
auxiliary products and services. These have been left out of
account.
(d) Were the value of the energy supplied priced in terms of a border
price then (taking the average export price of Romanian energy,
imputed at 363 lei as against 314 lei for domestic sales) this
would raise the economic benefits by some 15%.
Project Costs: The Mining Component
6.        Capital Costs
There are four categories of capital costs involved in the development
of lignite resources for Turceni, namely:
(a)  the costs of developing the Jilt and Matasari mines;
(b) the costs of developing replacement mines when Jilt and Matasari
expire in 1990;
(c) the interim development of additional mines to supplement the
Jilt-Matasari supply shortfall; and
(d) capital replacement costs.
These replacement costs are estimated at lei 400 million in each of the years
1984 and 1994. The development of the supplementary mines (i.e. (c) above) can
be ignored since their terminal value in 1981 cancels their cost. The capital
cost stream reflecting the other items (as well as the terminal values in 2005)
is shown in Table 2.
7.        Operating Costs
The costing for labor, materials, and other operating costs was based
on the explanations and data contained in the mining consultant's report
(Annex 2). Labor was shadow priced, as discussed below. (See Appendix 1 to
this Annex). The Project return is sensitive to the use of shadow wages
(see Table 4) largely because labor costs are a significant proportion of total
costs in the mining component.
The Power Component
8.        Capital and Associated Costs
Table 3 shows the breakdown of the costs of equipment, installations,
housing, rail access and other associated capital expenditures covering each of the
years 1973-79. Note:



ANNEX 14
Page 4 of 10
(a) The total financial cost of the housing (1,000 apartments at
80,000 lei each) is given as lei 80 million. Only half this
amount is charged as an economic cost to the Project because
about half the apartments will be used (during the operation
phase) by the local Turceni community, whose judet financed
the residential construction.
(b) The rail link included in these estimates is not that between
the power station and the mines discussed above (for Jilt/Matasari)
but that between Turceni and the existing main rail link which
will, among other things, enable lignite to be brought in from
other mines. This line was originally constructed to carry in the
equipment for construction of the Project. In time the line will
also be used for other non-project traffic.
9.        Operating Costs
The operating costs of the power component consist of labor costs,
materials and some fuel (i.e. the fuel oil for overfiring the burners) and
other maintenance costs. The following notes are recorded on these costs:
(a) The major fuel component -- lignite -- is omitted since the cost
of lignite is accounted for by the resource costs entered under
the mining component. (The latter includes the cost of transporting
the lignite from the mines to the power station).
(b) As in the mining component, labor is shadow priced, on the basis of
the considerations discussed in Appendix 1.
(c) Among the other operating costs which include repairs and mainte-
nance, slag and ash discharge, etc., is the cost of maintaining
the 400-kV transmission lines. The latter is imputed as 2% p.a.
of the total capital cost of the lines, i.e. lei 19 million each
year.
Sunmary of Assumptions in the Base Case
10.       To make the calculation of the base economic rate of return the
following assumptions are made:
(a)  Selling price of energy lei 314 GWh.
(b)  Units sold 6,882 GEM.
(c) Labor is priced at a shadow wage.
(d) Conversion rate 20 lei = $1.00 (the assumed shadow rate of exchange).
Economic Rate of Return
II.       On the assumptions described above, the comparison of costs and
benefits over the life of the Project results in an economic rate of return
of 8.6% in the base case. As described above, this rate probably understates
the total economic return to a significant degree. The rate of 8.6% seems



Page 5 f 10
acceptable for this sector, in the Romanian oontext, bearing in mind the
structure of tariffs, the absence of inflation, and the probabilities of
a relatively low social cost of capitel. Calculating the rate of return
using the border price for energy sales gives a rate of 11.5%.
Sensitivity Analysis
12.       The sensitivity of the base rate of return was tested by varying
the values of the main cost and benefit factors from those in the base case.
The results of these tests are given in Table 4 of this Annex. Except in the
case of an assumed 10% increase in the selling price of energy, the rate of
return is relatively insensitive to changes in the value of anw single factor,
such changes bringing no more than a 1.0% change in the rate of return.
When changes in several factors are combined, however, with less favorable
(and conversely, more favorable) conditions assumed to coincide the return
shows a variation from a low of 6.3% to a high of 10.5%.



ANNE: 14
Page 6 ofb 10
Table 1:  ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN -- THE LIGNITE CASE
(M4illion lei)
COSTS
Mining Component                                                      Poawer Component
Total                                         Total      Total        Total
Capital      Labor     Materials       Rail Freight      Other      Mining       Capital      Labor      Other      Power      Costs      Benefits
1973         46           1             2             -                 5          54         153          -          -          153       207          -
1974         170          4             7             -                21        202          322          -          -          322       524          -
1975         615         15            30             -                87         747       1206                      - -       1206      1953          -
1976         722         44            83             -              216        1065         1590          -          -         1590      2655          -
1977         309         56           110             -               215         690        1965          -          -         1965      2655          134
1978         744         56           110             1              215        1126        1632           6          17        1655      2781        1081
1979        405         56            110            25              215         811          230         12         141         383      1194        1756
1980        680          56           110            66              215        1127            5         18         228         251      1378        2161
1981         227         56           110            86              215         694            5         23         281         309      1003         2161
1982         223         56           110            86              215          690         -           23         281         304       994         2161
1983          52         56           110            86              215         519          -           23         281         304       823         2161
1984        400          56           110            86              215         867          -           23         281         304      1171         2161
1985          -         56            110            86              215         467          -           23         281         304       771         2161
1986          -          56           110            86              215         467          -           23         299         322       789         2161
1987          -          56           110            86              215         467          -           23         299         322       789         2161
1988          -          56           110            86              215         467          -           23         299         322       789         2161
1989         853         56           110            86              215        1320          -           23         299         322      1642         2161
1990        1705         56           110           108              215        2194          -           23         299         322      2516         2161
1991        853         56            110           108              215        1342          -           23         316         339      1681         2161
1992          -          56           110           108              215         489          -           23         316         339       828         2161
1993          -          56           110           108              215         489          -           23         316         339       828         2161
1994        400          56           110           108               215         889         -           23         316         339      1228         2161
1995          -          56           110           108              215         489          -           23         316         339       828         2161
1996          -         56            110           108              215         489          -           23         334         357       846         2161
1997          -          56           110           108              215         489          -           23         334         357       846         2161
1998          -          56           110           108              215         489          -           23         334         357       846         2161
1999          -          56           110           108              215         489          -           23         334         357       846         2161
2000          -          56           110           108               215        489          -           23         334         357       846         2161
2001          -          56           110           108              215         489          -           23         351         374       863         2161
2002          -          56           110           108              215         489          -           23         351         374       863         2161
2003          -          56           110           108              215         489          -           23         351         374       863         2161
2004          -          56           110           108              215         489          -           23         351         374       863         2161
2005       -800          56           110           108               215       -311          -           23         351         374        63         2161
Rate of Return = 8.65%
lei 20 = US$1.00



ANNEX A1
Page 7 of 10
Table 2: CAPITAL COST §TREM IN THE MINING C0MPONENT
Total       Of Which Foreign
Jilt/MatAsari
1973                                    46
1974~                                  170 
1975                                   615                8
1976                                   722                6
1977                                   309                2
1978                                   7144              18
1979                                   40O5               -
1980                                   690               18
1981                                   227                6
1982                                   223                5
1983                                    5-
Total Jlt/matanar:L              4,203               63
Capital Rtp1acement
1984                                   400
Replacement Mines
19897                                  853               13
1990                                1,705                26
1991                                   85                 3
Replacement  inea Total          3,411                52
Capital Poplaoent
1994                                   400               _
TOTAL                            8,114               115
Less:  Tezminal Values (200$)               800                -
Investment Cost to the Project            7,614              115



ANNIX 14
Page 8 of 10
Table 3:  CAPITAL COST STFM IN THE POWER COMPONENT
(J.ei mi:llions )
Power    Agricultural              Rail   )400-kV    Switch-
lilllt   Cp       tion Housg   Ln           Lines    yar        To
1973       67.5             -       20.0    65.0                          152e5
1974      237.2            -        20.0     65.0                         322-.2
1975      968.1            -           _         _   237.5              1,205.6
1976   1,347.7           5.0           -         _    237.5             1,590.2
1977    1,678.2          5.0           -        _    237.5    45.0   1,965.7
1978   1,344.2           5,0           _         _    237.5     16.0    1,632.7
1979      224.5          5.0                     -                        229.5
1980          -          5.0           -        _                           5.0
1981          -          5.0           -         -               _          5e°
TOTAL     5      ,      3040        40.0    130.0 950              0    7,108.4
Table 4:  moNomEC RATE OF RETURN - SlSITIlIfTY AALYSIS
Exchange Fate: lei 20 = US$1.00
Base Case  /              8.65
Nore Favor-able AssumPtions
(a)  Sales increase by 5%                   9.29
(b) Mine operating costs less by 5%         8.83
(c)  Selling price 10% higher              10.35
(d)  Combination of (b) and (c)            10.51
Less Favorable AssumPtions
(a)  Capital costs 10% highe)               7.59
(b) Mine operating costs 10% higher         8.13
(c)  Sales 5% lower                         8.03
(d)  Combination of (a)-(c)                 6.37
1/ Calculating the base retumn at actual rather than shadow wages gives a
return of 7.8%.



ANNEX 14
Page 9 of 10
APPEDDIX 1
Labor Costs
1.        The structure of the labor force to be employed in the operating
phase, the structure of wage earnings and the total wage bill are as follows:
---lei ------       --- 000 lei -
Labor Category        Number      Monthly Salary      Annual Wage Bill
Engineers                     46            3,300                1,822
Technicians and Foremen      115            2,650                3,657
Skilled Labor              1,317            2,000               31,608
Unskilled labor               59            1,250                  88
Total                  1,537           (2,058)*
* Weighted average.
2.        The direct wage payments to labor may,to some extent,understate
and to some extent overstate the real economic cost of labor to the Project.
On the one hand, the opportunity cost of the labor employed in the Project
in terms of alternative activities foregone, may be significantly less than
their salaries earned in the Project. At least this seems likely in the
case of the skilled and unskilled workers (i.e. nearly 90% of the total)
most of whom have been recruited and trained specifically for the Project.
Since all labor is employed in Romania, for the recruitment of these workers
the ultimate activity foregone is that of a marginal worker in agriculture.
Using average incomes in cooperative agriculture as an upper limit measure
of possible output foregone would imply an opportunity cost of around lei 850
per month in 1973.
3.        In actual fact, output in agriculture is unlikely to decline at
all in response to a shift of labor into other sectors, since mechanization
more than compensates for the loss of manpower. The costs of mechanizsation,
therefore, may be taken as defining the minimum limit of labor's opportunity
cost. Here again, exact figures are not available. Using investment figures
as a proxy for the costs of mechanization would imply a minimum cost of lei
246 per month per man in 1973. j
4.        On this basis, the opportunity cost of labor would lie between
lei 246 and lei 850, both figures, however, being upper limit estimates.
There is no general reason to suggest where, within this range, the best
estimate of the opportunity cost of labor would lie except that as stated,
1/ Unfortunately, there are no separate data for investments in the cooperative
sector, so these figures refer to the agriculture sector as a whole. In 1973
about lei 13 billion was invested in agriculture, or lei 2,955 per man.  In-
vestment per man in cooperative agriculture is undoubtedly less than in
agriculture as a whole.



AMI  114
Page 10 of 10
it seems unlikely that the output loss would approach the average income in
agriculture. As a working estimate, a figure is taken midway between the
two limits, i.e. a figure of lei 547, or 27% of the average wage of the skilled
and unskilled labor in the Project.
5.        The factors which tend to make labor more expensive to the Project
than is indicated by the figures for direct wage payments include:
(a) wastage and absenteeism;
(b) social security and other social commitments;
(c) housing costs; and
(d) training costse
These are considered in the following ways:
(a) Wastage and absenteeism allowances have been built into the
Romanian estimates of the wage bill. They represent 10% of the
total wage bill gross of social security contributions (12% for
the mining component).
(b)  The social security contributions (Which are mandatory, though
differ in amount by sector) are l1% of the direct wage bill in
the power component, 10% in the mining component.
(c) Housing and related facilities will cost lei 80 million for
1.,000 flats.  This number, however, is required to house a large
number of workers during the construction phase. only about a
half of the flats will be used by the permanent Project staff,
the remainder being taken over by the Tarceni Village Community.
As a cost to the Project, therefore, only lei 40 million is shown.
(This item is actually entered into the capital cost stream).
(d)  Training costs for the skilled labor are given as lei 56 million,
but these are also included in the capital costs of the Project.
6.        These considerations provide for the following components of a
shadow wage for skilled and unskilled workers in the Project:
lei/Month      % of Actual Wage
a)  Opportunity Cost*               547                 28
b)  Absenteeism etc.                 222                 1l
c)  Social Security etc.             200                10
969                49
* Taking the upper limit for output foregone (lei 850 per month) would
raise the shadow mage to lei 1,272 or 64% of the actual wage.
March 1974



ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 2
ROMANIA
INDUSTRIAL CENTRAL FOR ELECTRIC POWER AND HEAT
The Accounting System
1.        Uniformity and simplicity are significance features of the accounting
and reporting procedures used by all Rcmanian enterprises. All enterprises
of the Industrial Central use a uniform system of accounts and the pre-
scribed monthly report forms. However, they vary considerably frcm those
normally found in other countries with which the Bank deals. The revenues
are recorded not on the basis of customer billings but on the basis of cash
received from sales of production while the expenditures are accrued in the
normal manner Y. The items of expense are recorded according to basic
headings, e.g.: wages, materials, depreciation and other expenses. Costing
by function, allocation of overheads between capital and revenue, distribution
of service department costs according to usage and other forms of cost account-
ing techniques commonly followed by public utility organizations are not used.
Depreciation, normally a non-cash item, is a cash operating expense being paid
to the Investment Bank but largely available for re-investment.
2.        The presentation of liabilities in the balance sheet differs from
the conventional presentation essentially because all assets belong to the
State; for practical purposes there is no capital or long-term debt and all
net income is distributed. Instead net fixed assets in service are represented
by a fixed asset fund and by any outstanding loans for investment projects.
As these loans (i.e. the Investment Bank loans) are repaid, the fixed
asset fund is increased. Financing of work in progress is shown by sources
of investment. As assets are brought into service, the sources of investments
are reduced and the fixed assets fund increased by the value of the completed
asset.  Finally, current assets are represented by sources of working capital
and current liabilities.
3.        The sources and applications of funds statement (Annex 18) is in
fact not a conventional funds statement. It shows only how construction
expenditures are financed; movement in working capital, which is used to
finance production, is not shown.  It does not show the distribution of
benefits; only the benefits to be reinvested. Similarly only depreciation
payments available for investment expenditures are included.
I.        A further unusual feature of the accounting is that construction
expenditures in the funds statement are less than corresponding increases
from year to year in gross fixed assets in service and work in progress in
the balance sheet. This is explained by the inclusion of distribution assets
financed separately and constructed by the distribution system construction
I/ Since collections are only about 13 days behind billing and the treatment
is consistently applied from one year to another, the distortion of gross
revenue would be marginal.



AINiX 15
Page 2 of 2
units within each enterprise (SCM)e Another reason is that some construction
is financed by other Ministries and assets on completion are handed over to
the Industrial Central for operation and control.
5.        The State Budget allocation which is used onlly to finance new
work is not subject to any conventional form of debt service at the present
time. However, depreciation payments are made to the State which are largely
available for reinvestment in the sector. There are also taxes on produc-
tion of electric and thermal energy which are paid to the State by the genera-
tion enterprises.  In addition, there is a 2% fee payable to the  Invest-
ment Bank on fauds being used on plant and equipment investments during the
construction period and a 6% penalty is charged for delays in codmissioning
new plant. Their purpose is to encourage completion of projects so that thLy
become revenue producing on schedule thus preventing disruption of the Socio-
Economic Plan. It is possible that the tax on production may be replaced
in the near future by a tax on invested funds.
March 1974



ROMANT A
Industrial Central for electric Power sod Heat (CIETT)
Income Statese-ta for the Years 1970-19809/
(IT Millions of lei)
To tal
Yeor Ended D-ceb-er 31                                                 1970           1971          1972           1973          1974          1975          1976           1977          1978          1979          1980           1973-1980
----Actu-l ----------                      ------------------------------                 Forecast -------------------------------------------
flectric Energy Sles (GWh)                                            26,652        30,373        33,898          37,740        43,520        47,780        54,340        59,720         65,440        71,610        78,320
Average Revenue per kWh (lei)                                            .316          .316          .314           .314          .313          .308           .313          .313          .313           .312          .311
Operating Revenue
Slons of Electricity                                                  8,428         9,583        10,655          11,851        13,635        14,713        16,988        18,688         20,465        22,330        24,327           142,997
Sales of Host                                                           992          1,164         1,275          1,308         1,420         1,633         1,752          1.8R6         2,018         2,195         2,396            14,608
Other                                                                     57            60            64             67            64            78             82            9^           101            105           110              699
Total Operating Revenue                                            9,477        10,807        11,994          13,226        15,119        16,424        18,822        20,666         22,584        24,630        26,833           158,304
Operating Euponses
Operation, Mainteaucue, Adminiitration                               1,744          1,889         1,958          1,882         2,071         1,980         2,443          2,576         2,727         2,873          2,920           19,474
Purchased Power                                                         56            54            116             98           137           169            207           229           212            195           314            1,561
Fuel                                                                 3,670         4,061          4,281          4,716         5,264         5,870         6,711          7,531         8,450         9,378         10,344           58,264
Deprec-ition                                                         1,535         1,735          1,934          2,149         2,409         2,684         3,063          3,441         3,836         4,283          4,867           26,732
Te-ns                                                                1.128         1.513          1,691          1.874         2.134         2.446         2,641          2.887         3,156         3.453          3,764           22.355
Total Operating Enpennon                                         8,133         9,252         9,980          10,719        12,015        13,149        15,065        16,666         18,381        20,182        22,209           128,386
Operating lonoer                                                       1,344          1,555         2,014          2,507         3,104         3,275          3,757         4,000         4,203          4,448         4,624           29,918
Other Incm-e (Net)                                                      199            85           113             40           107            164           191           240           307            363           436            1.848
Total Income                                                      1,543         1,640         2,127           2,547         3,211         3,439         3,948          4,240         4,510         4,811          5,060           31,766
Interest                                                                                                                              5            26            50            70             81            87            86               405
IBRD.. ten                                                                                                                          5)          (26)          (50)          (70)           (Ii)          (44              -26
(L.es) Interest Cherged to Construction                                                                                             -             -                            -                                                     _  129
Net Int-reot
Net Income                                                              1.543    A      _               L            5            3.211   3- 439              3 948         4240           4 0                          .974             167
Arte  of  Returi                                                      32 129-/       35 247        40,408         46.050        52.436         57,764        63,592        71,113        81,484         93,751       107,142
Operuting IN c  td Ae ih Serf                                              4.2          544           .50             5.4            5.9           5.7           5.9           5.6            5.2           4.7            4.3
i/ lee annee  i6 fur a doucriptiou  uf the accounting uystem  -nd Aenn  20 for notes rnd  -umunptins oun financiul  statements.
j Booed en Tet Fioed A-oets in Servicu end Worling Capital fur your endud December 31, 1970 only.
May 1974






kOMANIA
Indstia1 GenLia  fo  Electric Paer and Heat (CIEET
Balance Sheets for tbe Years 1970-19802
(in Millions oi Lei)
Year Ended December 31                    1970          1971           1972               1973           1974          1975          1976         1977           1978            1979           1980
------------ Act-l ------------                        ------------ -     -------------------- Forecast --------_-_________________________________
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Fixed Assets is Scrvie  (at  acEt)                                42,594        50,285         55,803             65,406         72,906        80,874        90,056        102,028        117,746        135,160        154,235
-ss:  Accomulated Oepreciation                                   11.225         12.763        14.392             16,556         18,980        21,760        24.804         28.232         32.14S         36.987         41.973
Net Flied Assets is S-ecice                                       31,369         37,522        41,411             49,850         53,926        59,114        65,252         73;796         85,606         98,173        112,262
lo   10 Progress (or Investmects)                                 13.706        13_669         14.687             14,891         16,974        21,307        27,820         31,809         36.791         39,555         4o,916
Total Net Fed_ Asets                                          45,075         51,191         56,098             63,741        70,900         80,421        93,072        i05,605        122,397       137,728        152,778
Cacrent Asnets
Cask at Back                                                         242            207           283                244            270            308          354            416            463            525            587
F.el end Material Stock.                                             819            864           953              1,C^O          1,086          1,247        1,403           1,564         1,737          1,900          2,074
Accooctn Receivable                                                  271            368           420                394            428            493           555           626            691            759            831
Etetrprise Correct A-c-cts                                           32             27            34                111             13             97          166            349            632            879          1.119
Total Cerront Asne;t                                            1,364         1,466          1,690              1,749          1,797          2,145        2,478          2,955          3,523          4,063          4,611
TOTAL ASSETS                                                   44,439        52.657         57.788             65,490         72,697        82,566        95,550        108,560        125,920        11.1          1L
L ILB TIE8
Eqoity and Borru in
Fixed Asset Fond                                                  31,313         37,458        41,349             48,793         53,866         59,052       65,i88         73,730         85,538         96,903        fll,018
Inventme-t Baek Loao                                                  56             64            62                 57             60             62           64             66             68             70             74
Proposed IBRD Lens                                                     _                             -                                                 _  _        -              -                        1,200          1,170
Total Equity and BorAwings                                     31,369        37,522         41,411             43,850         53,926        59,114        65,252         73,796         85,606         98,173        112,262
Sosrean of Enveotqnets
Internet Ctah Goneraties                                           2,455          3,100         3,526              4,012          4,732          5,173        5,872          6,464          7,053          7,687          8,391
Strte  Budget Allocation                                          10,441          9,571         9,593              9,468         10,625         13,876       19,078         21,936         25,837         28,828         28,752
Aeotnic Fxyable - Construction                                       810            998          1,568              1,411         1,569          1,778         2,056          2,327         2,701          3,040          3,373
Proponed IBR1   L.an                                                                _             _                                  48            480           814         1.082          1,                  -              -
Total Sources_o._Ieetments                                     13,706         13,669        14,687             14,891         16,974        21,307        27,820         31,809         36,791         39,595         4o,516
Sources of WockiCa acpital
Working Capital Fend                                                 623            680            776                826           954          1,122         1,279          1,451          1,628          1,796          1,966
Shkrt Term Loae-                                                     137            122            166                 94            94            122           130            138            155            176            178
To al_Srrcen of Workino Capital                                   760            802            942               920          1,048          1,244         1,409          1,589          1,783          1,972          2,144
Onrrent Liabilities
Aecomnte Payable - Operatio-                                         398            475            544                583            481           621           771          1,058          1,421          1,760          2,127
Customer Lepo:its                                                    140            158            178                190            193           205           212            216            221            226            230
Undistribkted Besefits                                                66             31             26                 56            70             75            86             92             98            105            110
Total Cuent Libilities                                            604            664            748                829           749            901         1,069          1,366          1,740          2,091          2,467
TOTAL LIABILITIE                                               46.459         52.657        52.788             65490          7,697          8566          95,550        1 0            125,920        141,791        157,389
See Amneo 16 for   desriptiom of the -c-ounting 6yctem end Anex 20 for notes cnd aeo-mpticns on ficancial etatemen.
Hey 1974



R0NIA7T
lodustrial Central for Electric Power and Heat (CIEEf)
Soures_anjij _llcations of Fonda for the Yearn 1970 -198W0
(in M4illion.. -' Let)
Total
Year Ended Deceber 31                   1970          19 71         197 2            1973.         1974          19 75        19 7          197           1978          19 79        19019 73-1980
Year Anded         --------                 ------         -----------A-t-a------        Forecast -          ----------------------           --19
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Benefita Reinvented                                         810         1,308         1,537            1,783         2,248        2,408         2,763         2,968        3,157         3,338         3,482          22,147
Depreciation                                              1,565         1,709        1,939             2,178         2,424        2,703         3,044         3,428        3,826         4,277         4,834          26,714
Other Sorcee                                              _  8             83        __50                 51            60        _.6Z             65            68           70             72           75             523
Total _nternal Sourne                                  2,455         3,100        3,526             4,012        4,732         5,173         5,872         6,464        7,053         7,687         8,391          49,384
External Snu-een
Stater  adgat Alloc.tion                                   3,311        3,224         2,934             2,852        3,057         4,279        6,670         7,910         9,778        10,721       lo,490         55,757
Investment Bank Loana                                         56           64            62                58           60            62           64            66            68            70           74             522
Proposad I3RR Loan                                             -            -             -                 -           48           432          334           268           118             -            -           1,200
Total Eaternal_Sources                                 3,367         3,288         2,996            2,910         3,165         4,773        7,068         8,244         9,964       10,791        10,564          57,479
TOTAL SOURCES                                          5,822         6,388        6,522             6,922         7,897         9,946       12,90         1717                        18.478       18,955         16.863
APPLICATIONS OF FUNfS
Conetractien Reqairennr." (I-cluding
Interent Charged to Con.treation)W                     5,788        6,332         6,458             6,86o         7,839         9,886       12,878        14,644        16,951       18,367        18,769         106,194
Debt Service.
ADeatizatian at Lnane                                         34           56            64                62            38           60            62            64           66           68            lsk 12o
Interent on Proponed IBRD Loan                                _                                                                                                                              3             86             129
Total Debt Service                                        34            56            64               62            58            60           62            64            66          111            186             669
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                     5,822         6,388        6_S22             6,972         7 7           9,946        12,940       14,78         17,017       18 8               15863
1/ See Annex 16 for a description of the acounting system and Annex 20 for notes and assnmptions on financial statenente.
j Interest charged to constru-tion is calculated only on the amount of the Sank loan.
May 1974



ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 5
ROMANIA
INDUSTRIAL CENTRAL FOR ELECTRIC POWER AND HEAT
Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements
A. Income Statement
Revenues
1.        All revenues are based on cash received from sales of
electricity and other products. Unpaid accounts reflect 3-5 days
billings and are shown under current assets. Income accrued on
unread meters at year end is not brought to account.
Other operating revenues comprise cash received from
the sale of industrial water and ash.
Electricity tariffs in force since 1963 are assumed to
be unchanged for the purposes Of the forecasts (Annex 7 ).
Other income (net) is derived mainly from the two
manufacturing enterprises of the CIEET, rentals of transport to
other enterprises and from houses occupied by staff of the enter-
prises.
Operating Expenses
2.        Wages for the purposes of the forecasts have been assumed
to increase annually about 1.5% to cover incremental effects in addi-
tion to an 8% general real wage increase about the end of 1975. The
average monthly wage was assumed to be 1831 lei in 1974 rising to 2000
lei in 1980. The estimated number of employees has been correlated
with the increase in the number of MW's of installed plant.
3.        Purchased power comes from three distinct sources:
3.1   imports from neighboring countries with whom
transmission lines are interconnected. The
price paid is prescribed in the tariff law
(Annex 7 ) and is the same as for exports.
3.2   surplus power from captive plant largely that
of the Ministries of Chemical Industry and
Heavy Machinery which generate power for heat-
ing purposes. The price paid is 250 lei per



ANNEX 19
Page   of 5
MWh unless the actual cost is higher
in which case the planned cost is
paid plus a 3% benefit.
3.3 electricity generated during the commis-
sioning of new plant (operating costs
during commissioning are capitalized).
The price is based on the average cost
price in the system for that particular
form of generation.
4.        Depreciation has been calculated using the conventional
straight line method. The rates are prescribed in Law 62 of 1968.
Depreciation of assets used by the distribution construction units
(S.C.M.) which operate within each distribution enterprise is not
included in the figure as SCM units are self-accounting.
5.        Taxes comprise a turnover tax on electricity production
of 39 lei per MWh, 6 lei per giga calory on thermal energy produced
and an 11% social security contribution calculated on gross wages
paid.
6.        Interest relates only to the proposed Bank loan.  Interest
and commitment fees on Investment Bank moneys is capitalized while interest
on short-term loans provided by the National Bank are included under opera-
tion, maintenance and administration expenses.
B. Balance Sheet
Fixed Assets in Service
7.        Fixed assets are valued at construction cost.  They include
assets constructed by other ministries for the control and use of the
MEE. On the other hand they exclude assets financed by the MEE
which are transferred for operational purposes to other ministries
e.g.: railway line to supply fuel to a power station may be financed
by the MEE but transferred to the Ministry of Transportation for
operation.
Distribution assets up to 110 kV which are constructei by
the SCM but financed mainly from local administration budgets are
also included.



ANNEX 19
Page 3 of 5
Work in Progress
8.        Finance for capital work in progress comes from three
sources: internal cash generation, state budget allocations and
investment creditors. The sum of these sources will match the
work in progress figure in each year of the forecasts.
Current Assets and Current Liabilities
9.        When projecting current assets, the Ministry has calcu-
lated current assets to eaqual 8% of total net fixed assets in each
year. The items cash at bank, fuel and material stocks and
accounts receivable are split in the same proportion for each year
of the projections; the split being based on the average of the
actual figures for the yearsl970-1972.
The figures presented in the balance sheet forecasts
(Annex 1? ) do not equal 8% of total net fixed assets because
certain current asset items have been offset against corresponding
items in current liabilities. For example: the item "enterprise
current accounts" is the difference between amounts owed to the
C=EFT by the enterprises and the amount owing to the enterprises
by the ClIET. Settlement of these accounts is made in the normal
course every 5 days.
Similarly, a current asset account which accumulates the
progressive payments of planned benefits during the year by the
enterprises has been offset against total benefits earned which are
shown in current liabilities. The difference between these accounts
at year end is shown in undistributed benefits under current liabil-
ities. This presentation shows the true level of current liabilities
and current assets.
Fixed Asset Fund
10.       This fund and the corresponding figure in the same year
for Investment Bank loans will equal net fixed assets in service
at the end of the year. As assets in work in progress are completed
the value of the completed assets is transferred to fixed assets in
service and at the same time the fixed asset fund is increased by
the same amount. As the latter entry is made, the value of items
financed from the State Budget are deducted from the State Budget
allocation under sources of investment.
Sources of Working Capital
11.       Funds are provided to each enterprise by the National Bank
as working capital to meet costs of production. They take two forms;



ANNEX 19
Page 4 of 5
a working capital fund which is fixed annually based on the minimum  fnormalitf
working capital required during the year and short term loans which
are drawn as required to meet any excess.
The "minimum" normal working capital is determined by
calculating each year the estimated normal working capital require-
ment for the 1st and 4th quarter and deducting estimated internal
sources.  The "minimum" normal working capital is the lower figure.
The normal working capital is determined by dividing the estimated
volume of production expenditures by estimated annual turnover.
Internal sources are based on norms prescribed for all enterprises
by the Ministry of Finance. For the purposes of the forecasts the
internal sources were assumed to be a predetermined percentage of
production costs. The short term loan for each year is the difference
between the minimum normal working capital required for the 4th
quarter and that required for the 1st quarter. Short term loans are
made available from the National Bank at rates of interest around
2-3% per annum for periods up to a maximum of one year. They are repaid
from benefits.
C. Sources and Applications of Funds
Benefits Re-invested
12.        For purposes of the financial forecasts it was agreed with
the MEE to assuwe that 70% of total benefits earned by the enter-
prises of the Industrial Central would be re-invested in the sector.
Depreciation
13.        Similarly with depreciation, an assumption was made that
all depreciation moneys paid to the Investment Bank by the enterprises
of the Industrial Central would be re-invested in the sector. However,
in the case of fixed assets that have reached the end of their useful
life, depreciation charges have been continued but only 60% of the
depreciation is treated as a source of funds, 15% is distributed by
the Industrial Central to the enterprises for uncentralized investnents
and the remaining 25% is using for improving equipment within the enter-
prises.
Other Sources
14.        These funds are primarily derived from the sale of scrap
materials and are paid directly to the National Bank. They are not
treated as income in the income statement.



ANNEX 19
Page 5 of 5
Investment Bank Loans
15.       Loans are made by the Investment Bank from credit funds specifically
for purposes of modernizing or increasing the productive efficiency of existing
assets. They are assumed to be repaid in the year following their receipt
subject to interest at 2% per annum. These funds are limited and because the
bank requires that the loans be for economically viable projects which means
that they should earn a higher return than projects financed directly from
State Budget funds, they are not a major source of finance.
March 1974






0~~ 42En = 
;E                                                              CIO Clj
I t 
0    4<<    a   r    -,   -                                   4~~~~~~~~LL
~~~~~~~~  <00  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~     ~ ~       ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~C






"A                                                                                                                      t ~~~~  ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24~  27~
C     POLAND7
1*    6EOLOVAKA                            U.   S.    S.    R.
Scnc
1S;w &5   X  X                1A, -{ I  /                                    |FHUGAY                       - - .
UrdoeiideJnz2"'                                              St.| e.i,nUN,  AR   /                                                                                                               N
R 0  M   A  N   I A',
SUBSTATION 220IIOKV                                                                                                                                 -, % \   \JECT  ,CH..AREST                                  4
PESTEANRATt                                                                                                                                                -
~~~-~'~-y              Black
2                        ~~~~Sea
,A-.   onsm  \  -     B U L G A R I A
-42                                                                      42
G,b.,                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ad,rio tic  IN
Sea
\ Girbowa§\t g t \\ m 18' < t.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~le21t'                                                                    _              'E-J27- T U R-K-EYi,_;
Th, bo-dori how on thi, map do, not
-ply 'do    t or  pt-nce by the
World Book and it, affiliat,,
ROM AN IA
TURCENI THERMAL POWER STATION            _\\\i\3rebenel                    >   J  \TURCENI THERMAL POWER STATION
PROJECT
EXISTIN        G             PROJECT   F     UTR
\_          \ \\\/T400KV
220 KV
IIOKV
ROADS
CODAL  MIN4ES  -,\\>fbet OD
---------EXISTING RAILROADS
STRCENIN  T                                    .------- - -  PROPOSED RAILROADS TO CARRY LIGNITE
4 I 0 A 0 K                                               - -; -UILTUP AREAS
-RIVERS
COAL MINES
';s.,','PROJECTED            BOrtc  ,aa 't  KILOMETERS r 
P51. - EXIST NO                     -                                                                                  R-cnrii deANA
EXPIL RPRO             TLOMED TR  I 
EXPLOREDS ARE APOE    AT4                                                                                         oridis' 



