             Document of
           The World Bank




                                      Report No: 35003

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
         (IDA-33260 TF-25384)

                ON A

         PROPOSED CREDIT

 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.2 MILLION
    (US$28.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

               TO THE

        REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

                FOR A

    CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




             June 28, 2006

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective March 2000)

                         Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YER)
                              YER 100 = US$ 0.62
                                US$ 1 = YER 161
                               SDR 1 = US$1.34

                               FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 to   December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABP       Area-Based Program
ANC       Ante-natal Care
ARI       Acute Respiratory Infection
CAPA      Cooperation Agreement for Project Assistance
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBN       Community Based Nutrition
CDP       Child Development Project
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DEO       District Education Offices
DHMTs     District Health Management Teams
DHS       District Health System
DMTs      District Management Team
ECD       Early Childhood Development
EmOC      Emergency Obstetric Care
EPI       Expanded Program for Immunization
GAREWS    General Authority for Rural Electrification and Water supply
GS        General Secretary
GOY       Government of Yemen
GTZ       German Technical Cooperation
HBS       Household Budget Survey
HC        Health Center
HCMC      Higher Council for Motherhood and Childhood
HD        Human Development
HU        Health Unit
IEC       Information Education Communication
IMCI      Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses
LDCs      Local Development Committees
MOE       Ministry of Education
MOPHP     Ministry of Public Health and Population
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NPS       National Population Survey
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
ORS       Oral Rehydration Solution
PAD       Project Appraisal Document

PCU    Project Coordinating Unit
PTA    Parent-Teacher Associations
SC     Steering Committee
SG     Secretary General
TA     Technical Assistance
TBA    Traditional Birth Attendants

                   Vice President:   Christiaan Poortman
                  Country Director   Emmanuel Mbi
          Sector Director/Manager    Michal Rutkowski/Regina Bendokat
                Task Team Leader     Francisca Ayodeji Akala

                                  REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                            CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            42
Annex 8. Supplemental Data on project Achievements                               43

Project ID: P050483                                                  Project Name: RY CHILD DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader: Francisca Ayodeji Akala                                 TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: RY CHILD DEVELOPMENT                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-33260; TF-25384
   Country/Department: REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                  Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (64%); Other social services (12%); Primary education (11%); Central government
                            administration (10%); Tertiary education (3%)
                  Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Child health (P); Nutrition and food security (P);
                            Gender (S); Education for all (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/04/1998                                     Effective: 09/30/2000                12/19/2000
     Appraisal: 05/14/1999                                         MTR: 03/31/2003                  10/01/2003
      Approval: 03/21/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2005                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN/YEMENI COUNCIL FOR MOTHERHOOD AND
                                           CHILDHOOD
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Emmanuel Mbi                                   Inder Sud
Sector Director:                Michal Rutkowski                               Jacques F. Baudouy
Team Leader at ICR:             Francisca Ayodeji Akala                        Arun Joshi
ICR Primary Author:             Afrah Alawi Al-Ahmadi;
                                Francisca Ayodeji Akala


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Context: During the late 1990s, nearly 42% of the population in Yemen lived below the poverty line.
Infant and child mortality remained high at 84 and 117 per 1,000 live births, respectively; almost half of
children under five years of age were malnourished; clear gender disparities existed in school-age children
with primary enrollment rates of 80% for boys and 40% for girls; and less than 50% of the population had
access to safe drinking water and sanitation. This situation was even more severe in rural communities,
where access to social services was very limited. While some progress had been made with respect to
expansion of service delivery since the 1980s, efforts had been dwarfed by high population growth and the
poor quality and reach of social services. The Government of Yemen (GOY) was aware of the need to
reform its strategies and approaches to address key human development (HD) issues, including:
supply-driven and highly centralized service delivery; insufficient public expenditures in health and
education; lack of intra-sectoral coordination; and inefficient central/regional/local coordination.

At the time of project preparation, the Ministries of Health and Education were seeking support from the
Bank to address these management, financial, and service delivery issues and were exploring various
models to strengthen the capacity of regional/local offices and to engage communities in service delivery.
UNICEF had piloted an area-based program (ABP) in Yemen in 10 districts in three governorates. The
program implemented mainly education activities in five districts, and extended beyond education to water
and health activities in the other five districts. UNICEF consistently had a strong field presence, and had
an ongoing dialogue with local authorities and communities. Evaluation of the pilot found that the ABP
was cost-effective in providing basic social services to disadvantaged communities and was a model for a
coordinated community-oriented approach to address child health and education. With the success of the
ABP, and UNICEF's field presence and technical capacity, GOY found it advantageous to channel IDA
funding through the ABP to allow the scope and scale of the program to be expanded to under-served areas.
In addition, IDA and UNICEF were eager to enter into a partnership of this magnitude, a first of its kind
for both agencies, and IDA was also interested in a decentralized approach. The Child Development
Project (CDP) was a joint GOY-UNICEF-IDA operation, with a total estimated cost of US$45.3 million,
and in addition to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) between GOY and IDA, GOY also signed a
Cooperation Agreement for Project Assistance (CAPA) with UNICEF to support the implementation of the
project by sectoral ministries, local governments and local communities.

The project development objective (PDO) was to assist the Government of Yemen in the implementation of
a coordinated area-based program (ABP) for improving the health and nutritional status of children
under five and the educational status of girls in primary schools in 30 targeted districts that are
under-served in the areas of health and education. It was planned that the project would operate in 30
under-served rural districts in 9 governorates. The PDO was relevant to the government's poverty reduction
strategy which emphasized the improvement of key HD indicators. It was in line with the Country
Assistance Strategy, specifically "creating an early stream of social benefits in education, health and other
services most valued by Yemenis;" and "creating a modern public administration." The project also
recognized the central government's efforts to reform its strategies in service delivery and reorient it
towards a policy making and regulatory role. However, the PDO set an ambitious agenda for building
institutional capacity and synergy among the social sectors, and underestimated the lack of coordination
among government institutions and the weak capacity of local governments to ensure coordination.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective was not revised during implementation.



                                                      - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:
The original project components, including component objectives and cost estimates at project appraisal,
are summarized in the table below.

Component and Estimated Cost at Appraisal                                Component Objective
1. Community Readiness (US$1.33 million)                To improve community readiness for project inputs
                                                        through training in assessing needs and planning and
                                                        through social mobilization
2. Health Activity (US$25.76 million)                   To improve the health status of children under age 5 in 9
Five sub-components: District Health System; Integrated governorates in general and in 30 selected districts in
Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI);               particular
Immunization Program; Safe Motherhood; and Water
and Sanitation
3. Nutrition Activity (US$1.51 million)                 To reduce child malnutrition and growth failure in the
                                                        selected districts using sustainable and effective
                                                        approaches
4. Education Activity (US$9.12 million)                 To assist the Government in increasing access, learning
Three sub-components: Community Schools for Girls;      achievement, and grade 6 completion rates in selected
Women Teacher Training; and Textbook Storage and        districts in the 9 Governorates
Distribution
5. Pilot Early Childhood Development Activity           To improve educability of young children through pilot
(US$0.52 million)                                       community-based ECD models which will be carefully
                                                        evaluated for future expansion
6. Project Management (US$2.26 million)                 To support the direct cost of management of the project
                                                        by the Yemeni High Council for Mothers and Children
                                                        (HCMC)


While the components were needed and relevant to achieving the project objectives, implementing the
multiple sector/sub-sector activities in an integrated manner at the district level was ambitious in the
absence of essential building blocks such as institutional capacity, decentralized levels of governance and
clear implementation modalities to coordinate the three different financing/implementing agencies.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Unsatisfactory

Quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory based on the complexity of the project design and approach; unclear
division of implementation responsibility; unclear and overlapping implementation procedures; the lack of a
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system or plan to measure indicators; and insufficient risk-mitigating
arrangements. An integrated multi-sectoral approach within the limited institutional capacity setting
proved too complex. Given that the project was scaling up the scope of the ABP from 5 districts (1998 to
2001) to 30 districts (to be implemented over 5 years), the design was too ambitious and complex and did
not include measures to deal with the lack of experience in implementing integrated approaches in the social
sectors and the weak public sector collaboration and coordination. This resulted in a lack of understanding
and weak ownership of the integrated approach to local development by stakeholders. The implementation
arrangements were too complex for the Yemeni context, known for its weak implementation capacity. The
implementation responsibilities were distributed among three ministries, which were to be supported by



                                                      - 3 -

UNICEF and the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), and overall management and coordination
responsibility were given to the Higher Council for Motherhood and Childhood (HCMC) and the Steering
Committee (SC). The division of responsibility among the five key implementation and oversight agencies,
as well as the division of responsibility between the central ministries, subnational offices and local
councils, was not clear. The project used three different sets of procurement procedures and financial
management arrangements: (i) IDA procedures for all IDA-financed activities managed by the PCU; (ii)
procedures described in the CAPA for all IDA-financed and UNICEF-managed activities; and (iii)
UNICEF procedures for all UNICEF-financed activities. The implementation capacity of both the
UNICEF country office and the PCU to manage these different arrangements was overestimated. Although
identified during project preparation as a risk for sustainability, the need to ensure adequate operational
and maintenance budget allocations and staff deployment to health and education services supported by
the project were not addressed.

In general, the design of the project was based on the ABP pilot, which was being implemented in a few
governorates and consisted largely of interventions in only the education sector. Although an evaluation of
the ABP was carried out during project preparation, which positively assessed the benefits of the program
on service delivery, it is not clear that the pilot was sufficiently owned and understood by relevant
government institutions. Two Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grants totaling
US$450,000 (one Bank-executed and one recipient-executed) were provided to assist in the preparation of
the project. The grants were satisfactorily implemented and extremely important in identifying issues,
exploring approaches, assessing the project context and feasibility, and bringing the major partners together
to discuss policy reform and project design. The grants were useful but not sufficient to address the
various capacity and complexity issues identified as risks.

The Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) reviewed the project's quality at entry in 1999 and rated it
"Marginal" based on the following: (i) the project proposed a complex set of interventions without
proposing vehicles for delivering these interventions; (ii) the project did not specify how the activities of the
different sub-components would be integrated in a coherent strategy to achieve the objectives; and (iii) the
assessment of the project's impact on GOY budget was weak, representing a high risk to project
sustainability.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of the project development objective is rated Unsatisfactory largely because of the lack of
data to demonstrate achievement, the lack of integration of multisectoral activities, and inadequate
supervision by the Bank. While the project achieved some of the planned outputs, it is not clear how these
impacted the project development objective. Without a systematic monitoring system, it is not possible to
assess project outcomes.       Despite designing detailed M&E indicators during project preparation and
conducting baseline surveys, periodic monitoring was not carried out and post-intervention surveys were
not conducted. Consequently, in the last year of project implementation, an agreement was reached
between the Bank, UNICEF and GOY to reduce the number of indicators and use data from other sources,
such as the national Household Budget Surveys (HBS), to assess project achievement. Despite this scaling
down, data were partially or fully available for only one of four outcome indicators, and five of eleven
output indicators.

According to UNICEF's impact assessment report, immunization coverage, a major contributor to reducing
under-five mortality, improved or remained at approximately 95% in CDP areas; it was also observed that
the CDP interventions on immunization successfully complemented the MOPHP's National Immunization



                                                        - 4 -

Program. According to UNICEF data, access to safe drinking water, which is also important for reducing
under-five mortality, increased by 17% in project areas (short of the 25% target at project preparation).
The project is likely to have significantly contributed to improving access of girls to education, as the
econometric analysis of the project results proved that the CDP increased the net enrollment rate by 20%
points (Annex 3-a). While data for most of the outcome indicators in the targeted districts are not
available, at the national level, under-five mortality and nutritional and educational indicators have shown
only slight improvements from 1997/2000 to 2003/2004 (see supplemental data table in Annex 8). Since
the project was implemented in only half of the governorates, any contribution at the national level is likely
to have been minimal at best.

Besides the lack of a monitoring system to assess outcomes, another major shortcoming which contributed
to the unsatisfactory rating was the implementation framework for the project. The use of a coordinated
area-based program to achieve the objectives was clearly stated in the PAD, but there is little evidence to
support that this actually happened. While communities benefitted from activities in more than one sector
(schools, health centers and water projects), there was very little coordination or integration of the activities
at the district level. Even within the sectors (health in particular), the various sub-sector inputs were
implemented vertically. The combination of a poorly coordinated project framework and the lack of an
adequate M&E system are key factors in the ICR's assessment of the project's failure to meet its objectives.


4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Community Readiness Program
Satisfactory

Overall, this component was marginally satisfactory. The project supported the organization of 446
parent-teacher committees, 125 water management committees, and over 150 health committees. These
committees were provided with training on hiring contractors, monitoring construction and arranging for
maintenance. District Management Teams (DMTs) were trained on community needs assessments and
basic financial management; 70 governorate and district trainers attended courses on social mobilization;
and 1493 women volunteers were trained on social mobilization and networking. The effectiveness of these
committees varies from one community to another and from one sector to another. Water committees and
parent-teacher committees in general appear to be more effective than health committees. The component
fell short in actively involving grass-roots community members in development planning processes with
membership in DMTs dominated by local council members and influential community figures (Sheiks),
leaving limited scope for grass-root level community involvement in decision-making. The training
provided was not always seen by participants as relevant or applicable to the community circumstances.
The planning process by the DMTs was not guided by the availability of sufficient data which is a
nationwide problem. Social mobilization was partially achieved through training by the National Center
for Health Education of women volunteers as community communicators on issues related to child survival.
However, the benefits could have been maximized if the communicators had been formally linked with
service providers.

Component 2: Health Activity
Unsatisfactory

Despite the achievements of the immunization sub-sector, the overall performance of the health component
is rated unsatisfactory. The situation did not improve with regard to the proportion of children under five
who had diarrhea and fever, or the proportion of pregnant women receiving qualified ante natal care.



                                                       - 5 -

Improvement of community access to quality health care has remained limited and no significant
improvement is evident in the district health management system. Implementation of the sub-components
was not coordinated; most activities were planned centrally and therefore mostly unresponsive to local
needs.

Sub-component 2.1 District Health System: Unsatisfactory
Forty-one new health facilities were constructed and equipped, and 17 facilities rehabilitated but many are
under-utilized because they lack adequately qualified health staff and resources to ensure a continuous
supply of drugs and medical supplies. Despite the training provided, there has been no significant
improvement of the health information system as a result of the project, with information flow fragmented
and uncoordinated. Although five districts were provided with computers and training on a pilot basis,
there was no follow-up support, and the information generated by the facilities is not being utilized. District
Health Management Teams (DHMTs) were established and received training on planning, supervision, cost
sharing, and team building. However, the DHMTs have very minimal decision-making power for effective
management, because they have limited control over budgeting and staff management, and there is a lack of
clarity on cost-sharing arrangements.

Sub-component 2.2 Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses: Unsatisfactory
Although the Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI) protocol was introduced, the IMCI
policy and approach have not been mainstreamed within the health system beyond the CDP sites. A
significant number of staff and community volunteers were trained: case management training was
provided to 32 professors, MOPHP senior staff and pediatricians at the national level; 107 physicians and
health staff at the governorate level; and 707 paramedical staff at the district level in CDP sites. Training
was also extended to 54 national facilitators and course directors, 287 community IMCI trainers, and 610
community communicators. A major shortcoming was the interruption in the supply of IMCI drugs at the
facility level as a result of severe procurement and distribution delays at the national level. While drugs
procured in earlier rounds under the project were delivered and utilized, the last shipment remained at the
MOPHP central warehouse at the closing date, despite the fact that there were shortages already at the
facility level.

Sub-component 2.3 Immunization Program: Satisfactory
With 2,768 Expanded Program for Immunization (EPI) workers trained and 14.5 million DPT doses
procured by the mid-point of the project, immunization coverage reached over 95% in CDP areas. The
CDP interventions were successfully integrated as part of the MOPHP's National Immunization Program.
After 2003, GOY secured funding for vaccines from other sources and shifted CDP investment to cold
chain procurement. Only in 2005 was EPI micro-planning introduced at the facility level to strengthen the
routine immunization program. It is still too soon to assess the effectiveness of the EPI micro-planning.

Sub-component 2.4 Safe Motherhood: Unsatisfactory
Eight Emergency Obstetric Care (EmOC) centers were upgraded, 688 health care providers were trained in
emergency obstetric care, and 63 health trainers received training in infection prevention, infection control
and clean delivery (these then trained 3276 additional health staff). Twenty thousand delivery kits for
midwives and traditional birth attendants were procured and distributed by the MOPHP to support safe
home deliveries, but no information is available on how these kits have improved service delivery. The
proposed pilot referral system for difficult pregnancies also was not implemented. The MTR report raised
concerns regarding the low number of female health workers, but the recommendation to recruit additional
workers was not sufficiently addressed.

Sub-component 2.5 Water and Sanitation: Satisfactory


                                                     - 6 -

The project targeted increasing access to water by 278,000 people in the 30 districts (25% of the
intervention population). This subcomponent is rated marginally satisfactory, as only 188,018 people
(17% of the intervention population) were reached through 68 different water schemes (48 mechanized
schemes, 9 solar-pump schemes, 4 hand-pump schemes, and 16 rain water harvesting schemes). The
project supported the establishment of local water management committees to manage the systems and
make decisions on operation and maintenance (O&M). These committees received training in management
and O&M, were provided guidelines, and were sensitized to different options for ensuring access of poorer
members of the community to the water supply. Twenty-one General Authority for Rural Electrification
and Water Supply (GAREWS) staff received training in the use of computer software to design water
schemes, and GAREWS field offices were equipped with water testing kits. The project was less
successful in improving environmental sanitation, largely due to a lack of capacity. Standard designs for
the construction of latrines were developed by UNICEF under the project but were not implemented. Very
little attention was given to hygiene education activities, despite the development of a manual for this
purpose. The sub-component was not linked with the health and education services, thereby losing an
opportunity to maximize the social benefits, especially with regard to health and girls' education.

Component 3: Nutrition Activity
Unsatisfactory

Achievement under this component was marginally unsatisfactory, largely because implementation
commenced late and therefore the coverage, as recommended during the MTR, was reduced to 10 districts,
in order to ensure completion. Overall, 424 health trainers, 223 health workers and 509 community
volunteers were trained on Community Based Nutrition (CBN) initiatives and supplied with tools.
Awareness sessions on key nutrition issues and messages were held for religious leaders, school teachers,
district council members, and health staff. Very useful educational materials promoting exclusive
breast-feeding and complementary feeding were produced and staff and volunteers trained in their use. The
project, however, did not establish the foundations of a sustainable CBN program which was a key
objective of this sub-component and the program was not fully integrated into the IMCI framework.

Component 4: Education
Satisfactory

The result of the econometric impact evaluation shows that even after controlling the socioeconomic
characteristics, the project seemed to significantly contribute to an increase in the enrollment of girls in the
CDP areas (Annex 3-a). This result can be attributed to a number of achievements under the component,
including: (i) combining physical accessibility and improvement of school buildings with community
activities, such as the establishment of parent-teacher committees and their involvement in advocating
education for girls; (ii) the provision of school kits; and (iii) the timely availability of textbooks. The
project also achieved an increase in the ratio of girls to boys in Grade 6 by more than the targeted 15% in
the pilot districts. Learning achievement was not monitored under the project.

During implementation, 981 classrooms were constructed (compared to the planned 210) and 406
classrooms rehabilitated (compared to the planned 600) and all of these classrooms were in use. In-service
training was provided to 9,379 teachers (male and female). In collaboration with GTZ, and in close
collaboration with MOE, the project financed the upgrading of training modules for teachers, headmasters
and supervisors. The project contributed positively to the timely distribution of textbooks and their
availability in schools.

To address the lack of female teachers in rural areas, which is an important determinant of girls' drop-out


                                                        - 7 -

rates, MOE agreed to contract 2,000 rural female teachers per year and provide pre-service training. The
project trained 5,140 new female teachers from the targeted rural areas, but GOY did not fulfill its
commitment to subsequently recruit all the trained teachers. Only 578 of these teachers were employed
during the project life, of which only 138 were allocated to CDP governorates (and not necessarily to
CDP-supported schools). Female teachers trained through the project indicated that they value the quality
and relevance of the training received, and have positive perceptions of how the training contributed to
improving their teaching skills. However, the minimal utilization of trained female teachers represents
another lost opportunity to contribute to the retention of girls in schools and their completion of Grade 6.

Component 5: Pilot Early Childhood Development
Satisfactory

Achievements were marginally satisfactory with activities commencing very late due mainly to a lack of
expertise in the country and GOY's hesitation to finance international experts from the credit proceeds.
The project, however, introduced early childhood development (ECD) principles in Yemen for the first time
with the commencement of a one-year on-line ECD diploma course with the University of Victoria,
Canada. Sixteen participants (4 male, 12 female) were selected from four different governorates. An ECD
resource center was established within HCMC and staff were trained. A package of communications
materials was developed and used in sensitization and orientation activities targeting 160 frontline health
and education workers in four governorates, and 25 individuals received TOT courses. The project
collaborated with universities and NGOs on studies to inform activity design and implementation. Despite
these achievements, the project did not succeed in formulating a national ECD policy nor in piloting an
ECD model in six districts.

Component 6: Project Management
Unsatisfactory
Project management was the responsibility of the HCMC, supported by the PCU and UNICEF, and was
marginally unsatisfactory. The objective of the component was to ensure adequate staffing and operational
support to effectively backstop the implementation of the project. International consultants were recruited
in specialized areas, area-based officers were appointed in seven field offices covering the nine project
governorates, and UNICEF-field offices were established and equipped adequately to support
implementation. The project also recruited the PCU director, financial and procurement staff, and office
support staff, and covered the operational budget of the PCU. The component fell short in recruiting
HCMC staff to work closely with UNICEF-recruited staff in the field offices. The MTR report advised
GOY to recruit HCMC staff in all field offices, but only two out of seven HCMC staff were recruited.
This resulted in a missed opportunity for effective collaboration between UNICEF and the HCMC/PCU on
day-to-day management and for capacity development. Recruitment of the M&E officer took place only in
the last 18 months of project implementation, leading to significant deficiencies in monitoring performance
indicators. UNICEF project management was not pro-active in providing technical training for
HCMC/PCU staff in support of project implementation, and the PCU was not pro-active in defining and
implementing procurement/financial management training to its staff when needed.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The CDP project was aimed at social development, and therefore its operations are not based on
profitability considerations. Net Present Value and Economic Internal Rate of Return were not calculated
given the difficulty in estimating the social and economic benefits of the various components of the CDP.
However, cost per beneficiary and cost-effectiveness were calculated to examine the effectiveness of the
CDP interventions relative to their cost. (Details of the economic and cost-effectiveness analysis can be



                                                      - 8 -

found in Annex 3-b.)

During project preparation, the yearly costs per beneficiary were estimated at US$53.80 and US$24.90 for
education and water interventions, respectively. These figures are estimated as operating plus annualized
capital costs and include direct costs for interventions, as well as estimated additional GOY expenditures
on teacher salaries and textbooks. The ICR analysis determined that the actual direct costs were for the
most part well below the predicted costs at US$14.80 and US$10.10 per beneficiary for education and
water interventions respectively in the last year of the project. While part of the difference between
predicted and actual is due to the ICR analysis not being able to include GOY expenditure which was
included during project preparation, given the size of the difference, it seems likely that the project
out-performed predictions even after accounting for additional cost items. The project did increase girls'
enrollment with a total project expenditure of US$11 million on education; in a country of 20 million and
with already existing education programs, the ICR assesses the result as very cost-effective. Project
interventions in health and water, on the other hand, do not appear to have been cost-effective based on the
ICR analysis.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Negligible

The project had a negligible institutional development impact across sectors. In the health sector, the
project introduced the IMCI protocol and the CBN approach, and developed a DHMT training manual, but
in the absence of clearly defined plans and resources to continue implementation, it is difficult to assess
their institutional development impact. In the education sector, the project strengthened the training quality
of teachers, headmasters, and supervisors through the upgrading of training modules and training of
trainers and introduced ECD principles. In the water sector, the project provided the public sector with a
model of a community-based water management system for duplication. The project had little impact on
improving capacities for the implementation of integrated area-based social services. None of the
mainstream public institutions has applied an integrated approach to social service delivery. No evidence
was found that the project had an impact on DHMT performance. There was no proper follow-up on the
use of skills and tools provided to DHMTs through the project, and policy reform needed for enabling
DHMTs to actively play their role did not occur. Committees formed under the project were not deeply
rooted in the wider community participation process, and no linkages exist among the different committees.
Although some of these community committees seem to play a role in O&M services, it seems unlikely that
they would be agents for change beyond the project without some other means of support.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Polio outbreaks in 2004 resulted in redirecting most of MOPHP resources to the emergency efforts and
implementing six National Immunization Days in 2005. This delayed a number of activities planned for the
final year of project implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
l Cabinet changes: Three months into implementation, the project manager was appointed Minister of
    Tourism, leaving his position vacant for five months and delaying implementation. A number of
    ministers and deputies were changed in key project ministries which affected the composition of the
    Steering Committee and which also had an impact on decisions relating to the project, both positively



                                                     - 9 -

    and negatively.
l Inadequate counterpart operational funding negatively affected the quality of services supported by
    the project and led to: (i) an inadequate number of staff in facilities; (ii) inadequate operational budgets
    for the facilities; (iii) lack of drugs and other supplies; and (iv) lack of supervision budget allocated to
    local authorities.
l Bureaucratic administrative procedures in line ministries slowed down implementation. For
    example, it took several months for the MOE to provide school construction standards. In addition, the
    required MOPHP inspection of the last batch of drugs prior to distribution to the governorates had not
    yet taken place at the time of ICR preparation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
l The commitment of the Steering Committee had a positive impact on project implementation. The
    Steering Committee met regularly to address implementation issues and facilitate the processing of
    transactions in the Ministries of Planning and Finance.
l Institutional capacity: UNICEF did not consistently have the required institutional capacity for the
    project size, scope and approach, and experienced a high rate of staff turn-over, with some key
    positions being kept vacant for long periods of time. The project monitoring and evaluation system
    was not developed or implemented until late in the project which negatively impacted data availability
    and analysis. The PCU staff did not have the required skills for adequate supervision of project
    activities and UNICEF did not provide adequate capacity building support to GOY staff for project
    implementation. The PCU performance was also negatively affected by high turn-over of fiduciary
    staff, in particular.
l Dual role of the Project Manager: The Project Manager was also the GS for the HCMC and,
    although he was very committed to the project, the added burden of responsibility as a GS restricted the
    possibility of careful monitoring of the project and timely intervention, especially with such a complex
    project.
l Weak project coordination: The project involved several stakeholders operating at different levels,
    and coordination among them was inadequate. The problem was exacerbated by the lack of
    understanding of the division of roles and responsibilities in the planning and implementation of
    activities. For example, the training needs for teachers were decided at the central MOE in agreement
    with UNICEF and the training was delivered to targeted district teachers without accounting for
    individual school needs. Information flow between UNICEF and the PCU was inadequate, causing
    delays in reporting and negatively affecting the financial flow of project resources.
l Inconsistencies in implementation modalities in the legal agreements (DCA and CAPA) led to
    misunderstanding and misinterpreting the legal obligations of all parties concerned. The MTR
    recommendation for GOY to carry out an in-depth review of these legal documents to reach a common
    understanding was never implemented, and confusion concerning procurement, financial and auditing
    requirements persisted throughout the project life.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project cost was estimated at US$45.30 million at appraisal, with an IDA credit of SDR 21.2 million
(US$28.86 million equivalent or 64%), cofinancing of US$12.51 million by UNICEF (27%), and a GOY
contribution of US$3.90 million equivalent (9%). At the Credit Closing Date, the actual project cost was
US$34.21 million. Only 78.2%, or SDR 16.6 million (US$23 million equivalent or 63.3% of total project
cost), was disbursed out of the IDA Credit; UNICEF cofinancing amounted to US$12.87 million (35.4%),
and GOY contributed US$0.46 million equivalent (1.3%). A balance of SDR 4.6 million (US$6.7 million
equivalent) was cancelled, due to delays in the implementation of a number of health and education
activities resulting from the complex implementation arrangements and the inadequate monitoring of project
performance. The delayed activities could not be financed by the credit and UNICEF decided to finance the



                                                       - 10 -

implementation of these activities beyond CDP. Costs by component and financier can be found in Annex
2.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Unlikely

Project sustainability is rated as unlikely because the institutional capacity for the delivery of a coordinated
area-based program is weak. The system of governance is still very much centralized and the opportunity
under the project to strengthen decentralized planning and implementation functions was not fully utilized.
There was very limited knowledge transfer from UNICEF to HCMC or to governorate/district level staff
during project implementation. The project played a limited role in strengthening community ownership
through efforts at community mobilization and building social capital at the village level, but will require
ongoing support beyond the project life to be sustainable. While the facilities supported by the project are
expected to continue delivering some level of services, they are unlikely to be efficiently utilized because of
inadequate resources. The IMCI and nutrition programs, for example, are unlikely to be sustained because
of the ongoing trend in the MOPHP to provide services through uncoordinated vertical programs. In the
absence of resources to continue to support refresher courses and other much-needed incentives for
community volunteers involved in the various programs, GOY will not have the human resources needed to
maintain and scale up programs supported under the project. High level GOY policy dialogue will be
necessary in order to institutionalize the ECD principles introduced through the project. The water systems
seem to have a better likelihood of being sustained, given the higher level of community participation in
managing the scheme as well as GAREWS' expressed intention of continuing to broadly institutionalize the
community management approach beyond the project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most project-financed activities have been mainstreamed within the regular operations of the ministries but
will continue to require budget allocations from GOY to be sustainable. In addition to providing training to
GOY staff and community volunteers, the project also developed trainers who may continue to conduct
refresher courses, provided resources are available. Newly constructed, rehabilitated and equipped health
facilities, as well as schools and water systems, are being managed by the relevant ministries, but the issue
of recruiting rural female staff and having a consistent O&M budget will continue to require attention. The
General Directorate of IMCI is pushing for the adaptation of IMCI protocol through the on-going process
of health sector reform strategy revision, but it remains far from being accomplished. While the PCU
within the HCMC has been disbanded, the Project Director remains the General Secretary (GS) of the
HCMC (along with a few administrative staff), which continues as an established GOY institution
responsible for the interests of mothers and children in Yemen. The ECD program is officially housed in
the HCMC and will continue to be managed by the institution.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Unsatisfactory
The Bank's overall project preparation performance is rated marginally unsatisfactory because: (i) there
was insufficient institutional analysis to guide the implementation arrangements proposed under the project,
leading to arrangements that were too complex; (ii) definitions of roles and responsibilities of the different
institutions involved in implementation were vague and allowed for different interpretations; (iii) prior to



                                                      - 11 -

project effectiveness, insufficient guidance was provided regarding recruitment of key UNICEF staff,
assigning GOY staff at the governorate level, establishing a monitoring and evaluation system, and training
on IDA procurement and financial procedures; and (iv) there was insufficient involvement of the Ministries
of Finance and Civil Service, and some sectoral authorities like GAREWS in the project preparation
dialogue to ensure ownership. The Bank lending team did process two PHRD grants (one Bank-executed
and the other recipient-executed) to support project preparation and strengthen capacity, but this was not
sufficient to address the various implementation challenges.

7.2 Supervision:
Unsatisfactory
Bank performance during supervision is rated marginally unsatisfactory. Supervision missions, including
field-based task teams, were not always staffed with an appropriate skills mix (specialists from each of the
sectors were not always included) and the frequency of missions was sometimes irregular. Given that about
70% of project interventions were health-related, more input of health specialists on the Bank's supervision
teams was warranted. In hindsight, this would have allowed more coordination and linkages between the
CDP and other IDA-financed health projects in Yemen. Other aspects in which Bank supervision fell short
include: (i) lack of continuity of supervision staff, including four changes in task manager from project
design to closure which negatively affected the continuity and consistency of policy dialogue and project
implementation support; (ii) inadequate support in providing the needed training and guidance to the
implementation team which lacked experience in IDA procurement and financial procedures, leading to
delays; (iii) lack of pro-activity in addressing the unacceptable delay in developing the project monitoring
and evaluation system; and (iv) slow response by the Bank to the budget reallocation requests by GOY
causing delays in the implementation of key components. Despite these challenges and implementation
delays, the Bank supervision teams consistently rated project implementation progress and achievement of
the development objective in the PSR/ISRs as satisfactory, which indicates a lack of realism and candor.
The lack of full access to UNICEF data on project implementation also hindered project oversight.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated Unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory
GOY performance was marginally satisfactory. GOY facilitated and supported the preparation phase and
was committed to mainstreaming activities into its sector programs and policies. Before project
effectiveness and with the support of a GOY-executed PHRD Grant, the project Steering Committee (SC)
was appointed and became active; the PCU was set up and key staff were hired; all actions and financial
arrangements needed for credit effectiveness were in place; and technical discussions on project
implementation were initiated among HCMC, UNICEF, and sector ministries. However, GOY fell short in
assessing the implementation capacity of local authorities or in fully involving them in the project design.
The issue of O&M budget allocation to the relevant sectors was also not fully addressed by GOY during
project preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Unsatisfactory
The HCMC and the SC provided GOY oversight and direction of the project. The performance of GOY
during implementation is rated unsatisfactory overall because: (i) there was a lack of coordination of



                                                      - 12 -

activities among the ministries as well as the various departments within each ministry, leading to a series
of non-integrated vertically implemented activities; (ii) there was lack of involvement of governorate and
district officials in the decisions related to the needs at the local level, resulting in the implementation of
activities that were not of the highest priority; (iii) there was no strategic direction concerning how to
sustain initiatives supported by the project; (iv) there was no follow-up on the commitment to provide
appropriate staffing and operational budgets for facilities, which minimized the effectiveness of the
services; and (v) GOY staff were not assigned appropriately at the local level to take over the
responsibilities of UNICEF staff after project closing. While the HCMC and SC met regularly to approve
project plans and resolve issues, much more could have been done to resolve the broader governance and
structural issues which plagued the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementation arrangements for this project were very complex with a number of institutions (sectoral
ministries, UNICEF and the PCU) designated as implementing agencies. Two separate legal agreements
governed this arrangement: CAPA between GOY and UNICEF, and DCA between GOY and IDA.
Overall, implementation performance is rated as Unsatisfactory.

Sectoral Ministries (MOPHP, MOE and GAREWS: Marginally Unsatisfactory
With support from UNICEF, the ministries were responsible for implementing their sectoral activities at the
national and sub-national level. This role included preparing annual plans, providing staff and needed
counterparts, distributing goods and supplies, monitoring project implementation and preparing reports for
the PCU and UNICEF. Performance varied among the ministries, with GAREWS and MOE as the better
performers in terms of coordinating interventions between the national and sub-national levels. MOPHP
was hindered by the complexity of activities, the lack of coordination among sub-sectors and the difficulty
in implementing a decentralized system. Given the importance of non-health interventions on improving
health outcomes, the MOPHP was not pro-active in collaborating with MOE and GAREWS. It is noted,
however, that the broader issues of staffing, supplies, and decentralization initiatives which were poorly
implemented under the project, were beyond the capacity, scope and mandate of the sectoral ministry to
address under the project.

UNICEF: Marginally Unsatisfactory
In line with the CAPA, UNICEF was responsible for supporting the implementation of the major parts of
the project in collaboration with the sector ministries, with the central tasks being to provide TA, build
capacity and procure drugs and medical supplies. UNICEF provided TA, collaborated with sectoral
ministries, supported capacity building efforts at the local level, and was flexible in adapting wider country
programs to the increased needs of the project. The achievements under the project, though limited, were
largely due to the implementation support of UNICEF. In line with the September 2005 CDP assessment
report financed by UNICEF, the consensus is that UNICEF's performance fell short in: (i) implementation
of a systematic and integrated M&E system, which was only carried out towards the end of the project,
resulting in the inability to effectively assess progress and provide better project implementation support;
(ii) project staffing, which was inconsistent, and information gaps between field offices and the UNICEF
country office; (iii) efforts to prepare communities and build ownership prior to implementation, which
were insufficient; and (iv) coordinating and communicating effectively with the PCU.

PCU: Marginally Satisfactory
The PCU's role in supporting project implementation was carried out in accordance with the DCA and
agreed annual plans. The PCU was mainly responsible for procurement, financial management and
consolidating reports (including those from UNICEF) for submission to the SC and IDA. The PCU's
fiduciary performance was satisfactory and was effective in ensuring that implementation bottlenecks were



                                                         - 13 -

reported and discussed in a timely manner by the SC. However, the PCU performance was hindered by: (i)
frequent changes of fiduciary staff and the limited technical capacity of its staff; (ii) the inability to be
pro-active enough to address the confusion on the division of roles and responsibilities among the various
implementation agencies largely because of a lack of influence on them; (iii) the lack of an M&E system
and the limited access to UNICEF data on project progress; and (iv) the dual role of the PCU Director as
the GS of the HCMC which did not allow full attention to the project or help to clarify the delineation of
roles within the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Unsatisfactory
Overall, the GOY performance was marginally unsatisfactory and reflected a minimal degree of
commitment to project implementation. Given the project complexity, poor institutional capacity and lack
of experience in multi-sectoral community-based approaches, the level of commitment was not sufficient to
deal with the persistent structural issues under the project.

8. Lessons Learned

l A multi-sector area-based program requires a functional decentralized policy framework and a
    supportive management/administrative structure. This project illustrates the challenges inherent in
    partnership arrangements like the one established between the Bank, UNICEF and GOY. The Bank
    and UNICEF were eager to work together on this project, but the challenges were underestimated.
    Given UNICEF's technical capacity and knowledge of childhood issues, and their presence in the
    country, the Bank deferred to UNICEF which resulted in the Bank's own supervision arrangements
    being inadequate, and focussed disproportionately on the education sector (and not health and water).
l Where institutional capacity is limited, project design and implementation arrangements should be
    kept simple. The project proved to be difficult to implement because the design included several sectors
    and the project was implemented through several GOY ministries and agencies. Despite technical
    assistance provided by UNICEF, the project achieved only limited results because of the complex
    design and institutional arrangements.
l Innovative programs need to be assessed and institutionalized before scaling-up. A more rigorous
    assessment and institutionalization of the innovative ABP would have provided a sounder basis for
    scaling up the program in the form of the CDP. The ABP had been piloted in a few districts in Yemen,
    and while the assessment at the time of project preparation was positive, the ABP was still in the early
    stages and not yet able to provide appropriate lessons needed to expand the scope and magnitude of the
    CDP.
l Investing time and resources on community preparedness contributes to the sustainability and
    impact of community-based initiatives. The project illustrated that initiatives that respond to
    community-defined priorities (like the water schemes and community schools in this case) have a better
    chance of being sustained, whereas initiatives that are largely supply-driven and through vertical
    programs (in this case IMCI and CBN) require activities to create the demand in order to increase
    service utilization.
l Commitment of the borrower to project requirements needs to be evident prior to finalizing project
    design. The project would have benefited from involvement of all relevant ministries in the design and
    preparation phase. The Ministries of Finance and Civil Service were not engaged during the
    preparation process, and therefore were not able to inform the assumptions made about project
    operational requirements. A related lesson emerging from this project experience is that if, during
    implementation, government commitments do not materialize, this should be raised with Bank
    management at the earliest possible time.



                                                     - 14 -

l The Bank's technical advice and guidance is highly valued by the client. In order to maximize the
    support offered by the Bank, the following are required: (i) ensuring appropriate skills mix of
    missions and adequate frequency of missions; (ii) ensuring an appropriate degree of stability of task
    managers (and, lacking this, a more effective hand-over process) throughout the project cycle, and
    consistency of key task team members; and (iii) bringing Bank support closer to the client and making
    it accessible in a timely manner, by involving field-based staff, especially in fiduciary aspects.
l Ensure that an adequate monitoring and evaluation system is in place at a very early stage of
    project implementation. Attention needs to be given during project preparation to having a system in
    place for assessment of project progress and maintaining focus on development objectives; informing
    annual planning; and maintaining a credible supervision process.
l Candor and realism in project ratings are imperative to a project's success. Throughout project
    implementation, the project was rated satisfactory and considered to be on track to achieve the project's
    development objective. Had the project team been more candid in its assessments and reporting,
    adjustments to the implementation arrangements and overall scope could have positively impacted
    project progress.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
This ICR was found acceptable by the Borrower and the cofinancier (UNICEF). Their joint report is
included in Section 10.

(b) Cofinanciers:
See section 9 (a) above.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

                                         REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                   HIGHER COUNCIL FOR MOTHERHOOD AND CHILDHOOD


                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
                                                   for the

                                  CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CDP-ICR Cr. 3326-YEM

                                               March, 2006

1. DESCRIPTION AND PROJECT START-UP

1.1.     Historic Context

Political, Economic and Social Context: Modern Yemen became a nation in 1990, when two previously
hostile neighbors (South Yemen and North Yemen), united under one flag. Yemen is one of the poorest of
the MENA countries. With a population growth rate of 3.7 percent, Yemen is struggling to provide basic



                                                    - 15 -

services to its burgeoning numbers of children under age 15. To attack these challenges, the Child
Development Project (CDP) was developed as a joint initiative involving a unique partnership between the
Government of Yemen, the World Bank and UNICEF. The CDP operates in 30 underserved rural districts
in 9 governorates in Yemen. The districts were selected based on the following criteria:
- The area is underserved in relation to education, health and water services.
- High density of population (more than 20,000 people).
- The basic level of infrastructure is already in place.
- The districts in each governorate are clustered together to ensure effective communication.

Main Issues: Key issues identified at the time of project preparation were:

    Sector Issues:
        High infant and child mortality, low access to and poor quality of health services, and lack of
awareness of household health issues among the population.
        Widespread malnutrition among children, including micronutrient deficiencies, caused by infectious
diseases, lack of nutritional knowledge, improper feeding practices, and, in some cases, lack of food in the
household.
        Enrollment and retention rates are poor at the basic education level, especially for girls.
Contributing factors include poor condition of infrastructure, lack of latrines for girls, costs to parents, lack
of female teachers and lack of textbooks.
        Young children's educability is likely to be low, given high malnutrition rates and low fostering of
cognitive development.

    Management, Financing and Service Delivery Issues:
        Health and Education Ministries are centralized in most functions.
        Public spending in the health and education sectors is neither efficient nor sufficient.
        Health and Education Ministries have focused more on the supply of, not the demand for, services.
        Coordination of health and education sub-national programs, information sharing and monitoring
of children's well-being is lacking.

Institutional Framework: The CDP was a jointly financed partnership, initiated in 2001 and completed in
2005, between the IDA, UNICEF and the GOY. The project was designed to build on the comparative
advantage of each partner in order to maximize the benefits of the project while minimizing its costs. The
HCMC, which represented the government, provided the necessary administrative support. The World
Bank has strong links to the central government and a macroeconomic perspective; while UNICEF has a
strong field presence in the country over many years, with the correct mandate and the capacity to mobilize
technical support and specialist expertise. The CDP represented a complex, challenging and innovative
management model both operationally and administratively. It was implemented as a multi-sectoral
program involving partners with differing implementation backgrounds and cultures. An integrated area
based approach was used, since greater impact and sustainability can be expected when education, health
and water interventions are planned in a coordinated way within each community and implemented in full
partnership with the local community.

Three sectoral ministries (Education, Public Health and Water) worked in collaboration with UNICEF to
implement the project. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was established in the Higher Council for
Motherhood and Childhood (HCMC), sitting outside the ministries and under the Office of the Prime
Minister, in order to coordinate the inputs of all implementing partners, and to oversee procurement and
financial management. The implementation of the project was coordinated at the national level by a
Steering Committee which was responsible for all substantive and financial decisions. Specifically, the role


                                                     - 16 -

of the Steering Commit was to approve annual plans presented by UNICEF and the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU); assess project progress and address broad implementation problems. The SC was chaired by
the Secretary General of the HCMC and included the Deputy Ministers of Health, Education, Local
Administration, Information, Planning, Finance and Social Affairs. The Consultative Group of the
Steering Committee was chaired by the Minister of Social Affairs and Labor. The SC met once a year to
approve the annual plan and twice a year to review project progress. The Ministry of Planning and Local
Cooperation participated in supervisory missions and preparation of annual budgets, supervised
preparation of project documents, signed agreements and, together with the Ministry of Finance, approved
applications for disbursement.

At the district and community levels, Local Councils (LC) and community leaders were involved in setting
priorities in terms of needed services, and monitoring each step during project implementation. The
community readiness component included a routine planning process to prepare the communities and local
administrations to assess priorities and plan for the needs of their communities. This component was
designed as a contribution to the implementation of Yemen's decentralization policy.

The project relied on government financial support and communities' involvement for its day-to-day
operation. Two independent legal agreements were signed by the Government of Yemen to fund the project,
the Development Cooperation Agreement (DCA) with IDA and the Cooperative Agreement for Project
Assistance (CAPA) with UNICEF. The project's total funding, available over the 5 years, was as follows:
IDA credit 28.86 M USD; UNICEF 12.41 M USD; Government budget 2.40 M USD; Local communities
1.6 M USD.

1.2.     Project Objectives:

Project Development Objective: To assist the GOY in the implementation of policies and strategies for
improving the health and nutritional status of children and the educational status of girls.

The long-term goal of the CDP was to improve the health and nutritional status of Yemeni children through
the delivery of a package of services in an integrated manner, including:
-        Improving the health and nutrition of children under five years old
-        Improving the educational status of girls in primary schools
-        Improving the infrastructure for education, health, safe water supply, nutrition and early childhood
development
-        Contributing to the Yemen Poverty Reduction Strategy
The project also aimed to strengthen the sub-national and, where needed, national institutions that plan,
implement and monitor services for vulnerable children.

1.3.     Objectives and Expected Outputs of Each Component

Summary Indicators: 1) Reduction of under-age-five mortality at least 10 percent faster in intervention
areas than in comparable rural, non-intervention areas, 2) Reduction of severe malnutrition (wasting) of
children under age five in intervention areas by at least 20 percent between baseline survey and impact
survey, 3) Decrease the ratio of boys to girls enrolled in grade six in intervention areas by at least 15
percent by 2005, and 4) Pilot Indicator: Improve girl's learning achievement scores, and reach at least
satisfactory levels, by the fifth year of the project.

Impact Indicators:
1)       Proportion of children under age 5 had diarrhea, ARI and fever 2) Net enrollment rate of girls in


                                                      - 17 -

primary education 3) Proportion of households with access to improved drinking water 4) Immunization
coverage (DPT, Polio, Measles) 5) Adult literacy 6) Proportion of women 15-49 who had qualified
Antenatal Care 7) Proportion of women exclusively breastfeeding for 6 months 8) Proportion of women
15-49 who had qualified delivery care 9) Proportion of women 15-49 with obstetric emergency seeking
care

1.4.    Organization and Project Implementation in Each Ministry: see 3.2 below

II PROJECT PREPARATION, IMPLEMENTATION AND IMPACT

2.1.     Evaluation of Project Preparation

Preparation of the project was led by the World Bank but guided by an intersectoral design committee that
included UNICEF, representatives of the GOY Ministries of Education and Public Health, and by
representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation. The
issues addressed by the CDP are relevant to Yemen's needs and in line with government's expressed
objectives and donors' joint efforts. The CDP was, however, a highly complex partnership between three
organizations: the IDA, UNICEF and the GOY. Although a risk analysis was conducted, evaluators have
concluded that a number of key risks were underestimated. These include the institutional limitations at the
sub-national level and the slow pace of decentralization; the lack of history of inter-sectoral collaboration;
the cumbersome and time-consuming character of the three-part management system (including three
separate procedures for procurement); and the fact that some ministries were not fully committed to the
CDP concept and approach (e.g. Civil Service). Evaluators also noted that expansion of the original
project area was scheduled too early, before initial achievements could be consolidated.

In addition, there are concerns about the feasibility and usefulness of the project design. Some of the
objectives and summary indicators  such as reductions in infant mortality rates -- were unfeasible and
unachievable given the limited time and resources available to the CDP. In the view of government, the
PAD was not sufficiently clear or explicit on the role of the HCMC, its relationship to the Steering
Committee, and on leadership and chains of command more generally. The PCU was not able to play a
clear leadership role because, until the final year of the project, it had no role in coordinating
implementation at the field level, no field presence, and its staff received minimal capacity-building.
Durable structures for coordination, mobilization and project leadership were not planned at the community
level. Although sectoral committees (Water, PTA, etc.) were planned and organized, no oversight bodies
for community planning, monitoring, mobilization and inter-sectoral integration were included in the
design. Because the design did not establish leadership structures that would continue, either at the
national or community levels, the sustainability of improvements introduced by the CDP has been
questioned. In addition, the project period of five years was too brief to achieve full impact. By their
nature, sustainable community development programs must lay an extensive early groundwork of
organizing, training, mobilization and participatory planning; and therefore they show few concrete
achievements in their early phases. A longer project period (e.g. 8 years) would have provided a higher
return on the project's initial investment in capacity building, networking and community mobilization.

Lessons Learned: Project Preparation: (1) The complexity of parallel and, at times, conflicting
management systems undermined project efficiency by introducing delays and confusion among both the
partners and the beneficiaries. In complex multi-partner projects, financial, procurement and reporting
procedures should be streamlined and made congruent to the extent possible. (2) To maximize
sustainability and inter-sectoral integration, it is critical to establish strong and capable institutions at the
central and community levels. (3) Before implementation begins, projects should lay a solid early


                                                        - 18 -

groundwork of participatory planning, training field staff and counterparts, and mobilizing communities
and local government to assume ownership of project activities. The project period should then be long
enough to fully realize the returns on this early investment.

2.2.     Main Outputs and Outcomes of Each Project Component

Component 1: Community Readiness: The Community Readiness Component fell short of expectations
with regard to participatory planning and institution building, but some effective social mobilization was
achieved. The July 2005 Assessment of Child Development Project, Yemen Final Report notes that the
capacity of local government to contribute to participatory planning was not adequately built. Very little
training in participatory planning took place at the village level; and participation in annual planning
exercises may be insufficient to generate a sense of ownership in communities. The evaluators found no
evidence that the AAA processes, specified in the PAD as a means through which communities take
ownership of project activities, had actually been implemented. This component did, however, succeed in
building the skills of local government service management teams (DMT, DHMT, Local Councils), and in
linking them to communities. It also organized and trained community volunteer committees to oversee
community contributions to each project component. Overall, this component achieved the following
outputs:
        Local Councils have been trained in all project districts in community needs assessment and basic
financial management.
        Through collaboration with the National Centre for Health Education, 610 community
communicators were trained and mobilized for health education.
        446 Parent-Teacher Associations have been organized to support CDP implementation in their
respective schools. PTAs reduce the burden on the MOE by hiring contractors, monitoring school
construction and arranging maintenance.
        125 Water Management Committees have been established and trained to collect and manage
funds, keep accounts, and operate and maintain the community water systems established by the CDP.
        1493 Women Volunteers were trained to develop social mobilization networks.

Component 2: Health Activity: According to evaluators, the CDP has achieved its objectives for the health
component to a limited extent. The quantitative impact assessment compared baseline and 2005 Household
Budget Survey results for CDP and non-CDP areas, in order to assess achievement of nine impact
indicators (section 1.3). The indications of positive impact were as follows:
        Immunization rates for DPT and measles had improved in CDP areas significantly more than in
non-CDP areas.
        The proportion of women aged 15-49 who had qualified delivery care during childbirth had
increased significantly faster in CDP than non-CDP areas.

Five additional health indicators were examined  the proportion of children who had diarrhea, ARI, or
fever; the proportion of women 15-49 who had qualified antenatal care; and the proportion of women 15-49
with obstetric emergency seeking care  and none showed measurable positive impact for the CDP areas,
in comparisons with non-CDP areas. Nevertheless, the CDP improved health service delivery and achieved
significant outputs in its target districts. Two hundred and sixty District Health Management Teams
(DHMTs) were trained to plan and manage health services for their districts. Forty-one health facilities
were constructed, as planned, and 17 were rehabilitated (17 planned). A total of 2768 EPI workers were
trained, exceeding the planned 2014. IMCI was not government policy at the time of project design, and so
no targets were established. However, 707 paramedics and 107 physicians were trained in the IMCI
protocol by the CDP; and 610 IMCI Communicators were trained to improve IMCI Key Family Practices.
Eight district obstetric centers were upgraded and their staff retrained, and 688 health care providers were


                                                     - 19 -

trained in emergency obstetric care. However, some of the new facilities have no staff and are closed; some
lack essential IMCI drugs, and many fully staffed facilities are under-utilized by the public. The
community sensitization sub-component was late in starting, and so was unable to show clear results in
terms of improving demand for and uptake of health services.

Component 3: Nutrition Activity (Community-Based Nutrition): Evaluators found it difficult to judge the
impact of the Community Based Nutrition component, since they did not find sufficient data for evaluation
of the project's impact on children <3. No nutrition indicators were included in the quantitative
comparison between the baseline and Household Budget Survey 2005; however, the July 2005 Assessment
Report judged achievements at the output level to have been good for this component. The CDP trained
509 community nutrition volunteers, and 136 received refresher training. These volunteers, who implement
the growth monitoring of 900-1,000 children per year, are observed to be enthusiastic and committed. The
project also purchased 15 million doses of iron supplements in 2001 and donated them to the MOH for
dissemination.

Component 4: Education Activity: Only one of the program's indicators for the education component was
analyzed during the quantitative impact assessment. The net enrollment rate of girls in primary education
was found to have increased in CDP areas since the baseline (from 38 percent to 98 percent), but this rate
of increase was not significantly greater than in non-CDP areas (36 percent-94 percent). 2005 figures
derived from the Household Budget Survey as reported in the Impact Assessment of the Child Development
Project CMT House Dec. 2005. The accuracy of these figures has come under question. The quantitative
analysis, therefore, was unable to establish that CDP was the factor that improved girls' enrollment rates.
As a means of encouraging female enrollments, the CDP has provided initial training to a total of 5140
female teachers. This is only 49 percent of the number planned, however, and the number actually trained
declined seriously with each year of the project (from 1612 in year 1 to 496 in year 2004-5). Overall, the
proportion teachers who were female declined rather than increased during the project period. This was not
due to any shortcoming in the CDP, but was attributable to government civil service policy, which limited
the MOE's low ability to allocate posts for and recruit female teachers. The number of supervisors trained
was 225, while only 170 were planned. The CDP has been faulted for failing to evaluate the quality of
teacher training, but there is anecdotal evidence that CDP's initial training has improved the teaching of
teachers with little education or prior training.

The CDP has made significant achievements in its classroom construction subcomponent. A total of 467
classrooms were constructed, which substantially exceeded the goal of 210. Implementation virtually
halted during 2004, however, when the MOE began requiring a more complex school design than the
project was prepared to implement.
The textbook distribution subcomponent has also been generally successful. Six textbook warehouses have
been constructed or rehabilitated out of 7 planned, and 5930 schools were provided with textbooks.
Computerized management of warehouse stock was delayed, however, because requests to the IDA for
reallocation of funds to computers were not answered promptly. Similarly, the IDA was reportedly slow to
answer a request for reallocation of funds from construction of warehouses to equipment (fork-lifts); which
delayed this component.

Component 5: Pilot Early Childhood Development: The ECD Component began implementation only in
mid-2004. An assessment of its outcomes or impact would therefore be premature, but it is notable that
this component began to achieve positive results in the short period it was in operation. Achievements and
outputs include:
        25 ECD master trainers were trained through collaboration with the University of Victoria, and 16
ECD teachers received on-line training.


                                                    - 20 -

        An ECD Resource Center was established and equipped at the HCMC in Sana'a.
        An ECD Communication Package has been developed and used to sensitize about 70 persons,
including governate level health and education personnel, to ECD issues.
        Two applied research studies (on child-rearing and kindergartens) were conducted.

Component 6: Water and Sanitation Activity: Initially conceived as a subcomponent of health, W&S
activities emerged as a separate activity after implementation began. The project was successful in
establishing water systems at 69 sites (96 handpumps in all) through a partnership with governate- and
district-level GARWP officials and engineers. These water schemes benefit 231,441 inhabitants of target
communities. The project has implemented a mix of technologies ranging from small hand pumps for small
populations to complex motorized schemes that benefit entire subdistricts. For each CDP water system, a
Water Committee was selected by beneficiary communities and trained by the CDP in water management,
operation and maintenance of the system. The Committees collect user fees from community members
benefiting from the system, and manage the funds for future repairs and maintenance. The CDP also
established nine solar pumps and 16 rainwater harvesting schemes, and provided training for GARWP
engineers in computerized system design. Although the project clearly had success in improving access to
safe water in these communities, the planned sanitation component was unable to be implemented. Though
a set of standard designs was developed for latrine construction, hardware sanitation inputs were not
obtained during the life of the project. The CDP encountered difficulties in securing timely and reliable
services from contractors for civil works in these remote areas, and this slowed implementation of this
component.

2.3.     Project Coordination and Management

The CDP was guided by a Steering Committee whose tasks included representing the GOY, monitoring
policy implementation, review and approval of plans and budgets, securing counterpart funding,
submission of Project Management Reports (PMRs) and audit reports to the IDA, review of audits and
evaluation of the PCU and UNICEF. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was responsible for
procurement and financial management, presentation of annual plans, coordination with sectoral ministries
and other partners, and oversight of project implementation. The technical assistant, UNICEF, shared
responsibility for implementation  including preparation of annual plans, scheduling of activities,
monitoring and supervision, design and organization of training programs -- with the sectoral ministries. In
addition, UNICEF was tasked with providing technical support to the PCU, coordinating with sectoral
ministries, procurement of technical assistance, procurement of vaccines, ORS, etc., preparation of
progress reports, monitoring expenditures and disbursements and, with the PCU, keeping project accounts.
In addition to the complex structure of the CDP, as described above, a number of issues emerged with
respect to project coordination and management. The roles of the Steering Committee, PCU and UNICEF
were overlapping in some areas, and explicit chains of command and a clear division of labor were not
established in the PAD. In the view of government, the capabilities of HCMC staff assigned to the project
should have been expanded through training in monitoring, planning, and other aspects of implementation,
in order to prepare them to perform the PCU role. In addition, the project planning documents did not
specify a field presence for the PCU, and so there were no government representatives in CDP field offices
until after the mid-term review had pointed out this shortcoming. As a result of this, plus the fact that they
received reports only quarterly, PCU staff felt they lacked timely information on the progress of and
developments within the project.

2.4.     Project Impact in the Development of Education and Health Policies

In the view of the Deputy Ministers for Health and Education, the CDP has had areas of impact upon


                                                     - 21 -

government policies in these two sectors. First, the project can be credited with having mobilized resources
in support of key national strategies. Second, some CDP curricula, protocols and activities have been
adopted and expanded by the GOY. Examples include the pilot implementation of the Integrated
Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI) by the CDP in 30 districts. The Ministry of Public Health
learned from and expanded this initiative to 86 districts thus far. The CDP's training curricula for building
the capacities of the District Health Management Teams (DHMTs) has also been adopted by government.
In the education sector, the PTAs organized by CDP brought the link between availability of female
teachers and increasing enrollment of girl students to the attention of the Ministry.

III.     ASSESSMENT OF THE WORLD BANK, BORROWER AND TECHNICAL
ASSISTANT'S PERFORMANCE

3.1.     Assessment of Bank Performance During Implementation

The World Bank's primary roles during project implementation were oversight, supervision and
monitoring. Joint World Bank/GOY supervisory missions were carried out, as scheduled, every quarter
during the life of the project. Most of the supervisory teams, in addition to GOY personnel, were
comprised of outside consultants with expertise in either health, education, or water and sanitation; and
these missions generally addressed only the relevant sector. As a result, activities in any given sector
received supervision considerably less often than quarterly supervision missions would suggest.
Counterparts perceived a lack of continuity in the fact that each mission was differently staffed. Since the
various consultants had differing views and expectations, the project was chasing a moving target
throughout. An extensive intersectoral Mid-Term Review was also executed by the IDA. The Mid-Term
Review raised key issues in the context of each sector and for project management more generally, and it
developed a feasible and appropriate series of recommendations, most of which were implemented in the
second half of the project (e.g. initiation of a field presence for the PCU).

Issues that have been raised with respect to the World Bank's performance include the fact that initial
support for the CDP fluctuated considerably over the life of the project, primarily due to staff turn-over.
The CDP had three different local Task Managers from design to evaluation. Since the implementation
team was not present during design, it was not always fully supportive of the project's approach. What is
more, the CDP was weakened by the transfer of staff from CDP to other WB projects during the
implementation period. Consultant supervisory teams had been recruited by WB Headquarters, not by the
local field office, and they often had too little familiarity with, or briefing on, the specific conditions and
constraints that characterize Yemen. The most significant problem encountered by the implementing
partners, however, was the lack of flexibility in IDA procedures and operations. Several significant
developments during the life of the project (including a national outbreak of polio, and the GOY's embrace
of the IMCI protocol), required changes in budget allocations and schedules. Implementation of the new
activities and procurements were delayed by slow processing and response to requests for re-allocations
that had been presented to the IDA.

Lessons Learned: Performance of the World Bank: (1) Since conditions and policies can change
significantly during implementation, flexibility of procedures (such as re-allocations and rescheduling)
should be maximized. (2) Supervisory missions should be liked more closely with the WB field office in
country; for drafting terms of reference, orientation and briefing of the team, review of results, and
feedback before finalization of reports. (3) Consistent support from Task Managers for the project's
concept and approach is a requirement for success.

3.2.     Assessment of Borrower Performance During Implementation


                                                       - 22 -

The relevant actors within the GOY during project implementation were the Steering Committee, the
HCMC/PCU and the national and sub-national sectoral ministries. Due to the complex nature of the
project and its proliferation of components and partners, the Steering Committee was preoccupied with
problem-solving and negotiation of difficulties as they arose. It performed this function effectively, in part
due to strong leadership. The HCMC performed its financial management role successfully, but the PCU
was limited in its ability to execute its role in monitoring or implementation due to a number of constraints.
First, its personnel were given no training in project implementation or monitoring. Second, the CDP
Project Manager was not full-time, and suffered time constraints due to the fact that she also served as the
General Secretary to the HCMC. Third, no personnel specifically dedicated to monitoring, evaluation or
data management had been planned for the PCU. Fourth, the HCMC/PCU did not receive timely
information on progress and developments within the project. Instead, reports were received from UNICEF
only after the end of each quarter. Quarterly reports did not provide the up-to-date information that the
PCU required to respond to events as they unfolded.

The performance of the national and sub-national sectoral ministries varied, in part because not all
ministries were fully supportive of the CDP concept and approach, and in part as a result of ministries'
differing progress in implementing the government-mandated decentralization initiative. Decentralization is
simpler and quicker to achieve in some sectors, such as education, than in others  many element of the
health sector, for example, rely on a continuous stream of inputs (drugs, medical supplies, diagnosis and
treatment protocols) from a central source. The education sector, therefore, has made more rapid progress
in decentralizing planning, decision-making and implementation to the governate and district levels. Since
this is the level wherein the CDP operates, the project has found it easier to work collaboratively with those
ministries that have achieved the greatest degree of decentralization. A final issue is that infrastructure
provided by the CDP could not improve service delivery in cases where sectoral ministries could not assign
appropriate personnel or supply the facility with essential drugs. The source of these problems did not
always lie with the sectoral ministries however. The PCU had detected shortfalls but it had no influence on
the responsible ministries.

Lessons Learned: Borrower: (1) Projects aimed at improving service delivery should devote as much
attention to human resource and supply issues as to infrastructure and equipment. (2) A community-based
or locally based project cannot succeed in a highly centralized bureaucratic structure; and so project
effectiveness is to some extent contingent on the successful implementation of decentralization policies.

3.3.      Assessment of the Performance of Technical Assistant (UNICEF):

As the primary technical assistant and partner in implementation, UNICEF was effective in collaborating
with sectoral ministries to achieve the wide array of outputs described in section 2.2. In addition, UNICEF
provided tangible support to the GOY in its decentralization agenda by strengthening District Management
Teams and Local Councils in 30 districts, training them to assess community needs, manage budgets and
interface with community initiatives; and also by initiating annual review and planning exercises. These
planning meetings were held at the governate level, but included district- and community-level
participation. In so doing, UNICEF carried out a pilot decentralization initiative; putting government
guidelines into practice in its target areas. Overall, it can be said that UNICEF contributed significantly to
the achievement of the Project Development Objective, Section 1.2.

Evaluators have, however, raised issues concerning UNICEF's performance. First, UNICEF had no
designated Monitoring and Evaluation Officer before 2004, and so there was no systematic and integrated
project monitoring and information collection system in place until the final year of implementation. It was


                                                      - 23 -

therefore difficult for WB supervisory missions and for final evaluators to assess the degree to which
expected outcomes and impacts were achieved. What is more, gaps in services or instances of poor quality
of services could not be identified; and the availability of data for informed planning and decision-making
was erratic. Second, as noted above, community ownership was not built before implementation began, as
called for in the PAD (i.e. AAA methods). Instead, community committees and volunteers "learned by
doing." While this approach proved adequate during implementation, it is unclear whether it will prove
sustainable after UNICEF withdraws support.

Lessons Learned: Technical Assistant: (1) In order to monitor progress and test effectiveness of various
components, a unified information system that is integrated with GOY systems should be developed before
implementation begins. (2) Building ownership of project activities among beneficiaries  such as by
establishing committees that can be trained to effectively mobilize and lead their communities and
coordinate all project inputs  is key to long-term sustainability at the local level.

3.4.     Assessments of institutions, firms and consultants

The project was able to make effective use of a wide variety of organizations and consultants both external
to and within Yemen. In particular, the ECD component achieved good results as a consequence of the
project's collaboration with the University of Victoria, Canada, which trained master trainers, developed
on-line courses for training of students in ECD, and provided technical assistance to other activities. The
CDP was also able to work effectively and synergistically with the National Centre for Health Education
(NCHE) on the development of manuals and guidelines for health communication, as well as on other
social mobilization activities. Evaluators noted that this collaboration was an efficient use of resources,
since the NCHE had its own resources, expertise and experience that offered an appropriate complement to
UNICEF's inputs.

Lessons Learned: Firms and Consultants:        Cost-effectiveness and synergies can be achieved by working
collaboratively with institutions that possess independent resources that can be used to leverage project
funds and inputs.

IV.      FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT

The planned total project costs as projected in the PAD were USD $45,300,000; of which $28,860,000
was to be provided by the IDA, $12,410,000 by UNICEF, 2,400,000 by government and $1,630,000 by
communities. The actual amount received by UNICEF from the IDA (including interest earned) was
$17,760,442 as of December 31, 2005. This amount accounts for 80.73 percent of the total IDA funds
that were to be implemented by UNICEF. The total expenditure by UNICEF against IDA funds of 31
December 2005 was $16,841,759.82. This is $95.24 percent of the total funds UNICEF received from the
IDA. IDA funds received by both UNICEF and the PCU totaled 21,250,197 out of a planned 22,714,394.
The total expenditure by the PCU and UNICEF, including funds provided by UNICEF, the GOY, and
beneficiaries, was $34,803,094.

The primary recurrent costs caused by the project were the salaries and operating expenses of the PCU and
its personnel. During the life of the project, a fund was established by government to cover the PCU's
administrative costs. Since the close of the project at the end of 2005, the GOY has suspended these
salaries and administrative funds. All staff other than the Child Development Project Manager have
consequently left the PCU.

Key financial issues include the fact that, although the CDP had the highest expenditure rates of any recent


                                                     - 24 -

IDA funded project in Yemen, expenditure rates were nevertheless lower than planned throughout the life of
the project, and particularly in its earlier stages. Underspending was caused by a number of constraints: 1)
due to delays in Parliamentary approval, the first PPA (project workplan) was approved six months late. 2)
workplans in subsequent years were 2-3 months late due to lengthy approval processes, 3) the salaries of
UNICEF's international staff were originally included in the budget for the five-year project, but were
removed from the budget after 2003, 4) difficulties in securing the services of contractors in remote areas
delayed the implementation of civil works, and 5) necessary re-allocations were slow to be approved by the
IDA. A large re-allocation exercise was required at the beginning of 2005 in order to: 1) reallocate funds
that had been dedicated to UNICEF expatriate salaries, and 2) correct inconsistencies in spending by
budget category. These inconsistencies had been caused primarily by the fact that annual workplans had
been prepared without explicit linkages to project documents. In addition, the financial management team
experienced some early confusion about the correct reference document. Initially, the team was referring to
the PAD budget, when the correct document was actually the DCA.

Lessons Learned: Financial: (1) When several levels of approval are required, work plans should be
developed well before the beginning of the implementation period, and (2) work plans should be prepared
with full participation by financial management personnel, to ensure consistency with project financial
documents.




                                                      - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Under age five mortality in pilot districts   Reduction of under age five at least 10%        Data not available at district level; under-five
(12/31/2001)                                  faster in intervention areas than in            mortality at national level reduced from 117
                                              comparable rural, non-intervention areas.       deaths per 1,000 live births in 2000 to 110
                                                                                              deaths per 1000 live births in 2004.**
Proportion of children wasted (moderate and Reduced by at least 20% between baseline          Data not available at district level; at the
severe) under age five in pilot districts     survey and impact survey                        national level, the proportion of children
(12/31/2001)                                                                                  wasted reduced from 12.9% in 1997 to
                                                                                              12.4% in 2003.
Ratio of girls to boys reaching grade 6 from  Increase in the ratio by at least 15%           Data not available at district level; net
grade 1 in pilot districts                                                                    enrollment of girls in primary education
                                                                                              increased by 157% in project intervention
                                                                                              areas; at nat'l level, gender disparity in
                                                                                              primary educ. enrolment was 0.64 in 2000
                                                                                              and 0.76 in 2004.
Proportion of girl students having acquired   80% of girls having acquired minimum levels Not available
minimum levels of learning                    of learning by the fifth year of the project in
                                              the intervention areas

** For additional proxy data comparing achievements in CDP and Non-CDP areas see Annex 8.
Output Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Role of Local Development Committees          LDCs meet regularly and take an active role     LDCs meet once a year for annual planning,
(LDCs) in pilot districts                     in various community activities                 committees dominated by local councils and
                                                                                              have low representation of local communities
Proportion of health facilities which have    All health facilities function in intervention  58 health facilities constructed or
required staff and equipment, receive         areas, have met the indicator                   rehabilitated, all have inadequate staffing and
required quantities of essential drugs and                                                    insufficient drug supply, and no
supplies, and adhere to agreed-upon opening                                                   improvements in opening hours achieved
hours in pilot districts
Proportion of mothers using ORS when their The proportion increased by 25%                    Data not available
children have diarrhea in pilot districts
15% of children <5 had diarrhea, given ORS The proportion increased by 25%                    Data not available
in 6 CDP governorates (2003)
DPT3/OVP3 vaccination coverage                The coverage increased by at least 15%          Immunization coverage for DPT3 in CDP
                                                                                              areas increased by 17%, coverage of OVP3
                                                                                              decreased by 1.7% (baseline coverage was
                                                                                              already high according to 1999 NPS at
                                                                                              97.6%).
Proportion of pregnant women who seek         The proportion increased by at least 50%        Proportion of women received qualified
Ante-natal care (ANC) from qualified service                                                  ante-natal care decreased by (- 88.6%)
providers
Improved sources of water for households      The proportion increased by 25%                 Access to safe drinking water increased by
                                                                                              17% in intervention areas.
Proportion of children by the end of 6 months The proportion increased to 60%                 Data not available
exclusively breast-fed
Proportion of trained female teachers in      15 percentage point increase                    No data available on increase. 9379 female
grades 1-6 at schools in intervention areas                                                   teachers received in-service training in CDP
                                                                                              and non-CDP areas
Proportion of students who receive textbooks 100% coverage                                    Data not available
in intervention areas
ECD models piloted and evaluated for impact 100% piloted and evaluated                        Model was not piloted
and sustainability in 6 districts

1End of project




                                                                   - 26 -

   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

   Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                   Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                                   Estimate         Estimate         Appraisal
                             Component                            US$ million       US$ million
    1. Community Readiness Program                                    1.33               1.28                89
    2. Health Activity                                               25.76              21.12                73
    3. Nutrition Activity                                             1.51               0.55                33
    4. Education Activity                                             9.12               7.71                78
    5. Pilot ECD Activity                                             0.52               0.24                43
    6. Project Management                                             2.26               3.31               127

    Total Baseline Cost                                              40.50              34.21
      Physical Contingencies                                          2.66
      Price Contingencies                                             2.14
                                Total Project Costs                  45.30              34.21
                         Total Financing Required                    45.30              34.21
   Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                              Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                    Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA          Govt.     CoF.     IDA        Govt.      CoF.     IDA    Govt.   CoF.
1. Community Readiness          1.30         0.00      0.00     0.78       0.00       0.50     60.0    0.0     0.0
Activities
2. Health Activities            22.60        2.50      4.10    15.54       0.14       5.44     68.8    5.6    132.7
3. Nutrition Activities         0.20         0.20      1.30     0.19       0.00       0.36     95.0    0.0     27.7
4. Education Activities         2.10         1.10      6.90     1.69       0.07       5.95     80.5    6.4     86.2
5. Pilot ECD Activities         0.30         0.10      0.20     0.23       0.00       0.01     76.7    0.0     5.0
6. Project Management           2.40         0.00      0.01     2.45       0.25       0.61     102.1   0.0    6100.0
TOTAL                           28.90        3.90     12.51    20.88       0.46      12.87     72.2    11.8   102.9

   Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding


   Allocation of Credit Proceeds (in US$ m equivalent)




                                                        - 27 -

                            Appraisal  Actual/Latest
                            Estimate    Estimate
1. Works                           4.22         4.26
2. Goods                          13.88         9.21
3. Consultants' services           3.54         1.82
4. Training                        1.77         1.56
5. Project Management,
including UNICEF fee               1.23         2.41
6. Operational support,
textbook distribution and
monitoring & evaluation            1.77         1.62
7. Unallocated                     2.45
            TOTAL CREDIT          28.86        20.88




                                         - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

ANNEX 3-A: ECONOMETRIC IMPACT EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT

The purpose of this section is to examine whether the Yemen CDP had an impact on its proposed
objectives, and, if there is the impact of the project, to quantify the impact that is attributable to the project.
If we can attribute an impact, we also contrast it with the cost paid for this impact, to have an indication of
cost-effectiveness.

This type of analysis typically requires an econometric regression analysis that carefully measures the
interventions under the project, such as remodeled classrooms, and water pumps; and the proposed outcome
variables, such as child health and girls' enrollment. The measurement should happen along two
dimensions: time (before and after the project implementation) and cross section (for beneficiaries and non
beneficiaries).

Further, as the beneficiaries of a project are often pre-selected, which might make them different from non
beneficiaries, we must control for the selection criteria, so that we don't measure an effect or a difference
that pre-existed, but only the difference that was due to the project. So it is crucial for impact analyses to
control for any other influencing factors, such as beneficiary-, or district-, or environmental characteristics,
to make sure we don't pick up their effect, but the effect of the project alone. Omission of this `ground rule'
will likely result in wrong conclusions, sometimes the very opposite of what really happened.

Our impact analysis measures outcomes and interventions, and all relevant control variables, to the full
extent that the data allows. In the following, we describe (1) the data used, (2) the econometric
methodology chosen, (3) the results of our analysis and (4) any differences with other existing evaluations .

(1) Data availability and quality

The econometric analysis used data mainly from three sources.
        National Poverty Phenomenon Survey 1999 (NPS) and Household Budget Survey 2005 (HBS);
        UNICEF Project Monitoring Matrices and Cost Breakdowns; and
        PMRs (Project Monitoring Reports).

Both NPS and HBS included questions on outcome variables, such as girls' enrollment in school, children's
health status and vaccination coverage, as well as socio-economic characteristics of households, such as
income and literacy of the members and existing in-house water and electricity connections, which were
pertinent to the scope of the CDP.

The data can in principle be used as a panel, by aggregating household information at the district level, and
matching the districts data for 1999 and 2005. The panel was prepared and merged in the Yemen country
office. The final panel made available to the evaluator allows measuring the net enrollment of girls 9-11
years, the vaccination coverage of under 5 year olds with BCG, Polio, Measles and DPT vaccines, and the
incidence of diarrhea and malaria in under 5 year olds. It did not allow us to measure maternal health
indicators.

The survey data had several limitations. The HBS included data only from 98 out of a total of 262 sampled
districts and data for some of the districts were merged due to the very small sample size of households1 .
Only a panel of 2 X 98 districts was available for the econometric analysis. This included 11 out of 30



                                                      - 29 -

CDP districts, among which 9 had a sub-component of water and sanitation. In addition to these
challenges, the Statistics Office in Yemen, the government agency who organized these household surveys,
itself considers that up to 30% of the 2005 data could be erroneous. Therefore, any results have to be read
in the light of these data.

We use UNICEF monitoring data for the magnitude and timing of interventions in districts. Currently
available data allows us to measure a) whether a district received the CDP intervention at all, b) how many
classrooms were refurbished and reconstructed, and c) implementation of investment in water and
sanitation and its size in the district. UNICEF monitoring data did not report health investments or
administrative investments such as capacity building, separately. In general, most of project
sub-components except the sub-component of water and sanitation are so highly correlated with each other,
that a separate evaluation is probably not advisable.

With UNICEF monitoring matrices and the expenditure sections of the PMRs, also, costs by project
intervention, per district and per beneficiary were calculated.

(2) Methodology

The methodology for the econometric analysis was modeled after the regression analysis in Attanasio and
Mesnard (2006)2, whose Difference-in-differences estimator reads:

Y = 1 +2dCDP       *2005+3dCDP +4d2005 +5X +                       (1)


Where   Y  is the outcome,   dCDP *2005
                                       an interaction term between treatment district and second year of data

(2005),   dCDP   a dummy for a treatment district,    d2005 a dummy for the second year and      X  a set of
controls. Equation (1) can be extended to account for water projects, by adding an additional 2nd year
interaction term for a district with also the sub-component of water and sanitation.

We attempt to control for the selection of treatment districts with: the percentage of households with an
existing water connection, percentage of the household with electricity access, average household income
and a fixed governorate effect, as districts within governorates are meant to coordinate in their project
implementation,

We are confident using a parametric approach as the samples can be shown to have practically no
common-support problems. Further, given the small overall sample size, a parametric approach is needed
to improve the efficiency of the estimation.




         1/       Data from two DCP districts were merged.
         2/       Attanasio O, Mesnard A.: The Impact of a Conditional Cash Transfer Programme on
Consumption in Colombia, EDePo, Institute of Fiscal Studies Working Paper, Report Summary Familias 02, April
2006




                                                     - 30 -

This econometric analysis relied on the assumption that no other policies have specifically targeted exactly
the CDP districts in the relevant time frame. Other policies could have been in place, as long as they were
evenly distributed across the country. For example, if there were national programs in place seeking
objectives similar to CDP, and these were applied in the entire territory.

The above-mentioned regression analysis was done for all outcome variables available from the data
sources (e.g. girl's enrollment, immunization coverage, incidence of diarrhea and percentage of children

under five affected by malaria.) The coefficient on     dCDP*2005
                                                                  returned the level of impact on respective
outcome variables produced by the CDP l.

(3) Results of the Analysis

Girl's enrollment

The available data supports strongly that the CDP as a whole had a significant positive impact on the
enrollment of girls aged 6-11. The analysis showed that adopting the CDP intervention improved the net
enrollment rate in the intervention districts approximately by 20%points.

Table 1:




Note: Dependent variable is net enrollment rate of 6-11 year old girls; regression is Tobit. * denotes
significance at the 10%, ** at the 5% and *** at the 1% level.

However, we cannot trace back this effect to the very specific components of the project. That means the
number of classrooms (as well as the number of classrooms per population) did not seem to matter. It can
also be shown that water projects did not have a separate influence, although some of the literature claims
that water access relieves girls of water-fetching and thereby frees them for school.

It is important to note that the 2nd year dummy is significantly different from zero. This means that the
country as a whole has improved significantly regarding girls' enrollment. But even so, the CDP seems to
have contributed to a rather remarkable improvement in girl's enrollment, on top of the national
improvement.




                                                     - 31 -

Immunization Coverage

By applying the same methodology, the impact on vaccination coverage among children was assessed. With
the available data, it was not possible to conclude that the CDP had remarkably improved the immunization
coverage of children under five. It is important to note that the econometric analysis did not compare the
impact of the CDP to a world "without any intervention", but rather measured the additional effect of the
CDP over existing nationwide programs.

It is important to note that the second year dummy is significantly different from zero. Yemen as a whole
seems to have made progress between 1999 and 2005. But the CDP could not significantly add to this
trend.


Table 2:




Note: Dependent variable is share of under-5-year-olds vaccinated with the respective vaccine. Regressions are
Tobit. * denotes significance at the 10%, ** at the 5% and *** at the 1% level.

Incidence of Diarrhea and Malaria among under-five-year-old children

Finally, we assess the impact of the CDP on the incidence of diarrhea among children under-five and
percentage of children under five affected by malaria. As shown in Table 3, while the situation in Yemen as
a whole seems to have worsened significantly, the CDP had not been able to stop this trend in the
intervention districts. There is a negative sign on the relevant coefficient for the impact on incidence of
diarrhea, but the coefficient is not significantly different from zero. This makes the impact of the CDP on
incidence of diarrhea inconclusive. Also, the CDP with the water sub-component did not prevent the
increase of prevalence of diarrhea.

Likewise, CDP could not stop the national worsening of the malaria situation. (See Table 3).




                                                      - 32 -

Table 3:




Note: Dependent variable is share of under-5-year-olds having had the illness in the last month. Regressions
are Tobit. * denotes significance at the 10%, ** at the 5% and *** at the 1% level.

(4) Differences with the CMT House Report

CMT House (CMT House: Impact Assessment of the Child Development Project, Yemen; December
2005) has preliminarily evaluated the CDP as a whole, and found improvements on fever incidence of
under-five year olds, coverage of DPT, Polio and Measles vaccination and qualified delivery care. They did
not find improvements on diarrhea incidence, girls' net enrollment and adult literacy.

Different factors are likely to explain the difference between CMT's results and ours.

First, while they are using data from the same source (Yemen national household surveys), discussions with
UNICEF staff suggested their process of preparation had been different. As we discussed above at length,
there are several concerns with the available data, which require careful handling, for example the
application of district codes. In the available data, a mis-interpretation of the household ID with respect to
districts could have easily led to a miscalculation of the impact.3 The CMT's report did not clarify their
data use to the level that would have allowed us to understand how they matched up data from various
districts.




           3/        The household ID in the data represents first 2 digits-governorate, second 3 digits-cluster, last 2
digits-household, and there is no indication of district. Therefore, the matching up of different district information, with the
data in its current format, needs to be done by hand.




                                                            - 33 -

Second, it was not clear from the CMT's preliminary report which districts they included as `non-CDP'.
As we discussed above, not all districts were represented in the second wave of data, so that the missing
districts should have been excluded from the first wave as well.

Third, CMT's conclusions do not control for the selection of the treatment districts. They report their
results as if the program had been allocated randomly across districts, which it had not. Rather, the
program targeted districts depending on their basic infrastructure such as electricity and water  which are
factors our analysis controls for.




                                                   - 34 -

ANNEX 3-B: COST PER BENEFICIARY AND COST EFFECTIVENESS

Given the difficulty of estimating monetary benefits for social sector projects, the Net Present Value and
Internal Rate of Return were not calculated for the CDP. However, we provide cost per beneficiary and
cost-effectiveness calculations, contrasting the `in-kind' impact of the project with its cost. We also
compare our results at completion with the predictions made at entry.


(1) Cost per beneficiary

At the time of appraisal, the yearly costs per beneficiary was predicted $53.8 for education and $24.9. All
in 2005 US$. for water, including direct costs for interventions, and estimated additional government
expenditures on teacher salaries and textbooks.

The available data did not allow us to replicate the exact calculation ex post. However, we can contrast the
predictions with both the total cost of direct project interventions until 2005 and the cost of interventions in
the last year of the project when all facilities can be assumed to be operative, as an approximation of yearly
running costs. We cannot include additional government expenditure due to data availability.We also do not
evaluate the Cost per beneficiary of the health interventions because beneficiary figures are not available.

The actual costs, whether for the project as a whole or the last year only are mostly well below the
predicted costs, see Table 1.

Table 1: Costs per beneficiary of major CDP interventions (USD)
                                                          Cost per          Cost per           Cost per
Intervention           Direct          Total cost        beneficiary       beneficiary      beneficiary per
                     Beneficiaries      end 2005        (2001-2005)        (2005 only)            year
                                                                                            (predicted
                                                                                             From PAD, in
                                                                                               USD 2005)
 Educate a girl in     359,136         10,688,871           29.8               14.8               53.8
  primary school          Female
                     enrolled and
                      benefiting
                       pupils.
  Provide clean        162,647         4,130,214            25.4               10.1               24.9
 water to a person
                    Population in
                     sub-districts
                       having
                      received a
                     functioning
                        water
                       scheme.
Source: UNICEF monitoring matrix, PMRs, author's calculations.

Note that the actual project expenditure for 2005 only includes the direct cost of the interventions,
excluding parallel operative and capital costs incurred by the government. These are however relevant for
the education expenditure and part of the difference between the actual cost ($14.8) and the predicted cost



                                                        - 35 -

($53.8) reflects this. However, given the size of the difference, it is likely that the project outperforms
predictions even after accounting for these additional cost items.

The actual annual unit cost performance of the water project of $10.1 also compared well with the
prediction of $24.9, although both are within the performance range of small-scale water schemes
documented for countries in South Asia, Central America and Sub-Saharan Africa               The author could
easily calculate the following figures from public data: Kerala: $12.11 per beneficiary, The Hindu, 11 October
2004; Nagaland: $36.96, Dept of Public Health and Engineering; Nepal: $23, WaterAid 2004; Nicaragua: $23.54
per beneficiary, joint Unicef/El Porvenir project, Blue Planet Run Foundation 2004/05; Mozambique: $13.50,
WaterAid 2004..


(2) Cost Effectiveness


Education

The PAD predicted girls' enrollment rate to rise at least 50%, based on a UNICEF pilot in Hodeidah. We
have conducted a full econometric impact evaluation (Annex 3-a) and found that CDP did increase girls'
enrollment by 20% points, compared to the rest of the country. While this stayed below the prediction made
in the PAD, it was a sizeable achievement. The impact of the CDP was not measured against "no
intervention" but against existing programs with national coverage. With a total project expenditure of
nearly $11 million on education, , this result compares very well internationally.

Health

The PAD further predicted that the health interventions under the CDP would result in a health
improvement (measurable in disability-adjusted-life-years). The data available allowed us to measure
whether immunization rates increased, and whether child health improved due to the CDP.

Unfortunately, from the available data, neither seemed to be the case. While there was a general trend in
Yemen towards higher immunization coverage, the CDP had not been able to significantly add to it.

At the same time, child health, measured as malaria and diarrhea incidence among under-5 year old,
worsened throughout Yemen between 1999 and 2005, and the CDP has not been able to slow this trend in
the intervention districts. With a total project expenditure of $ 17 million, the health interventions did not
appear cost-effective. However, our results have to be seen in the light of limited data (Data availability
and quality in Annex 3-a. ).

Water

The PAD expected a positive result from the water and sanitation schemes, particularly for diarrhea and
intestinal infections.

Unfortunately we could not confirm this from the Impact Evaluation either. The data allows us to separate
out the water component under the CDP, and Impact Evaluation showed no measurable effect on the
incidence of diarrhea among under-5 year old. Likewise, the percentage of children under five affected by
malaria did not decrease with the CDP water intervention. Again, while the result has to be read with
caution given the data, the total project expenditure for water of $4 million did not appear to be spent
cost-effectively.




                                                     - 36 -

Table 2: Cost effectiveness summary (USD)
Intervention                    Total expenditure by          Average project                 Estimated Impact at
                                intervention until end        expenditure for a               the district level
                                2005                          CDP district
                                                              Smallest two districts
                                                              merged.

Education                              10,688,871                        368,582             20ppt girls' enrollment
                                                                                             increase

Water                                   4,130,214                        165,209             Not significantly different
                                                                                             from zero

Health                                 17,250,442                       614,072              Not significantly different
                                                                                             from zero
Source: National Poverty Survey 1999, Houshold Budget Survey 2005, Unicef monitoring data, PMRs, author's calculations.




                                                               - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              10/1998                   8    Sector Director (1), HD
                                             Specialist (1), Education
                                             Specialist (1), Economist (1),
                                             Health Specialist (1),
                                             Implementation Specialist (1),
                                             Financial Management Specialist
                                             (1), Social and Economist
                                             Analysis Specialist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/14/1999


 Supervision

              11/2000                   3    Sector Manager (1), Sr.                S               S
                                             Operations Officer (1); Health
                                             Specialist (1)
              02/2001                   2    Sr. Operations Officer (1);            S               S
                                             Operations Analyst (1)
              09/2001                   3    Sector Manager (1), Sr.                S               S
                                             Operations Officer (1), Health
                                             Specialist (1)
              10/2001                   3    Sr. Operations Officer (1); Health     S               S
                                             Specialist (1); Operations
                                             Analyst (1)
              06/2002                   3    Sr. Operations Officer (1);            S               S
                                             Education Specialist (1); Social
                                             Protection Specialist (1)
              10/2003 (MTR)             9    Sr. Operations Officer (1); Health     S               S
                                             Specialist (2); Lawyer (1); Social
                                             Protection Specialist (1);
                                             Disbursement Officer (1);
                                             Disbursement Analyst (1);
                                             Implementation Specialist (1);
                                             Program Assistant (1)
              01/2004                        Field Supervision by TTL ( Sr.         S               S
                                             Operations Officer
              07/2004                        Field Supervision by TTL ( Sr.         S               S
                                             Operations Officer
              06/2005                   4    Operations Analyst (1); Health         S               S
                                             Specialist (1); Water Specialist
                                             (1); Program Assistant (1)
              12/2005                   8     Health Specialist (1); Operations     S               S
                                             Analyst (1); Water Specialist (1);



                                              - 38 -

                                            Program Assistant (1),
                                            Procurement Specialist (1),
                                            Financial Management Specialist
                                            (1), Education Specialist (1),
                                            Social Protection Specialist (1)

 ICR
               3/2006                 1     Operations Officer (ICR             S    S
                                            primary author)
               06/2006                      Final Project ISR                   U    U



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               30                              107
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    72                              255
  Supervision                              86                              202
  ICR                                      12                               16
  Total                                  200                               580




                                            - 39 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                            Rating

   Lending                                        HS      S      U       HU
   Supervision                                    HS      S      U       HU
   Overall                                        HS      S      U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                        Rating

   Preparation                                    HS      S      U       HU
   Government implementation performance          HS      S      U       HU
   Implementation agency performance              HS      S      U       HU
   Overall                                        HS      S      U       HU
Note: Where "Moderately Satisfactory" and "Moderately Unsatisfactory" ratings have been used in the ICR
text, these have been converted to the Unsatisfactory (U) rating on the four-point ICR scale.




                                                      - 41 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document, Child Development project, IDA, February 29, 2000
Mid-Term Review, Child development Project, IDA, October 28, 2003
Country Assistant Strategy, IBRD, August 2002
Mission Aide Memoires
Project Implementation Status and Results Reports
Assessment of Child Development Project, Yemen, HLSP S.L., July 2005
Impact Assessment of the Child development Project, CMY House, December 2005
Project Output Matrix, UNICEF, December 2005
Child Development Project, Baseline Survey Results, UNICEF, September 2003




                                                - 42 -

Additional Annex 8. Supplemental Data on Project Achievements



Outcome / Impact




                                                                                                           2000            2004
PDO 1      Under-five mortality (national level), per 1,000 live births                                      117            111

                                                                                                           1997            2003
PDO 2      Prevalence of wasting of children under five (national level), %                                 12.9            12.4
           Prevalence of wasting of children under five (rural area), %                                     13.7            13.1

                                                                                                           2000            2004
PDO 3      Gender disparity in primary education enrollment (national level)                                0.64            0.76

PDO4       Proportion of female students having aquired minumum levels of                                Not avaialable
           learning



Output

                                                                                                                   CDP area                                        Non-CDP area
                                                                                                           1999            2005 change                        1999           2005   change
PDO 1      Proportion of children under five who had diarrhoea, %                                            8.2            12.2      48.8%                      8.4            5.3  -36.9%
           Proportion of children under five who had ARI, %                                                      -              -              -                    -             -       -
           Proportion of children under five who had fever, %                                                8.9            10.2      14.6%                      9.1          10.9    19.8%
           Proportion of household with access to drinking water, %                                              -              -              -                    -             -       -
           Immunization coverage DPT, %                                                                     82.0            95.9      17.0%                   84.6            79.9    -5.6%
           Immunization coverage Polio, %                                                                   97.6            95.9      -1.7%                   97.6            79.9   -18.1%
           Immunization coverage Measles, %                                                                 68.3            95.9      40.4%                   71.5            79.9    11.7%
           Proportion of women 15-49 who had qualified delivery care, %                                     22.2            32.5      46.4%                   32.4            33.3     2.8%

PDO 2      Proportion of women who exclusively breastfed for 6 mos.                                              -              -              -                    -             -       -
           Proportion of women 15-49 who had qualified ANC, %                                               97.1            11.1     -88.6%                   97.4              3.6  -96.3%

PDO 3      Net enrollement rate of girls in primary education                                               38.2            98.4    157.6%                    35.8            93.9   162.3%



Source: UNICEF State of the World Children 2006, Yemen Demographic and Health Survey 1997, The Yemen Family Health Survey 2003, Yemen Ministry of Education, World Bank HNP Stats,
Yemen CDP Project Appraisal Document, Impact Assessment of the Child Development Project, Yemen




                                                                                                   - 43 -

- 44 -

