Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19461-RY
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.2 MILLION
(US$28.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 29, 2000
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YER)
US$1=YER 162
YER 1 = US$.00617
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABP           Area-Based Program
ARI           Acute Respiratory Infections
BRAC          Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee
CAPA          Cooperation Agreement for Project Assistance
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CDD           Childhood Diarrheal Disease
CRC           Convention on the Rights of the Child
DHMT          District Health Management Team
ECD           Early Child Development
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
EPI           Expanded Program of Immunization
GAREWS        General Authority for Rural Electrification & Water Supply
GTZ           Deutsche Gesellschaft Fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Technical Assistance)
HCMC          Higher Council for Motherhood and Childhood
IDA           International Development Association
IEC           Information Education Communication
IMCI          Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses
LACI          Loan Administration Change Initiative
LDC           Local Development Committee
MCH           Maternal and Child Health
MMR           Maternal Mortality Rate
MOE           Ministry of Education
MOPH          Ministry of Public Health
MOPD          Ministry of Planning and Development
MISA          Ministry of Insurance and Social Affairs
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
ORS           Oral Rehydration Solution
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PCU           Project Coordinating Unit
PEM           Protein Energy Malnutrition
SC            Steering Committee
IJNFPA        United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
WFP           World Food Program
Vice President:                  Kemal Dervis
Country Director:                Inder Sud
Sector Director:                 Jacques Baudouy
Sector Manager:                  Marlaine Lockheed
Task Team Leader:                Arun R. Joshi



Republic of Yemen
Child Development Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective ...............................................................    2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .......................  2
B. Strategic Context ...............................................................                                                                 2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ........................................  2
2.  Main  sector issues and  Government strategy  ..................                                      ...........................    3
3.  Sector issues to  be addressed  by  the project and  Strategic Choices   .......                                          ...........    5
C. Project Description Summary ...............................................................                                                       9
1. Project components ...............................................................                                                      9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ......................... 10
3.  Benefits and  target population ..............................................................  10
4.  Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ..........................................  11
D. Project Rationale ...............................................................                                                                16
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................... 16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ... 17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ...................................   18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .................................... 18
5. Value added  of Bank  support in this project ..............................................  18
E. Summary Project Analysis ...............................................................                                                         19
1. Economic ...............................................................   19
2. Financial ...............................................................                                                             19
3. Technical ...............................................................                                                             22
4. Institutional ...............................................................                                                         22
5. Social ...............................................................                                                                22
6.  Environmental assessment ...............................................................                                             22
7.  Participatory  approach ...............................................................                                              23
F.  Sustainability  and  Risks  ...................................                                      ............................   23
1. Sustainability ..........................................................                                                             23
2.  Critical risks  ..........................................................   24
3.  Possible controversial aspects   ..........................................................    24
G.  Main  Loan  Conditions  .............................                                       ..................................   25
H.  Readiness for Implementation   ...............................................................   25
I.   Compliance  with  Bank  Policies                         ..............................................................   25



Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary
Annex 2.  Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs by Project Component
Annex 4.  Economic Analysis
Annex 5.  Financial Summary
Annex 6.  Procurement Arrangements
Table A. 1 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table A.2 Procurement Plan
Table B.   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.   Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 6 (a). Project Financial Management Section
Annex 6 (b). LACI Certification
Annex 7.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.  Documents in the Project File
Annex 9.  Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10. Republic of Yemen at a Glance
Annex 11. Social Assessment - Lessons Learned
Map IBRD 30210



Republic of Yemen
Child Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Human De ielopment Sector
Date: February 29, 2000                         Task Team Leader: Arun R. Joshi
Country Director: Inder Sud                      Sector Manager: Marlaine Lockheed
Sector Director: Jacques Baudouy
Project ID: 50483    Sector: Health, Education  Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: SIL                         Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes [ ]  No
Project Financing Data    []      Loan  [X] Credit []  Guarantee [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$28.9 million equivalent/SDR 21.2 million
Proposed terms:             [I       Multicurrency [X] Single currency, specify
Grace period     10          [X]    Standard      []  Fixed        [   LIBOR-based
(years):                             Variable
Years to maturity:  40
Commitment fee:  0.50%
Service charge:    0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                           Local           Foreign              Total
Govemment                                          2.4                 -                2.4
Cofinanciers
IDA                                             7.9              21.0              28.9
UNICEF                                          4.2               8.2              12.4'
Communities                                     1.6                -                1.6
Total        16.1              29.2              45.3
Borrower: Republic of Yemen
Responsible agency: Higher Council for Motherhood and Childhood
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    2001      2002     2003       2004    2005    2006
Annual                                     3.9        6.4       7.5       5.8      4.0      1.3
Cumulative                                 3.9        10.3     17.8      23.6     27.6    28.9
Project implementation period: mid-2000 - mid-2005  Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/00  Expected closing date: 12/31/05
Contribution from UNICEF includes support from its general resources (US$5.0 million) and supplementary funding (about US$7.4
million) that it expects to raise over the five-year project period. UNICEF's current program is a three-year operation, and the
additional two years is a projection.



2
A.    Project Development Objective
1.    Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1)
To assist the Government of Yemen in the implementation of a coordinated area-based program (ABP)
for improving the health2 and nutritional status of children under five and the educational status of
girls in primary schools3 in districts that are currently under-served in the areas of health and
education.-
The area-based program (ABP) piloted in Yemen by UNICEF was deemed cost-effective in providing
basic health, water, and education services to disadvantaged children and their families.4 The Child
Development Project expects to improve upon and expand this ABP.
The project will be jointly financed by UNICEF and IDA. UNICEF, given its mandate on children's
issues, its strong field presence, and its practical knowledge of area-based operations, will be the lead
implementing agency and will support the Government on day-to-day project activities. Given its
complex inter-sectoral character, the project requires such support to achieve an effective level of inter-
ministerial coordination.
Key performance indicators include reduced child mortality, improved nutritional status of young
children, and increased enrollment and learning achievement of girls up to grade six.
B.    Strategic Context
1.     Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1)
CAS document number: 19073-YEM
CAS Board Date: May 25, 1999
Poverty reduction is the central goal of IDA operations in Yemen. To achieve this, IDA strategy in
Yemen focuses on four interdependent objectives: (i) creating a modern public administration; (ii)
attracting diversified, productive private investments; (iii) preventing an absolute shortage of fresh water;
and (iv) creating an early stream of social benefits in education, health, and other services most valued by
Yemenis. Activities associated with the fourth objective include education (particularly girls' education),
health (particularly maternal and child health), and community-level improvements that raise quality of
life in an immediate sense and also create external benefits relating to the other three objectives.
The project is fully consistent with the above-mentioned strategy and focuses on providing essential
health and education services in disadvantaged districts (in terms of poor child health and education
indicators) through innovative community-based interventions. The project aims to accomplish this by:
(i) engendering community engagement; (ii) building capacity at the sub-district, district, and governorate
levels to identify and address child health and education issues; (iii) establishing linkages among
communities, NGOs (where available), and Government at the sub-national level; and (iv) supporting
health, education, and water supply activities.
2 Includes water and sanitation interventions to improve health status of children and the educational status of girls.
3 Even though the formal "basic" schooling structure is from grades I through 9, the project will focus on the first
six years of schooling, given the fact that a large proportion of girls do not even enter school.
4 The Assessment Volume provides the evaluation of the Yemen ABP, which has been in operation since 1994. The
evaluation was carried out in August 1998. Summary of the evaluation is presented in Annex 1 1.



3
The project would benefit greatly from the decentralization law which has recently been passed, although
project implementation would not be contingent upon its immediate execution. Furthermore, the project
has coordinated with and is guided by the ongoing Public Expenditure Program, particularly with respect
to fiscal sustainability and efficiency issues in the health and education sectors.
The project's approach and scope fall within the Government reform strategies and policies in health and
education., The project aims to coordinate and develop linkages with related IDA and other donor-funded
projects to minimize duplication and engender synergy (see Annex 2 and Operations Manual for details).
2.    Main sector issues and Government strategy
Sector Issues: Health, Nutrition, and Education
The well-being indicators in the areas of health and education for children are lower in Yemen than in
other MENA countries and for similarly situated less-developed countries (LDC).
*  In health, infant and child mortality is high, between 83 and 110 per 1,000 live births, respectively.
The main contributing causes are: infectious childhood diseases such as diarrhea - mainly waterborne;
acute respiratory infections (ARI); malaria; vaccine-preventable diseases; high maternal mortality
(approximately 1000 per 100,000 live births); low access to and poor quality of basic health services;
and lack of awareness of household health issues among the population in general, particularly the
uneducated.
*  Malnutrition is widespread. At least 30 percent of Yemeni children are protein-energy malnourished.
In addition, micronutrient deficiencies (i.e., iodine, vitamin A, and iron) are also widespread. This
makes Yemen one of the most nutritionally-disadvantaged countries in the world. Some of the major
causes of malnutrition (besides the infectious diseases mentioned above) include lack of knowledge
about nutrients and improper feeding practices, lack of micronutrients and, in some instances, lack of
food in the household.
*  In education, enrollment and retention rates and quality are poor at the basic education level,
particularly for girls. According to the December 1997/98 census and the MOE statistics, 80 percent
of boys between ages 6 and 15 are in school. In comparison, only about 40 percent of girls ages 6 to
15 are in school. The rural and urban difference in enrollment rates is substantial. Some of the main
factors contributing to low enrollment and poor achievement of girls are: poor physical conditions of
schools, such as lack of latrines for girls; direct and opportunity costs for parents; lack of qualified
women teachers; and inadequate books, educational materials, and equipment in classrooms.
*  In addition, as some anecdotal evidence suggests, young children's educability is also likely to be
low, given the high levels of malnutrition and the low fostering of cognitive and language
development. However, this is an unexplored domain and would benefit from careful study.
The above-stated problems are further compounded by rapid population growth (3.7 percent) and a young
population composition (50 percent under age 15). The social assessment conducted for this project
confirms inadequate and poor quality health and education services in disadvantaged areas. Furthermore,
many respondents maintain that they have to sacrifice food, or even sell their assets, to pay for medical
care, children's education, and clean water.



4
Sector Issues: Management, Financing, and Service Delivery
In response to the poor status of health and education, the Government has focused on expanding access
to basic health and education services (see for example the National Five-Year Plan 1996-2001). But
while some progress has been made with respect to expansion of services in the last two decades (e.g.,
enrollment in basic education grew ten-fold between 1970 and 1994), these increases are dwarfed by the
increase in population, which is expected to double in twenty years unless effective family planning
measures are taken (Population Sector Report, 1997). Furthernore, the quality of these services has been
consistently low (Health and Education Strategy Notes, 1997) and is expected to be stretched further due
to population pressure. The following sector issues have been identified as key constraints to the
expansion of quality health and education services in Yemen:
*  Health and Education ministries are centralized in most functions. They have failed to: (a)
effectively assess needs and demands of beneficiaries; (b) foster community involvement for program
sustainability; and (c) improve quality of services through greater involvement of and supervision by
their sub-national offices. What finally reaches the poor, particularly children and women, in terms
of essential health and education services, therefore, is both inadequate and of poor quality.
* Public spending in the health and education sectors is not efficient. While public funding must
increase in health (in 1997, it was only 1.2 percent of the GDP and 3.1 percent of government
spending), resources in both the education and health sectors are not used optimally. For example,
while capital expenses are inadequate in both health and education (e.g., education capital
expenditure as a percentage of total government expenditures was only 1.5 percent in 1996), large
amounts of salaries continue to be allocated to "no show" teachers and health workers. Furthermore,
there is a great need to improve the budgetary and management functions to enhance efficiency.
* Health and Education ministries have focused more on the supply of not the demandfor, services.
The Government's centralized planning of services and supplies overlooks what is really required for
each community. For example, the Government prints textbooks for children based on population
numbers and each year sends the books to the governorates. There is no proper storage or efficient
distribution system for books, and a large proportion of books does not arrive to its targeted
beneficiaries; some of them can even be found in town on the black market. When the books do
arrive at their destination, however, they are generally not valued or taken care of, as they are, in
effect, considered free goods. A system in which schools order the textbooks needed and have
incentives to care for them would improve targeting and cost effectiveness.
* Coordination of health and education sub-national programs, information sharing, and
monitoring of children's well-being is lacking. The social sector ministries, including their sub-
national offices in the governorates and districts, are isolated from one another and do not interact,
even though their working in a coordinated manner (e.g., sharing information, joint program) in
specific geographic locations would generate synergy and increase cost effectiveness of inputs.
Central policy bodies such as the Higher Council for Motherhood and Childhood (HCMC),5 which
could play an important role in coordination, are technically and financially weak.
Current Government Strategy
The Government is strongly committed to achieving its targets in the human development sector, and it
has become aware of the need to change its strategic direction to achieve its goals. Both the Health and
Education ministries are exploring ways and are setting forth reform strategies which attempt to address
the management, financing, and service delivery-related issues mentioned above. IDA has been a partner
in this process and has been supporting the ministries in reforming its approaches for dealing with
difficult human development sector issues (see list below of formal and informal sector work carried out
by IDA within the last two years).
5 See Implementation Arrangements for the role of this Council in this project.



5
Two strategic themes that emerge from these sector reform strategies are: (i) reorientation of the
Government function from direct-service delivery to that of quality regulator, financier, supervisor, and
public information provider; and (ii) community and sub-national level-based approach for planning and
delivery of essential services in the health and education sectors. The Government's commitment to this
strategy is strong, as seen by its effort to decentralize many of its functions to the sub-national-level units.
In health, the Ministry has embarked on a major Health Sector Reform (HSR) program. The focus of the
HSR is on decentralization and management reform, including strengthening the district health system
with community participation schemes such as cost sharing for essential drugs. In education, the
emphasis of the ministry is on capacity building at the sub-national level. Also important to both sectors
is enhancing intersectoral cooperation.
The rationale for selecting these approaches is to address the sector constraints identified above.
Community-basedlNGO operations supported by the sub-national-level offices of the Government have
been shown to engender greater ownership of the services by the beneficiaries and to improve
sustainability, management, and quality of services.
With IDA support, the Government has been exploring various models that reflect its new role:
strengthening sub-national offices and engaging communities. In this context, IDA's strategy has been to
develop projects that support the Government's policy-making and regulatory role (e.g., the proposed
health project) and its collaboration with communities and NGOs (e.g., Social Fund). The Child
Development Project, while focusing on community engagement, also emphasizes the strengthening of
sub-national-and, where needed, national--institutions. Such a top-down-meets-boaom-up approach is
necessary to tackle the intractable child health and education problems facing the country.
Relevant IDA sector work:
*  Joint World Bank-UNICEF-Radda Bama Situation Analysis of Children and Women, 1999
*  Education Strategy Paper, 1999
*  Health Strategy Paper, 1999
*  World Bank Health and Education Public Expenditure Reviews, 1999
*  Agriculture Sector Note (1998)
*  Water Strategy (1997)
*  Population Sector Study (1997)
*  Health, Education and Gender Strategy Notes (1997)
*  Poverty Assessment (1996)
3.    Sector issues to be addressed by the project and Strategic choices
Strategic Choices
Two strategic choices have been made. They are:
(i) the use of a coordinated, community-oriented, area-based program (ABP) approach which has
already been piloted by UNICEF in Yemen, as opposed to a traditional top-down national operation. The
ABP strategy is a programming strategy that focuses on capacity building at the sub-national--and where
needed, national--level and service coverage for a geographically defined area (e.g., district). ABP is
community-based and emphasizes connectivity of basic services in the areas of health, nutrition, water
and sanitation, and basic education. The evaluation and cost-effectiveness analysis of two UNICEF ABPs



6
in Abyan and Ibb shows that the approach has been able to increase access to, improve quality of, and
build sustainable cost-sharing schemes in health and water sectors. The analysis also shows that the
approach has been able to increase access to and improve quality of schools 6
The evaluation found that most ABP interventions were successful. However, it recommended ways to
improve or fine-tune these programs for greater effectiveness and impact. Certain interventions that are
proposed in the Child Development Project--specifically, the district health system, IMCI, and Triple A-
have not yet been piloted by UNICEF. They have, however, been carefully designed with the support of
international experts, and UNICEF has already started implementing them in their current program. By
the time the project starts, UNICEF and its counterparts will have gained some experience with these new
approaches.
The area-based programs in this project will be carried out in the following nine govemorates: Sana'a,
Hodeidah, Hajjah, Ibb, Al-Dhale'e, Amaran, Abyan, Lahej, and Al-Mahrah. The main indicators used for
selecting these governorates were child mortality rates, primary school enrollment rate of girls,
population, and donor presence.  While whole govemorates will be the focus of some project
interventions such as immunizations and provision of oral rehydration salts, disadvantaged districts (about
30 in these governorates) will be selected for most project inputs.
Project interventions will be eased into the districts, with emphasis on community engagement and
capacity building on the one hand and assessing impact on the other. Project operations will start in 13
districts in Year 1. These are districts where UNICEF is already operating.  In addition, social
assessments have been conducted in five of them. During this year, the focus will be on expanding and
improving upon activities which UNICEF is already undertaking, and ensuring that the ABP interventions
are integrated and are of sufficient quality. In Year 2, the project will be expanded to 9 new districts, but
not all interventions will be implemented here. Rather, interventions will be chosen and implementation
paced according to the capacity of the communities. In Year 3, the final expansion to the last 8 districts
will take place, again at a pace suitable to the communities' absorption capacity. The actual number of
districts in which the project is implemented may be adjusted during project implementation. The
governorate and district selection methodology and the phase-in plan details are described in the
Operations Manual (also see target population for details on project inputs at the govemorate and district
levels); and
(ii) partnershiv with UNICEF to utilize its expertise and field experience during both preparation and
implementation of the project.
Together, these strategic choices are expected to address the issues of overcentralization, poor quality of
services, and lack of coordination among agencies in the following specific ways:
*   The ABP will be implemented at the community level and will emphasize connections to and
strengthening of the district-level and, when necessary, governorate offices;
*   In the identified districts, the ABP will seek to institute incentives (e.g., cost-sharing, where
feasible), as well as education programs for engendering ownership, accountability, and a more
rational distribution of supply of health and education services; and
*   Given its emphasis on specific geographic areas (districts), the ABP is expected to generate synergy
from its interventions in health, nutrition, water, and education. Sub-national- and central-level
capacity building for such coordination of services will also be carried out.
6 The ABP pilot programs of UNICEF in Yemen have been evaluated for impact, and the results are presented in the
Operations Manual; summary is presented in Annex 11.



7
Sector issues to be addressed by the Project7
The specific interventions that are proposed below are consistent with the Government's policy to
increase access to quality basic health (see Operations Manual for "CDP in the context of Yemen's Health
Sector Reform agenda"), nutrition, and education services in rural areas, while attempting to strengthen
the sub-national-level capacities for longer-term sustainability. Main sector issues to be addressed by the
project include:
*  Community Involvement Issues. To improve readiness of communities for the project inputs and to
build their capacity for identifying, planning and addressing their health and education needs, Local
Development Committees (LDC) will be identified/established and relevant training to key members
provided. Social mobilization and surveys for assessing project impact will be carried out in the
communities.
*  Poor Health Status. To address the major causes of high child mortality (see section B2), the
following activities are proposed:
>    to improve the district health system, a District Health Management Team (DHMT) will be
established in each district and relevant training provided. Essential packages of preventive
and curative services will be made available at the health units, health centers, and some
maternal and child health (MCH) referral facilities;
>    to address Acute Respiratory Infections (ARI) and other diseases such as diarrhea, measles,
and malaria, the Integrated Management of Childhood Diseases (IMCI) approach will be used
at the district health facilities and the community/household levels. The focus will be on
training health personnel in the districts to handle these diseases in an integrated manner,
providing equipment and supplies, and addressing these diseases at health facilities and the
community/household level. For diarrhea, a governorate-wide program will be supported,
with a focus on the provision of oral rehydration salts (ORS) and social marketing;
>    to reduce vaccine-preventable diseases, an immunization program will be supported for all
children in the nine governorates. The Hepatitis B vaccine will be introduced in a limited way
in the project districts;
>    to address infant (and maternal) mortality, a safe motherhood program will be supported with a
focus on outreach, education, referral to health facilities (pilot program), and the provision of
safe birthing and midwifery kits. A strong linkage will be developed with UNFPA, which has
a large reproductive health and family planning operation overlapping in 5 of the 9 project
governorates (see Annex 2 for details); and
>    to reduce water- and waste-borne diseases, community water and sanitation schemes for safe
water availability and waste disposal will be supported in the identified districts. The
approach will be consistent with the Water Policy of IDA and the Government, focusing on
community cost sharing for maintaining water systems. A strong linkage will be developed
with the proposed Water Supply and Sanitation Project (see Annex 2 for details).
* Malnutrition. To address protein energy malnutrition (PEM) and micro-nutrient deficiencies,
community/district-based nutrition activities will be supported, including growth monitoring and
rehabilitation, nutrition education, and counseling in the identified districts. Micro-nutrients (Vitamin
A, iron) will also be provided to children in the identified districts. Limited overlapping with the
World Food Program (WFP) is planned (see Annex 2 for details) for providing food to pregnant and
lactating mothers and malnourished children in 5 of the 9 project governorates.
7 See Annex 2 for details.



8
* Poor Education Status. To improve girls' enrollment, retention, and learning achievement in
primary schools, the following are proposed:
>  to increase the enrollment rates of girls, community schools are proposed in the identified
districts. Appropriate measures will be taken to ensure that schools meet the necessary physical
requirements, such as latrines for girls. The schools will be supervised by the district education
offices, which will also be strengthened. The quality of community schools will be enhanced
through the systematic involvement of teachers, parents, and community leaders;
>  to ensure the quality of (and attract girls to) community schools, the training of women teachers
will be supported; and
>  to improve quality of teaching in the area-based community schools, textbook availability will be
enhanced through support of the governorate textbook storage and distribution. A strengthened
textbooks storage and distribution system would also benefit communities outside the area-based
locations.
* Early Childhood Issues. To identify successful models for future expansion to improve the
educability of children in difficult circumstances, the project will support study of the current
conditions of child rearing and pilot early child development (ECD) interventions in Yemen.
Rationale for simultaneous provision of services in targeted locations
Area-based programs seek to coordinate interventions in several sectors to generate
synergies. Educating girls impacts the health status of both children and their
families. Providing accessible water schemes is not only an effective way to improve
the health status of children; it can also improve the educational status of girls8
Adequate nutrition in the early years is essential for children's proper brain
development and for their success at school. Finally, health interventions in general
are expected to positively impact a child's learning at school. These interventions,
when provided simultaneously in geographically-targeted areas, are expected to
improve the effectiveness of each intervention and to produce greater positive impact
on the lives of the poor.
ABP implementation can be complex but, in the context of this project, UNICEF will
support the Government at every stage, focusing on capacity building at all levels for
long-term  sustainability.  (See Implementation and Institutional Arrangements,
below.)
8 The Situation Analysis of Children and Women (1999) shows that, at the governorate levels, access to water is
very closely associated with girls' enrollment rates. In some areas, girls spend up to six hours each day fetching
water.



9
C. Project Description Summary
1.     Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
Cost                IDA-        % of     UNICEF
Component              Category     including    % of   financing     IDA-    financing
contingencies  Total   (US$m)    financing   ($ and %)
(US$m)
a. Community Readiness       Institution        1.4          3         1.3        95
Program: Improve community    Building
readiness for project inputs
through training in assessing
needs and planning and through
social mobilization.
b. Health Activity: Improve   Physical,         29.2        64       22.6         78        4.1
child health through a       Institution                                                   14%
strengthened district health  Building
system, IMCI (to address ARI
and other relevant diseases),
immunization, CDD, safe-
motherhood, and water and
sanitation schemes.
c. Nutrition Activity: Improve  Institution     1.7          4        0.2          9        1.3
child nutritional status through  Building                                                 73%
community nutrition activities
such as nutrition education and
counseling, growth monitoring
and rehabilitation, and
micro-nutrient supplementation.
d. Education Activity: Expand   Physical,       10.1        22        2.1         20        6.9
girls' access to quality primary   Institution                                             68%
education through innovative  Building
and effective community-based
schools; women teacher training
and textbook/educational
materials availability.
e. Pilot ECD Activity:       Institution        0.6          1        0.3         54        0.2
Improve educability of young  Building                                                     34%
children through pilot          Policy
community-based ECD models,
which will be carefully
evaluated for possible future
expansion.
f. Project Management:       Project            2.4          5        2.4        100       0.01
Direct costs of management of   Management                                                 0.6%
the project by Yemeni Council
for Motherhood and Childhood
and UNICEF.
TOTAL                                           45.3       100       28.9         64       12.4
27%



10
Area-Based Program
Sequencing of Operations in the Communities
(see Implementation Manual for details)
Li Local Development Committee (LDC) established in selected communities/uzlas
o . District health and education officers involved and "linkage"/support sought
ci Social and needs assessments conducted (NGOs' technical support sought for
conducting assessments)
o  Community participatory planning process and decisions on project inputs conducted
o  Local contributions, sub-national level support, and project inputs determined
o  Community action plans developed
Li Baseline survey conducted
o  Operations started
2.     Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
This project's key responsibility is not policy development, but rather to provide essential services to
disadvantaged communities. The health, education, and water policies, on which IDA and the
Government have been jointly working, guide the proposed interventions of this project. At a broad
level, however, the project is informed by and supports the key policy reforms of the Government,
including decentralization, and administrative and fiscal reforms. The project supports these reform
efforts from the 'bottom-up' through:
*   improving the capacity of sub-national-level offices to plan, supervise, and monitor operations
in the field;
*   engendering community  involvement to  improve ownership and sustainability (both
institutional and fiscal);
*   harmonizing demand and supply of essential services and reduce inefficiencies and wastage;
and
*   improving coordination of health and education services to generate synergy and greater impact
in targeted geographic locations.
3.     Benefits and target population
Benefits
The project's benefits include:
*   improved child health and nutrition status;
*   increased number (and proportion) of girls enrolled in and successfully completing grade 6;
*   improvement of the government health and education systems in the districts;
*   improved reproductive health and safer motherhood; and
*   increased capacity of the sub-national-level government, NGOs and communities to identify
problems, and participate in and contribute to programs in the human development sector,
particularly those pertaining to children's issues.



11
Target Population
Children under age 5 and girls of primary school age are the main target population for this project in the
30 target districts.  Some of the interventions are targeted to families in general in the 9 target
governorates [see below for those who will benefit from: (i) district-level interventions in the 30 districts;
and (ii) governorate-level interventions in the 9 governorates.]
(i) District-level target population
* The health and nutrition components (excluding immunization and provision of ORS) are targeted
to approximately 560,000 children under age 5, and 600,000 women of childbearing age in the 30
districts. Due to the strengthening of the district health system, many more will benefit from these
health interventions.
* The Community Schools Component annually targets approximately 90,000 girls age 6 to 11 who
are: (i) already attending school--by encouraging persistence until at least grade six; and (ii) those
who are not entering grade 1--by encouraging entry.
* The Water and Sanitation component is targeted to families in the 30 districts. Not all families will
be covered in the districts but, depending on the type of water and sanitation system used, between
150,000 and 3,000,000 people will be targeted.
(ii) Governorate-level target population
* The 2 governorate-level health interventions, EPI and the provision of ORS, are aimed at all
1,880,000 children under age five in the target govemorates.
* Improvements to govemorate-level textbook warehouses and distribution systems proposed under
the education component will help ensure that the 927,548 students presently enrolled in primary
education in the 9 governorates receive textbooks on time. Due to the systemization of the whole
textbook warehouse system, children in all grades will benefit.
* Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) programs in health, nutrition, education, and the
environment will target all families in the 9 project governorates (9 million people) through a
variety of mass media methods.
4.    Institutional and implementation arrangements
The following agencies/ministries will operate closely to implement the project: the Steering Committee
(SC) of the HCMC; Project Coordinating Unit (PCU); Ministries of Public Health and Education;
GAREWS; and UNICEF. The key responsibilities of these agencies/ministries are described below.
Details are presented in the Implementation Manual.
Project Oversight and Direction
Responsible agencies: (i) Higher Council for Motherhood and Childhood; and (ii) the Project Steering
Committee (SC).
The project will operate under the overall guidance and oversight of the Higher Council for Motherhood
and Childhood (HCMC). The Council was originally established in 1991 (as Yemeni Council for
Motherhood and Childhood) and has produced some policy and strategy papers and hosted national and
regional conferences on children's issues. Still, its operations have been limited, given moderate
resources and technical expertise. The Council is the key institution in Yemen responsible for the well-
being of children. The main functions of the Council has included the following:



12
Management Arrangements
| Prime Minister |
YCMC-Chairman|
Steering Committee Tasks                                       I
* Represent Government                                Higher Council for
for the Project                                 Motherhood & Childhood
* Monitor policy implementation                           (HCMC)
* Review & approve plans                             Members: Ministers
& budgets                                                 7
* Secure counterpart funding                        Steering Committee (SC)
* Review project progress                        Chair: Secretary General, YCMC
* Submit PMRs* and audit                Members: Relevant Deputy Ministers/Representatives
reports to IDA
* Appoint auditors                                  MOPH, MOE, MISA
* Review audits                                        and GAREWS
* Evaluate PCU & UNICEF
PCU Key Tasks                         Project Coordination     Support        UNICEF
- Present annual plans                    Unit (PCU))
* Help release of CF
e Manage the SA                         !
3 Invite bids - works/goods                      Governorate Area-Based Offices
3 Sign contracts                  I                            ..
v Monitor project progress
D Keep project accounts
* Consolidate PMRs              Govemorate             District Offices         Communities, Loc.
* Facilitate project auditing  Level Offices            DEOs, DHOs               Dev. Committees
* Coordinate with sector
ministries/ other relevant actors             UNICEF Key Tasks
* Overseeing the implementation of the EMP       * Provide technical support to the PCU
* Coordinate with sector ministries and other actors
Sector Minintry Tasks                             * Prepare annual plans
* Prepare annual plans                           * Plan & schedule project activities
* Plan and schedule project activities           * Prepare standard bidding documents
* Monitor and supervise project act.             * Procure & manage all TA services
* Ensure distribution-goods, ORS etc.            * Design & organize all training
* Design and organize training                   * Procure vaccines, ORS & accessories
* Provide required support to PCU and UNICEF     * Manage operational budgets
* Assign needed counterparts                     * Supervise execution of works and goods
contracts (through Area Offices)
Note:                                             * Prepare progress reports
* Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs) as           * Assist SC with policy implementation
required by the Loan Administration            * Monitor expenditures and disbursements
Change Initiative (LACI)                       * Keep project accounts (with PCU)



13
* to advocate for children's concerns at the national level;
* to develop national policies for children and ensure their adherence by all concerned;
* to coordinate/guide funding for children in Yemen; and
* to monitor progress of child welfare and development goals.
The Minister of Insurance and Social Affairs chaired the Yemeni Council, but the Prime Minister has
agreed to chair the new Higher Council, given the need to better coordinate/collaborate with the sector
ministries; The law reflecting these changes (conversion of the Yemeni Council to Higher Council) has
been endorsed by the cabinet and has received the seal of Presidential Decree (No. 321, Sept 20, 1999).
In this new arrangement, the Minister of Social Affairs and Insurance will co-chair the Council, which
includes the Ministers of Health, Education, Local Administration, Information, Planning, Finance, and
Culture.
A working group of relevant deputy ministers from the above-mentioned ministries will form a Steering
Committee (SC), which will be chaired by the Secretary General of the HCMC. The key task of the SC is
to direct the Child Development Project, including decision-making on all substantive and financial
aspects. The SC will approve annual plans presented by UNICEF/PCU and developed in collaboration
with the relevant sector ministries/agencies, assess project progress, and address broad implementation
problems. The tasks of the SC with respect to the project are shown in the above chart and described in
detail in the Implementation Manual. The concerned deputy ministers representing their respective
ministries would make decisions on specific components related to their sectors.
The Steering Committee will meet at least once a year to approve annual plans and twice a year to review
project progress (coinciding with IDA supervision missions).
Project Implementation
Responsible agencies/ministries: Project Coordination Unit (PCU); Ministries of Public Health and
Education; GAREWS; and UNICEF.
A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) will be responsible for procurement and financial management. The
key task of the PCU is procurement. It will be responsible for calling bids and signing contracts with all
contractors, consultants, and suppliers for all tasks that UNICEF is not responsible for managing
(discussed below). These tasks that the PCU is expected to directly manage (using Bank guidelines and
procurement rules) will be for all goods procurement, except vaccines, accessories, and ORS (which
UNICEF will procure directly). UNICEF will provide support to the PCU. The PCU will also be
responsible for consolidating reports, including those coming from UNICEF, before submitting them to
the SC and IDA.
The PCU will have a director (who will be the Secretary General of the SC)9 a finance officer, an
accountant, a procurement officer/engineer, and an administrative assistant. The tasks of the PCU are
shown in the above chart and described in detail in the Implementation Manual. The terms of reference
of the PCU staff are outlined in the Operations Manual.
The project will be implemented by the Ministries of Public Health and Education, and the water-supply
authority GAREWS (central and sub-national offices), with the technical and managerial support of
UNICEF from their Sana'a- and governorate area-based offices. UNICEF will initiate the preparation of
the annual plans. UNICEF will work closely with the Ministries of Health and Education and GAREWS
in developing the annual plans/budgets, which will be guided by the ministries'/agency's policies and
strategies. Detailed implementation arrangements and responsibilities of the sector ministries and
9 PCU Director has been competitively selected.



14
UNICEF's roles are outlined in the Implementation Manual. Any changes to these roles and
responsibilities will be incorporated after joint discussions between the sector ministries/agency and
UNICEF.
After approval of the annual action plans, UNICEF and the PCU will work closely with the sector
ministries and their representatives at sub-national levels during implementation.
The Ministries of Public Health and Education and GAREWS will provide the necessary staff and
counterpart funds for the project as outlined in the Implementation Manual. Since the project is largely
managed at the sub-national levels, governorate and district offices of these ministries/agencies will be
properly briefed and adequately prepared for their implementation roles. While UNICEF will relate
directly with the concerned staff of the sector ministries/agency during ongoing project implementation,
the ministries/agency will appoint focal staff/teams for project support and monitoring. These focal
staff/teams are also expected to facilitate engagement of the ministries/agency at all levels.
The project will use three broad types of procurement procedures: (a) IDA procedures for all IDA
financed activities managed by the PCU; (b) procedures described in the CAPA, which are acceptable to
IDA for all IDA financed and UNICEF managed activities; and (c) UNICEF procedures for all UNICEF
financed activities.
Cooperation Agreement for Project Assistance
UNICEF Yemen has entered (on February 14, 2000) into a Cooperation Agreement for Project Assistance
(which has been cleared by IDA) with the Government to help implement major parts of the project in
collaboration with the sector ministries/agency. UNICEF's central tasks in the project will be technical
assistance, capacity building, and some procurement, as outlined in the Cooperation Agreement and the
Implementation Manual. A summary of the main tasks that are part of the CAPA is provided below.
Funding Breakdown for tasks under the CAPA with UNICEF
Tasks                              IDA funded
(in US$m)
Procure Vaccines and Accessories                                    5.51
Procure Oral Rehydration Salts                                      3.46
Provide Technical Assistance (Consultants, including Arch./Engineer).  3.4710
Provide Relevant Training                                           1.66
Manage Civil Works                                                  4.61
Manage Operational Support/Supervision and Monitoring               1.65
UNICEF Management/Facilitation Costs"'
Consultants                                                  0.71
Small Equipment (computers, vehicles, furniture, office equipment)  0.29
Operating Budget                                             0.13
Total                                                               21.49
UNICEF Overhead (3% of above amounts)                                0.64
10 The amount also includes baseline, mid-term, and final surveys for impact evaluation and EMP implementation
(US$442,000), to be carried out by local consultants under UTNICEF supervision.
" Over and above their own staff resources, UNICEF proposes to hire an international supply officer and the
following national staff to manage the project: assistant fnance officer, project administrator, and a computer
specialist.



15
UNICEF Contributions to the Project
UNICEF will contribute US$12.4 million from both its general and supplemental resources to the project
over five years (see Project Description Summary and Cost Tables in the Operations Manual for details).
UNICEF funding will finance civil works for community schools and ECD components; goods for
district health systems, water and sanitation schemes, nutrition, community schools, and ECD
components; and training for safe motherhood, community schools, and teacher training components. In
addition, UNICEF will provide free of charge a number of staff to the project. The staff includes, among
others: the Program Coordinator; Project Officer (Child Development Project); Health and Nutrition
Project and Assistant Project Officers; Education Project and Assistant Project Officers; Information/
Communication Project and Assistant Project Officers; Operations Officer and Operations staff; and
Monitoring and Evaluation Officers. In general, all UNICEF staff will be supporting the project in
varying degrees.
UNICEF management structure and details on individual task responsibilities are discussed in the
Implementation Manual.
Project Financial Management System (FMS)
As explained above, the project will be implemented by two entities under the supervision of the Higher
Council for Motherhood and Childhood: the newly-established Project Coordination Unit (PCU); and the
UNICEF local office in Sana'a. The financial management function will be carried out at these two
levels. UNICEF's current financial management arrangements comply, in general, with Bank financial
policy 10.02. An action plan has been discussed and agreed upon to establish separate project accounting
records, PMR reporting design and generation, and auditing arrangements. The PCU, however, is in the
very early stages of establishment and will require the setting up of an entire financial management
system. A second action plan for setting up the financial management system of the PCU has been
discussed and agreed upon between the Bank and the borrower. To meet the Bank's financial
management requirements, both action plans need to be fully implemented prior to credit effectiveness.
The financial management arrangements for the project are detailed in Annex 6a and are summarized
below. To ensure that a project financial management system acceptable to the Bank is in place prior to
effectiveness, the two action plans have been designed to ensure:
*  that there is a capable financial management staff. For this, the staffing structure, TORs and
qualifications, in addition to the recruitment and selection process, have been developed and agreed
upon between the borrower, UNICEF, and the Bank, and are included in the project Operations
Manual;
*  the development of separate project accounting records, to be maintained according to generally-
accepted accounting standards, that are capable of generating the Bank's reporting requirements.
This includes the development of a proper chart of accounts reflecting accounting records according
to credit agreement categories;
* the development of financial policies and procedures and internal control systems compliant with
Bank's financial and procurement policies and regulations;
*  the development of the financial, procurement, and project's physical progress reporting (including
formats of financial management reports); and
*  annual independent auditing arrangements for the project.
All the actions agreed upon in the financial management action plans are conditions of credit
effectiveness. The Bank will undertake an assessment of the financial management system upon full
implementation of the action plans to evaluate readiness for disbursement.



16
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements (see Annex 1 and Operations Manual for details)
The UNICEF Monitoring and Evaluation Officer, under the supervision of the Program Coordinator and
in close collaboration with the Child Development Project Officer, will provide technical assistance and
management support for project monitoring and evaluation. Such progress reports will be accessible
through MIS and quarterly reporting by UNICEF to both the SC and IDA.
Surveys will be conducted to monitor the impact of the project (Annex 1). The key summary indicators
and the methodology for assessing impact are discussed in detail in a technical note in the Operations
Manual. Three surveys are envisaged. These include a phased-in baseline survey/assessment, a limited
mid-term survey/assessment, and a final comprehensive survey/assessment. These surveys/assessments
are particularly pertinent given the need to assess the impact and lessons learned for further expansion of
the area-based strategy. While lNICEF will carry out the baseline surveys, independent evaluators will
carry out the impact assessments.
Bank supervision missions will also regularly evaluate project progress.12
D.    Project Rationale
I .    Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Given the poor health and education status of children, from a substantive standpoint there is no
alternative to a swift expansion of basic health and education services to disadvantaged populations in the
country. Below are proposed strategies for effective expansion and use of services.
The following three alternative strategies for expansion of services were explored and rejected:
* First, there is consensus in Yemen that the traditional top-down approach of centrally-designed and
implemented strategies is neither cost-effective nor sustainable. The Government has rejected this
approach and has started to implement decentralization strategies to reach out to the beneficiaries
more effectively and increase community participation and contribution.
* Second, simultaneously with the Government's efforts, NGOs and donors have adopted a bottom-up
model of direct community involvement. Problems surfaced in this strategy as well due to lack of
both supportive policy changes and Government involvement. This lead to limited scale of action
and impact at the national level.
* Third, the project rejected strategies that would only concentrate on sectoralized health, nutrition, or
education interventions for children. Such strategies would lead to compartmentalization and loss of
synergy.
The strategy of this project is one in which the top-down meets the bottom-up through collaboration
among community members, NGOs, and members of the Government's decentralized units and, when
necessary, the governorate and central government. Support from the central bureaucracy is sought
because it is vital for enacting pertinent policies and executing sustainable, multi-sectoral programs at the
community level.
Project interventions and relative priorities/focus are based on beneficiary needs as appraised both from
the social assessment as well as UNICEF's field experience. While there may be additional needs in the
domains of nutrition, family planning and other relevant areas, it was found that these were being
addressed by other donors as evidenced both in Annex 2 of this PAD as well as the Operations Manual.
12 The Supervision Plan is presented in the Operations Manual.



17
2.     Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (whether
completed, ongoing, or planned):
Sector issue                    Project           Latest Supervision (Forn 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation      Development
Progress (IP)     Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Health-seeks to improve access to and  Family Health Project       S                   S
quality of MCH/FP services and      (Cr. 2525-YEM);
improve management effectiveness in    US$26.6 million.
the health sector.
Education-seeks to increase the     Basic Education Project        S                   S
school participation rate of girls in rural  (Cr. 2412-YEM);
areas, and lay the foundation for   US$14.5 million.
improving the quality of basic
education.
Education-seeks to improve the      Secondary Teacher              S                   S
effectiveness of the way teachers are  Training
employed in the classroom; and to   (Cr. 2222-YEM);
improve mechanisms for              US$19.4 million.
(i) planning, coordinating, and
monitoring the training and deployment
of secondary school teachers, and (ii)
introducing innovations into the
teaching system.
Education-seeks to enhance the      Ed. Sector Investment          S                   S
learning achievement of secondary   (Cr. 2570-YEM);
students, with special emphasis on  US$19.7 million.
science and mathematics education and
quality teaching; and to improve access
of girls to secondary education and
establish labor market-oriented two-
year secondary education programs,
covering business, commerce, and
industry.
Social Programs-seeks to reduce     Social Fund                    S                   S
poverty by improving living conditions  Development
and providing income-generating     (Cr.2953-YEM);
opportunities to the poor.          US$30.0 million.
Other development agencies
(see Operations Volume for complete
list of Donor operations in the human
development sector in Yemen)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



18
3.    Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
Three key lessons learned from prior IDA experience in the social sectors are reflected in the basic design
of this project:
*    First, complicated projects (e.g., the Education Sector Investment Project) were designed without
giving sufficient attention to the management and administrative capacity of the Ministries and their
sub-national offices to handle these projects. This project supports the capacity building at the sub-
national and relevant central levels to effectively manage the project. UNICEF's field presence will
be used in developing capacity at the various levels.
*    Second, projects were designed without adequate collaboration with other partners who have
extensive knowledge and experience in Yemen. The proposed project has been designed with
extensive UNICEF support. In fact, the project is the largest collaboration between the World Bank
and UNICEF. Other multilateral and bilateral agencies have also been consulted during preparation,
and some, such as GTZ, UNFPA, and WFP, are expected to be involved during implementation.
*    Third, projects did not carefully assess the public finance implications of their inputs, thereby
creating unsustainable scenarios in the long run. This project is fully consistent with the findings of
the ongoing Public Expenditure Review, after carefuil analysis of the public finance implications of
the proposed interventions, particularly those requiring recurrent expenses in the long run.
4.    Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The Government has endorsed major Conventions protecting children and women, including the
Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) and the Convention to Eliminate Discrimination Against
Women (CEDAW). The Government's National Five-year Plan expresses keen interest in the human
development sector. Furthermore, the Government has made every effort to fund the education and
health sectors, even during budgetary constraints, as it progresses with the adjustment program. The
project has been discussed with the Ministries of Planning and Development, Public Health, Education,
and Social Affairs, and GAREWS, and has received their full endorsements (written approvals of this
project document by all the relevant sector ministries are available in the projectfiles.)
The project seeks primarily to engender ownership of the project at the sub-national level. The Social
Assessment started the discussion processes with specific communities. These assessments are expected
to continue as UNICEF continues its project activities during 1999/00. In addition, UNICEF continues to
have ongoing dialogue with communities where they have current programs and where they plan to
intensify activities. The special attention given to sub-national/community initiatives from the beginning
of planning and project preparation is expected to enhance commitment for and ownership of the project.
5.    Value added of Bank support in this project
Yemen needs to swiftly introduce quality basic health and education services to disadvantaged
communities. The proposed project has sought to bring in community- and sub-national-level
perspectives for successful reform. UNICEF has tried the ABP approach both in and outside of Yemen,
and the project seeks to draw on this model to reach disadvantaged groups. In this strategic context,
IDA's value added includes:



19
* strong sectoral knowledge for fine-tuning the area-based approach;
* funding for expanding this model of service provision (with necessary improvements) into a larger
scale; and
* technical assistance for assessing the financial viability, sustainability (in the context of both macro-
economic situation, budgetary allocations in the sectoral ministries, as well as decentralization at sub-
national levels), and benefits of the project.
In addition, because this is a joint UNICEF-World Bank operation, the value added of the collaboration
exceeds the sum of the individual contributions by the two organizations. The value added of the
collaboration includes:
* a stronger voice for instituting policies that are designed to improve the health and education status of
children;
* greater capacity to reach larger segments of the population;
* greater efficiency and cost-effectiveness and less duplication of effort;
* capacity building for similar collaboration in the future with UNICEF and other UN agencies; and
* harmonizing donor strategies.
E.     Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file; see Annex 8)
1.     Economic (see Annex 4)
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$       million; ERR=    %  [XI Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
L  Other (Specify)
2.     Financial (see Annex 5)
NPV= NA        million; FRR=  NA
The economic assessment of this project is based on the answers to the following questions: (i) is there a
rationale for public-sector intervention, including alternatives such as the private sector; (ii) what is the
fiscal impact of the project; (iii) what is the cost per beneficiary of the major interventions; and (iv) is it
cost-effective?
Role of the Private Sector and Rationale for Public Sector Intervention
The role of the private sector. The Government has primary responsibility for financing and
implementing the project. However, the role of the private sector will be key, as implementation will be
through a program of public-private partnerships using community groups and private contractors in the
education, health and water sectors. Given the low levels of public expenditure, especially in the health
sector (less than US$4.50 per capita), beneficiary cost sharing to help meet the recurrent needs in all
sectors is also an important aspect of this project and represents about 4 percent of total project costs.
Rationale for public-sector intervention. Public-sector intervention is justified on the grounds that: (i)
benefits are targeted to under-served communities unlikely to be reached by the private sector; (ii)
externalities; (iii) poverty reduction; and (iv) equity.
(i) Communities unlikely to be reached by the private sector. Although the private provision of basic
health care and primary education is expanding, it still only covers a limited population (less than 1
percent of students in grades 1 to 6 are in private schools), and services are concentrated in densely-
populated and rich areas, such as Sana'a City and the main cities in the governorates of Ibb, Hodeidah and



20
Hajjah. Although not yet chosen, the districts will likely be rural and poor, and thus unlikely targets for
private sector expansion in the near future.
(ii) Externalities. The significant positive externalities, resulting from some of the proposed basic health
and education interventions (such as EPI and girls' education) in this project, are well known. Presently,
Yemen has poor indicators in these areas, thus the scope of social benefits, or extemalities, that could
potentially arise from the proposed interventions is great.
(iii) Poverty Reduction. With a 1997 GDP per capita of US$360, Yemen is among the poorest
countries in the world. The 1992 data show that 19 percent of the population lives below the poverty
line (1996 Poverty Report). The first two rounds of the 1998 Household Survey show that poverty has
not changed substantially since then. In addition, the average size of families in Yemen is large, 7.2
persons per household, which poses difficulties for many not living below the poverty line to cover
expenses associated with basic health care and education. The need for public-sector intervention for
poverty reduction is therefore great.
(iv) Equity. Government support to social assistance and welfare programs is almost non-existent,
making the provision of basic services such as health, education, and safe drinking water an essential
means of redistribution. The project interventions will be an important way of achieving equity and will
be implemented in governorates where the equity arguments are the strongest because they comprise
more than 50 percent of the poor.
Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery
Fiscal Impact. The fiscal impact of the incremental recurrent cost was examined. The total project
recurrent cost is US$4.82 million, which represents 11 percent of total costs. During project
implementation, IDA will cover 34 percent of these costs, the GOY will cover 32 percent, and the
beneficiaries 34 percent. The yearly government recurrent contribution will be US$0.31 million and
represenits only 0.1 percent of the projected recurrent government budgets in education and health
combined for 1998 (or 0.32 percent and 0.04 percent, respectively, of the 1998 budgets for health and
education). The rnajority of the Government's recurrent expenditures covers maintenance and repairs of
newly-constructed or renovated government buildings, and monitoring and supervision costs. A small
amount is allocated for textbook distribution and operational support.
The contribution for textbook distribution has already been allocated to the Government Printing Press.
Budgets for supervision, maintenance and repairs, and operational support are to be planned during
decentralization. Decentralization of budgets to the facility level began in 1998; budgets were still
inadequate. Proper costing of the operational needs of the health facilities is being carried out as part of
the public expenditure review, and the results integrated into the budgeting process.
After the project implementation period of five years, the Government's recurrent cost obligations will
double to approximately US$0.64 million per year. This amount still represents a very small percentage
of the Health and Education Ministries' recurrent budgets. This sum will be recovered by the savings
from the Health and Education Ministries' reform programs. These programs include rationalization of
procedures, budgeting, personnel, and other efficiency gains. These reform programs are currently
receiving support from the World Bank as part of the civil service reform and the National Health
Accounts exercises. Thus, the Government is expected to be able to meet this minimal increase.
Cost Recovery. Community contributions to recurrent expenses is also pertinent to ensuring project
sustainability and to minimizing the fiscal impact on the Government both during and after project
implementation. The community is expected to meet most of the minor building and equipment
maintenance and repair costs that incur due to civil works, as well as some of the additional facility
operational expenses for health, education and water facilities. This will be accomplished by helping the



21
community set up cost-sharing schemes in these sectors as is the present practice in many areas in Yemen.
Beneficiary contributions during project implementation represent 4 percent of total project costs (see
Operations Manual for further details including exemptions and cost to beneficiaries).
Cost Per Beneficiary
The direct cost of project interventions per year on different categories of beneficiaries for health,
education and water was calculated. The per-beneficiary numbers include the recurrent and annualized
capital cost (see table below). The costs for education are similar to the Bangladesh Rural Advancement
Committee (BRAC) and the Egypt programs, which cost US$22 and US$88 in 1998 dollars),
respectively. 13
Direct cost per year of the major CDP interventions (in 1998 US$):
Intervention14          Total      Gov.    %        IDA/       %   Communities   %
Cofinanciers
Educate a girl in primary school  44.9      30.9    69       13.87      31       0.18        0.4
Keep a child under 5 healthy      24.0       8.2    34        8.34      35       7.47        31
Provide clean water to a person   20.8       0.0     0       19.04      92       1.75         8
Tt bi' '  F.. .    9.     44 J  - 41.25-    46         9.40        10
Cost Effectiveness
The main project interventions in health and education were evaluated and found to be cost-effective. In
addition, effectiveness of the project interventions will be enhanced because: (i) the project integrates
interventions in health, education, and water and sanitation, thus creating synergies among the sectors;
and (ii) the interventions will be targeted to those areas where the impact will be the highest due to the
fact that they are relatively worse off in terms of highest number of under-five deaths and out-of-school
girls.
Health. The cost-effectiveness of the two governorate-level interventions, EPI and provision of ORS, are
well established, and efforts have been made under the project to ensure their cost effectiveness in
Yemen. A cost-effectiveness analysis of the ABP health component was performed. Due to the cost-
effectiveness of the standard interventions being well established, the analysis focuses on the management
system (District Health System) which is being introduced by the project. A model is presented which
compares two alternatives for system delivery, one in which there is no interaction between public and
private financing (as is the case now, and the facilities lack funding for running costs), and one where
there is a mix (and running costs can be met). Results15 show that: (i) the total cost of a primary health-
care visit decreased by more than 35 percent; (ii) the public portion decreased by more than 50 percent;
and (iii) the out-of-pocket portion decreased by more than 40 percent.
Education. The returns to girls' education are well known, and the potential social benefits that arise
from educating females are large in Yemen given the high population growth and poor child health. The
analysis did not question the cost-effectiveness of girls' education-rather, the approach followed in the
community education component aimed at increasing girls' enrollment in grades 1 to 6. Data used is
13 Costs of the programs may vary because details of what was included in the original programs were not fully
available.
14 See assumptions details in Annex 4.
'5 The utilization rate is a good indicator for measuring the effectiveness of the two systems. This effectiveness
measure is built into the model. Sensitivity analysis shows that only a 3 percent increase in utilization rates would
be needed for the results to be positive.



22
based on the UNICEF pilot which is similar to project interventions, though not completely the same.
Results show that incremental recurrent costs for the program aimed at improving quality and providing
incentives for girls to go to school are approximately US$2 per child more than the present Government
system. With this extra monetary input, it is estimated that girls' enrollment rates could increase by as
much as 50 percent.
Water and sanitation. The project will not support large schemes, but rather low-cost, appropriate
community water and sanitation schemes that can be sustained by communities. The cost to the
Government for these schemes will be minimized by setting up community management teams, which
will be responsible for establishing cost-sharing mechanisms to cover maintenance and daily supervision
of the water and sanitation.
3.    Technical
The project was designed in cooperation with the relevant Government counterparts, UNICEF staff,
experts from bilateral donors such as the Dutch and the Germans (GTZ), and international and national
consultants. It drew on best practices to ensure that project design was appropriate for the Yemeni
context. Each of the major sub-components has been designed to be feasible, flexible, cost-effective,
sustainable, and consistent with the Govermnent policy. During implementation, UNICEF expertise and
field experience would be used to ensure efficient, high standard, and cost-effective implementation.
4.    Institutional
Project management
*  The selection process for the Project Director (also SG of the HCMC) has already been completed
and a strong candidate has been appointed through Presidential Decree.
*  UNICEF's current capacity in Yemen would need to be moderately enhanced (a process that has
already started) to effectively support project implementation and help build local capacity. UNICEF
has proposed enhancing its capacity in the areas of education, nutrition, district health, monitoring
and evaluation, financial management, area-based operations and field presence, and supply and
procurement (see Operations Manual for the TORs of new UNICEF staff). UNICEF has already
filled several of these positions with its own funds.
5.    Social
Community (women and parents) groups have been consulted through a Social Assessment (available in
project files). The main findings of the social assessment support both the strategy and substance of what
is proposed in this project (see Annex 11 for lessons learned from the Social Assessment). The Social
Assessment tool is also expected to be used during project implementation. During these assessments,
local groups will be engaged in a dialogue to help assess their aspirations, constraints, and capacity to
participate. Such information will be used by the communities and district level officials with UNICEF
support to plan interventions in their areas in an ongoing basis.
6.    Environmental assessment
Environmental Category      I A   [X] B   [I] C
There are no irreversible environmental issues. However, the following environmental issues need to be
addressed:  (a) contamination of water resources; (b) improper wastewater discharges; and (c)
mishandling of chemical wastes. Sub-projects are not yet identified. Therefore, a screening mechanism
and environmental review system will be put in place by the PCU on the basis of the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP). The EMP will provide the mitigation measures for constructing appropriate



23
water storage for preventing water contamination, construction of proper drainage and latrines to diminish
wastewater discharges into the soil, and proper disposal of infectious wastes in sealed containers. A
category B was assigned because of the limited adverse environment impact. In accordance with OD 4.01
a separate EMP is required and has been prepared. Progress of the implementation of the EMP will be
submitted annually by the PCU as part of the annual progress report. Bank supervision missions will
review the EMP progress and monitor its implementation.
7.    Participatory approach
Participatory approach   Identification/Preparation  Implementation   Operation
Govermnent counterparts                COL                COL          COL
Sub-national government             IS and CON            COL          COL
Beneficiaries/community Groups      IS and CON            COL          COL
Bilateral donors (Dutch and GTZ)    IS and CON            COL          COL
UNICEF                                 COL                COL          COL
Professional and other organizations  IS and CON           IS           IS
Note: Information sharing (IS); consultation (CON); and collaboration (COL).
F.    Sustainability and Risks
1.    Sustainability
Two aspects of sustainability must be looked into: (i) fiscal sustainability, pertaining to both national
public expenditures and community level support; and (ii) institutional sustainability, pertaining to
"learning" by communities and the sub-national and central governments of their respective roles, even
after UNICEF withdraws as facilitator.
* Fiscal sustainability.'6 Providing adequate/essential health, nutrition, and education for children will
require a sustained effort on the part of the Government over the next several decades. The
Government will have a continuing role with respect to regulation and policy development and
funding for essential programs for children and the poor, even as the economy expands and a greater
proportion of individuals are able to pay for these services. As mentioned in the economic analysis
section, the high social returns to these investments justify the public expenditure in these priority
human development sectors.
In the medium term, as quality services are expanded, expenditures for expansion, as well as for
recurrent budget, are expected to increase as outlined in the Education and Health Public Expenditure
Reviews (1999). Increased need for resources would have to be financed through a variety of
methods, including support from external donors for a foreseeable future, particularly for capital
expenses. Recurrent expenses, on the other hand, could be financed by: (a) a sustained GDP growth;
(b) reduction in wastage and inefficiencies through the reform programs; and (c) community
contributions and cost sharing."7 The project directly supports the latter two approaches.
The cost-sharing schemes in health and education have been shown to be sustainable in the ABP
pilot. The schemes were specifically developed to be simple and affordable for poor communities.
For example, before a mechanical water scheme is introduced that would require cost-sharing, the
UNICEF field officer meets with the community to discuss their willingness to pay, the amount the
families covered by the schemes can contribute each month/year, if this monthly amount is adequate
to ensure the sustainability of the system, and exemptions for the poor. In health, while there was no
16 For details on fiscal impact of the project, refer to the Economic Analysis section.
17 For detailed discussion on these issues, refer to the Health and Education Public Expenditure Reviews (1999).



24
willingness to pay study, the cost-sharing component only involves full cost recovery on drugs (no
user-fees). The ABP pilot showed that patients come to the health facilities because they receive a
free consultation and drugs which are of better quality and cheaper than in the private market, which
is the only other source of health care.
* Institutional sustainability. The most essential element of sustainability for this project, however, is
involvement of the communities supported by the sub-national Government apparatus, which will
participate in identifying and analyzing issues and managing implementation. A strong focus on
capacity building (mainly through relevant training) at these levels is expected to enhance
institutional sustainability. UNICEF's central role as facilitator is to help enhance the capacity of
these sub-national and, where needed, central offices. Training is planned for Local Development
Committees, District Health staff, District Education staff, and Governorate level staff in the domains
of problem identification, prioritizing, planning, implementation, monitoring as well as resource
mobilization and conflict resolution.
2.     Critical risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                   Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
a. Sub-national Government offices weak       S       a. Capacity building focus of
in implementation                                     different components and UNICEF
support
b. Demand for essential health, nutrition,   M        b. IEC, social mobilization activities
and education services may not rise
c. Data not accurate and political           M        c. Strong monitoring capacity built
considerations for district selection                into project
Annex 1, cell "from Components to
Outputs"
a. Sub-national level participation and       S       a. UNICEF to work at both the
involvement constrained by bureaucratic               national and sub-national levels to
procedures and interference by center                 facilitate operations
b. UNICEF's (Yemen) current capacity         M       b. UNICEF will recruit additional
moderate                                              staff to carry out implementation
tasks
Overall Risk Rating                         M-S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3.     Possible controversial aspects
* Politically driven demand for area-based programs in Governorates not covered under the
current project. The use of objective criteria would help mitigate this potential problem.



25
G.    Main Loan Conditions
Prior to Effectiveness
* Implementation of Action Plan to meet Bank's reporting requirements [see Annex 6(b)].
*  Appointment of Steering Committee and Sector Ministries' Focal Staff members selected.
General Conditions
*  A joint Government-UNICEF-IDA Early Implementation and Mid-term review of the project
conducted.
*  Adherence to objective criteria for the selection of districts (as outlined in the Operations Manual)
ensured.
*  Environmental Management Plan implemented.
H.    Readiness for Implementation
The following critical preparatory activities have already been carried out:
* The Cooperation Agreement for Project Assistance between the Government of Yemen and
UNICEF has been signed;
*  PCU Director has been selected and appointed through Presidential Decree; the PCU is already
physically "housed" in a rented building paid for by UNICEF.
*  UNICEF funds have been available during 1999/00, and preparatory activities have started in the
first-phase governorates;
*  Implementation and procurement plans have been prepared for the first year of the project;
selected interventions are planned for 13 districts. UNICEF is already operating in these districts
and social assessments have been conducted in 5 of them;
*  UNICEF consultations with communities and sub-national level officials have started;
*  TORs for all project management staff and long-term TA assignment have been prepared; and
*  Detailed implementation and Operations Manuals have been prepared.
I.    Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Country Director: Inder Sud           _
Sector Director:  Jacques Baudouy     -
Sector Manager:  Marlaine Lockheed
Team Leader:     Arun Joshi                               6,



Annex 1
Page I of 7
Republic of Yemen
Child Development Project
Project Design Summary
Sector-related CAS goal: to alleviate poverty by creating an early stream of social benefits in
education, health, and other services most valued by Yemenis.
Project development objective: to assist the GOY in the implementation of policies and strategies for
improving the health and nutritional status of children and the educational status of girls.
i.'."'toriryg.a'd evahi~tion                                             Critical Assumptions;
1. Reduction of under-age-five mortality   Direct and indirect calculations of No major epidemics or
at least 10 percent faster in        childhood mortality trends from    outbreaks occur during
intervention areas than in comparable   baseline and impact survey data,   project implementation.
rural, non-intervention areas by 2005.   compared to similar trends for
rural Yemen, using data from
DHS surveys.
2. Reduction of severe malnutrition    . growth monitoring as part of    No major economic or
(wasting) of children under age five in   baseline and impact surveys.  environmental changes
intervention areas by at least 20        . continuous monitoring through    affecting food availability
percent, between base-line survey and    health facilities records.  and general health status.
impact survey (2005).
a general comparison with other
areas using data from DHS 1997.
3. Decrease in ratio of boys to girls  . school enrollment data from     Parents not responsive to
enrolled in grade six in intervention  baseline and impact surveys.  social mobilization or
areas by at least 15 percent by 2005.    .continuous monitoring through    severe economic crises.
school administrations in
intervention areas.
4. Pilot indicator: improvement of girls'  In pilot areas: sixth-grade girls'   No major obstacles for
learning achievement scores, and reach  literacy, numeracy and life skills   children attending
at least satisfactory levels, by the fifth   checked against a set of defined    schools regularly.
year of the project (2005).          basic competencies, in the first
year of the project and in its last
year.
'Summary indicators are discussed in detail in the Technical Note of the Operations Manual.



Annex I
Page 2 of 7
Intervention-specific Indicators
Key Performace IndicatosMntrn   n   vluCiia  supin
Output 1: Communities mobilized
1. Formation and/or strengthening of                                  Facilitators are able to convey
Local Development Committees                                          credibility and feasibility and
(LDCs) covering all intervention areas                                properly deal with existing
authority structures.
1.1 Members, their functions, and     . focus-group interviews.
modalities of LDCs defined.           . backstopping missions.
1.2 LDCs participate in community needs LDC reports (minutes of
assessment.                            meetings, work-plans, progress
reports).
1.3 LDCs meet regularly and take an   . focus-group interviews.
active role in various community      . backstopping missions.
activities.
Output 2: Children's health statusirnproved
2. Development of management and                                      Guaranteed availability of key
operational capacities of District Health                             staff for all health facilities as
Systems                                                               per MOH's specifications.
2.1 Coverage rates of health services for   Health facility records, matched  . health facility staff keeps
children under age 1 and children under    with estimates of target    reliable daily, weekly, and
age 5 increase by 10 percentage points  populations using 1994 census  monthly records of visitors.
after two years of project interventions.    data, data from DHS 1997, and   . instructions concerning
base-line survey data.          registration are consistently
interpreted and applied.
2.2 District Health Management Teams   . DHMT reports (minutes of
(DHMTs) established and functioning.    meetings, work-plans, progress
reports).
. backstopping missions.
2.3 Local Health Committees formed and . focus group interviews.
functioning.                          . backstopping missions.
. LHC reports (minutes of
meetings, work-plans, progress
reports).
2.4 Cost-sharing systems introduced and  . backstopping missions.     Exemption and other relevant
achieve after 2 years at least 50 percent   . LHC reports (minutes of  policies formulated and
cost recovery for medicines.            meetings, work-plans, progress  implemented.
reports).
. health facilities' accounts.
2.5 All health facilities function in  . focus group interviews.      Logistic arrangements with
intervention areas, have required staff and      .    .i.             MOH and its branch offices.
e backstoppig missions.



Annex I
Page 3 of 7
cequipm_ent reev reuie q  A]uantitie of .lHC reprts.                  MOPH to actively support
essential drugs and supplies, and adhere                             implementation and remove
to agreed-upon opening hours.                                  _      impediments.
2.6 Local communities consider the     Focus group interviews.
health services delivery to have improved
to satisfactory levels.
3. Integrated Management of
Childhood Illnesses introduced
3.1 Case fatality ratio of main diseases    . baseline and impact surveys.
(diarrhea, ARI, malaria) reduced by 25    * mid-term evaluation through
percent after five years of project     rapid assessment.
interventions in health facilities.
. continuous monitoring using
health facilities records.
3.2 ORS provided to all reported       Health facilities records.
diarrhea/dehydration cases in project
intervention areas.
3.3 Proportion of mothers using ORS   . baseline and impact surveys.
when their children have diarrhea
.        .~~ mid-term evaluation through
increased by 25 percentage points after  rapid assessment.
five years of project interventions.
4. Child full immunization rates      . baseline and impact surveys.
increased to at least 90 percent in all  mid-term evaluation through
intervention governorates by year 5 of   rapid assessment.
the project
. continuous monitoring using
health facilities and EPI
records.
4.1 DPT+P (3) vaccination coverage     as above.
increased by at least 15 percentage points.
4.2 Hepatitis B vaccination coverage   as above.
increased by at least 25 percentage points.
5. Safe Motherhood Program
instituted
5.1 TetanusT (2) vaccination coverage  as above.
increased by at least 15 percentage points
among pregnant women.
5.2 ANC first visit coverage increased by as above.
at least 10 percentage points.



Annex I
Page 4 of 7
'ey p'o k rm      dce             Monitori  andEvaluation          Critical Assumptions
5.3 Proportion of deliveries at health  Health facility records, matched
facilities increased by 10 percentage  with estimated total numbers of
points over five years.               deliveries (based on census
data, DHS survey, base-line
survey, impact survey).
5.4 Pilot indicator: Health facilities  . health facility records matched  Trained obstetrician,
implement referral system for difficult  with records of three pilot  gynecologist, surgeon available
pregnancies.                           hospitals.                   in three pilot hospitals.
. DHMT reports.
6. Sustainable drinking water and
sanitation schemes operational
6.1 LDCs identify community needs for  . focus group interviews.
water and/or sanitation schemes.      . LDC reports.
6.2 LDCs prepare cost-sharing plans for  . LDC reports.
emergency measures, maintenance, and/or . backstopping missions.
new water and sanitation schemes.
6.3 Access to safe drinking water for  . census data, DHS survey data,
households has increased by 25         baseline survey, impact survey.
percentage points in intervention areas.   * mid-term evaluation through
rapid assessment.
6.4 Water quality attains satisfactory  . health facilities records.
levels in identified key locations.  * DHMT reports.
6.5 Cost sharing systems implemented.   . LDC reports.
. backstopping missions.
6.6 Community satisfaction regarding    . focus group interviews.
situation of drinking water and sanitation.
Output 3. Chikrents nutritionafstatus improved
7. Prevalence of wasting and          . triple-A approach.
micronutrient deficiencies decreased
and knowledge of food and feeding                   ,
practices increased in intervention  . continuous monitoring through
communities                            health facilities records.
7.1 Proportion of mothers who         as above.
implement proper nutrition and feeding
practices increased by at least 20
percentage points in intervention areas.
7.2 Prevalence of iron, anemia, and   . baseline survey, impact survey.
vitamin A deficiency reduced by 30% for . combined hemoglobin and
children in intervention areas by project's  serum retinol surveys.
end.



Annex 1
Page 5 of 7
Ke ProraceLdiaors l    Moiorn a_                       aat ion      Critia Assumptions t;0
7.3 Prevalence rate of breastfeeding  . baseline and impact surveys.
increased by 20% in intervention areas.   . focus group interviews.
O. Girls' enrollment in grades 1 to 6 in   Census data, DHS survey data,
intervention areas increased by 20    base-line survey, impact survey.
percentage points by the end of the   Continuous monitoring through
project                               district education records.
8.1 Enhanced effectiveness of DEOs in   . focus group interviews.
resolving bottlenecks.               . backstopping missions.
. DEO reports.
8.2 Regular supervision visits by DEO    . focus group interviews.
and cluster meetings.                . backstopping missions.
. DEO reports.
8.3 Increased satisfaction of teachers  . focus group interviews.
with feedback and management support.  . backstopping missions.
8.4 Increased willingness of parents to    . baseline and impact surveys.
send their daughters to school.      . focus group interviews.
9. Proportion of trained women        District education records..
teachers for grades 1-6 at schools in
intervention areas increased by at least
15 percentage points by the end of the
project
10. Storage and distribution of       Amounts of shortages and     Distribution bottlenecks
textbooks and educational materials   delays before and after project   addressed by MOE.
improved in intervention areas       intervention.
1 1. 1 ECD models piloted and evaluated   Backstopping missions.
for impact and sustainability in six
districts.
11.2 National ECD policy formulated.    Backstopping missions.



Annex 1
Page 6 of 7
Project Inputs and Costs by Components
Project components/sub-                                                          Costs
components                                                              (total 5-year
(see Annex 2 for project                       Input                          investment,
description)                                                            US$ million)
I. Community Readiness
1.1 Training oftrainers (15), governorate coordinators (9),
and local development committee members (2,700)          0.09
1.2 Social mobilization                                  0.17
1.3 Computers, office equipment, furniture, and vehicles for
7 governorate area-based offices                         0.23
1.4 Technical assistance for ABP and surveys for impact
assessment                                               0.83
II. Health Activity
2. District Health System    2.1 Rehabilitation of referral facilities (3), health centers
(14), and health units (50)                              1.30
2.2 Equipment to the above-mentioned facilities (computers,
vehicles, and emergency generators)                      1.40
2.3 Technical assistance in information system design
and DH specialist                                        0.45
2.4 Training of 30 DHMTs and 9 governorate health offices  0.89
3. Integrated management   3.1 Goods, including equipment and essential drugs
of childhood illness     (including ORS), to the district facilities               9.18
3.2 Training of physicians (3), trainers in complementary
feeding (60), HWs in complementary feeding (900), and
HWs in IMCI (900) and refresher training (900)           0.28
3.3 Technical Assistance on IMCI and control of diarrheal
diseases                                                 0.24
4. Immunization program    4.1 IEC and Social mobilization                         0.15
4.2 Training of EPI workers (900)                        0.06
4.3 Vaccines, syringes, safety boxes (for all children in the 9
governorates)                                            5.51
5. Safe motherhood       5.1 Technical Assistance on Safe Motherhood               0.06
5.2 Goods including ambulance (3), communication
equipment (20), midwifery kits (200), and clean delivery kits  0.17
(1800)
5.3 Training of physicians (6) and outreach workers (1800)  0.31
6. Water and sanitation  6.1 Technical assistance on water/sanitation schemes      0.49
6.2 Works and equipment for water systems such as
mechanized water schemes, rainwater collectors, and hand
pumps, with related sanitation schemes, design, and      5.30
supervision
6.3 Related training for the above-mentioned water schemes
(590)                                                    0.04



Annex 1
Page 7 of 7
m. Nutrition Activity
7.1 Training on monitoring and surveillance         0.01
7.2 Social mobilization/triple-A approach           0.06
7.3 Technical Assistance on complementary feeding   0.08
7.4 Goods including weighing machines, stature boards,
and micronutrient supplements                        1.26
IV. Education Activity
8. Community schools        8.1 Training of Cluster Ed. Committee members (600)
and School Supervisors (175), and Study Visits (15)  0.23
8.2 Technical Assistance and design of supervision and
evaluation system                                    0.02
8.3 Goods, including furniture and equipment, for the
DEOs' offices                                       0.19
8.4 Works for new, 6-classroom schools (30), rehab. of
existing classrooms (600), and upgrading of sanitary  3.46
facilities (480)
8.5 Goods, including furniture for classrooms (780),
school kits (780), and book-storage cabinets (780);
design and supervision activities                    1.44
9. Woman-teacher training   9.1 Technical Assistance for assessing current training
methods and for supervision and monitoring          0.37
9.2 Training of trainers (350) and female teachers
(4,320), and refresher courses (2,880)              2.02
10. Textbook                10.1 Technical Assistance for reviewing existing
storage/distribution        storage/distribution system and design of computerized
inventory system                                    0.03
10.2 Governorate warehouses: building of new (5) and
rehabilitating (1)                                   0.81
10.3 Goods, including computers, for the 7 governorate
warehouses and Central Printing Press and Supplies  0.04
Dept. (18)
10.4 Training in warehousing (20)                   0.04
V. Pilot ECD
11.1 Technical Assistance in child rearing practices,
child development, survey of existing child care
programs, and development of national                0.11
policies/programs
11.2 Piloting of programs (4) including training, works
and goods                                           0.45
VI. Project Management
12.1 UNICEF staffing                                0.70
12.2 UNICEF goods, including computers, furniture,
and vehicles                                         0.06
12.3 YCMC/PCU staffing                              0.43
12.4 YCMC/PCU goods, including computers,
furniture, and vehicles                              0.06
12.5 UNICEF and PCU operating budget                0.32



Annex 2
Page I of 13
Republic of Yemen
Child Development Project
Detailed Project Description
1.   Project development objectives of improving the health and nutritional status of children and the
educational status of girls in currently disadvantaged districts will be achieved by providing coordinated,
community-based services in health, nutrition, education, water, and pilot ECD operations through an
area-based program (ABP) in 9 disadvantaged govemorates. Within these governorates, the Project will
concentrate most of its activities in 30 districts. Since communities will vary in their demand for various
services, the scope of project inputs in each specific district cannot be ascertained a priori. These will be
determined through social and other assessments and participatory community planning on an ongoing
basis as has already been discussed.
2.   The project's current design is based on detailed sector work in the areas of health, nutrition, water,
education, the social assessment, and the current UNICEF area-based program evaluation.
3.   The project includes six components: (1) Community Readiness; (2) Health Activity (five sub-
components); (3) Nutrition Activity; (4) Education Activity (three sub-components); (5) Pilot Early Child
Development Activity; and (6) Project Management. A detailed description of the components and their
key activities are presented below.
Component 1: Community Readiness (US$1.33 million)
4.   Most health and education operations in Yemen are planned by the central ministries with little, if
any, involvement of the beneficiaries and sub-national offices. Given the lack of engagement of
beneficiaries and decentralized units, most of these programs become financially- and institutionally-
unsustainable in the long run. Numerous studies, including the social assessment conducted for the
project, show that the self-help attitude is still intact and should be utilized in the development process.
5.   The project aims to address this issue by engaging the beneficiaries in the planning process. The
Community Readiness Component is designed to provide communities with the skills they need to assess
needs and capacities, plan interventions, and develop linkages with district level offices in health and
education.
6.   The govemorate area-based offices which are operated by UNICEF will facilitate community-
initiated operations in their respective districts (and within districts, uzlas). These offices are also
expected to liaise with various sub-national government offices, particularly those in health, education,
and water, and to provide overall guidance in implementing the ABP. The govemorate area-based offices
are composed of an area-based officer and an assistant/driver. The main tasks of the local area-based
teams, as are the current practices, are to initiate activities, train and build the capacity of local people,
and resolve conflicts that may arise.
7.   Baseline survey and social assessment will be conducted in the selected districts where the project
will initiate activities. Local Development Committees (LDC) comprised of headmasters, health workers,
sheiks, senior community members, and other members of the community will be identified (where
already available) or established.  Subsequently, training on assessing needs and capacities, and
community planning in health, nutrition, education, and water will be provided. There will be no standard
for the type of committees formed; some areas may decide to have larger committees while others may



Annex 2
Page 2 of 13
decide to form committees for specific sectors such as health, education, or water. This component is
designed to allow communities to decide on what their priority interventions are, where the interventions
would be located, how much the communities would contribute, and what the project would finance.
8.   LDCs will also participate in the mid-term and final surveys, which will assess the impact of the
project interventions on their communities.
Implementation: For detailed implementation roles and schedules, refer to the Project Implementation
Volume.
Project Inputs: Project would finance: (i) training of trainers, governorate area-based officers, Local
Development Committee members; (ii) baseline surveys, social mobilization/community education; and
(iii) goods, including computers, office equipment, furniture, and vehicles for the govemorate area-based
offices.
Component 2: Health Activity (US$25.76 million)'
9.   The main objective of the health activity is to improve the health status of children under age 5 in
the 9 governorates in general, and in the 30 selected districts in particular. The following are the
interventions proposed specifically to improve the health status of Yemeni children.
10.  The Ministry of Public Health's Health Sector Reform (HSR) proposal to strengthen the district
health system is the basis for the proposed health activities below.2  Community representatives and
health staff will work together to plan, implement, and monitor health activities. Health components,
such as IMCI and Safe Motherhood, are therefore "horizontal" extensions from the central "district
system" rather than "vertical," independent operations. An exception is the immunization operation,
which retains some of its vertical character.
Sub-component 1: District Health System (US$5.26 million)
11.  The current health system in Yemen is a network of health units (HU), health centers (HC), and
district, governorate, and central hospitals. While the Government is committed to improving the ability
of these health facilities to deliver health services, an analysis of health facilities shows that a simple
reinforcement of the current situation would not improve coverage and effectiveness, particularly for
women and children. This is because of the underlying problems, which include: (i) weak management
and support from the district health offices to the facilities, and inadequate supervision; (ii) poor financial
management and lack of O&M budget for providing basic services at the HlUs and HCs; (iii) inadequate
public awareness/education programs concerning household health behaviors and referral systems; and
(iv) an inadequate system with which to monitor diseases and services.
12.  The project will support the strengthening of the district health system, which will include building
the capacity of the district health management teams (DHMT) for supporting district level facilities. The
DHMT will be comprised of a director and an individual each for drug supply, training, MCH, and social
' For background and details please refer to the consultant reports on current health system and recommendations for reform in
Yemen,Vincent Litt, 1998 and Alain Lefevre, 1999.
2 Please refer to the Operations Manual for a detailed description on how the project fits within and supports the reform efforts of
the Ministry of Health.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 13
mobilization.3 Key tasks of the DHMT are to: (i) plan for and develop District Health Development
Plans; (ii) enforce minimum standards and quality in HiUs and HCs; (iii) collect and collate data from
health facilities; and (iv) provide guidance and support to community initiatives and the health facilities,
including comprehensive supervision. The DHMTs are expected to work closely with the Local
Development Committees (or their Health sub-group) in their respective districts. GTZ, using its model
derived from other successful operations, will support in establishing and strengthening the DHMTs.
UNICEF will work closely with GTZ and will build upon and sustain what is set up through ongoing
technical support both from Sana'a and from the govemorate area-based offices.
13.  As part of health system development, the project will also help improve the capacity of the
govemorate health offices to support the district health offices, and operationalize cost-sharing and
maintenance schemes. Cost-sharing schemes will be developed with the team at the facility level, and
could include full cost recovery on a revolving drug scheme and, perhaps (only if communities decide),
consultations and lab fees according to the Government's new proposed law. The funds from the cost-
sharing schemes will be used for a variety of tasks, such as O&M and incentives for staff, and will still be
in accordance with the law.
14.  In addition to supporting the health system development and training mentioned above, the project
would help rehabilitate and equip HUs, HCs, and three pilot referral facilities4 for obstetrics and pediatric
emergencies. Case management to deal with common health problems will be improved in these facilities
through adequate supplies, training of staff (see IMCI component below), and techn'cal support from the
DHMTs, Government, and UNICEF on an ongoing basis. A system of monitoring and supervision will
also be established at the district level.
Implementation: For detailed implementation roles and schedules, refer to the Project Implementation
Volume.
Project Inputs: Project would finance: works for rehabilitating three pilot referral facilities, health
centers, and health units; goods for equipping of the above mentioned facilities; training of the DHMTs,
and governorate personnel where necessary; technical assistance on information and monitoring system
design; and some operational costs, including those for monitoring and supervision. Provision of
supplies in these facilities to deal with common childhood illnesses is discussed under the IMCI
component below.
Sub-component 2: IMCI for Acute Respiratory Infections and Other Diseases
Control (US$8.49 million)4
15.  On average, in developing countries acute Respiratory Infections (ARI) are responsible for about
20 percent of total deaths among children under age 5 or about 20,000 deaths annually in Yemen. The
determinants of ARI are not completely understood, but measles, pertussis, low birth weight, PEM,
crowding, and living in high altitudes may be responsible. The treatments of ARI in most health care
facilities are inadequate. Many health care professionals are not trained to deal with ARI cases and
usually prescribe costly antibiotics without proper investigation. Parents are also not aware of the signs
and symptoms of serious ARI.
3Would also be a team member (along with the governorate area-based officers, UNICEF communications officer, and others as
required) in the social mobilization activity under the Community Readiness component.
4 Refer to the Operations Manual for the defined functions of the HU, HC, and District Referral Hospitals/Facilities.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 13
16.  Similarly, about 20 percent of all deaths in developing countries of children under age 5 are from
diarrhea; Yemen is no exception. An estimated 18,000 children die from diarrhea in Yemen annually.
An average Yemeni child suffers from diarrhea between 5 and 9 times a year. This translates into a total
of 17.5 to 31.5 million diarrheal episodes each year. Currently, YEDCO produces, on average, 1.5
million oral rehydration solution (ORS) sachets, enough to treat only 750,000 episodes. Inadequate
investment in drinking water schemes have contributed to the problem (see Water Schemes component
below). Furthermore, knowledge of and demand for ORS is not high--the 1992 DHS survey shows that
over 50 percent of respondents in the rural areas had not even heard of ORS. Case management of
diarrhea in health care facilities is inadequate and is characterized by frequent use of antibiotics and anti-
diarrheal drugs, which are ineffective as well as costly to patients.
17.  In addition, other diseases such as malaria and measles are also endemic in Yemen. According to a
recent social assessment, malaria has become a major concern of certain communities.
18.  Until recently, MOPH's approach for resolving these problems had been both inadequate in terms
of funding and inappropriate in its vertical character. It gave little effort to integrating the program at the
district health facilities level. As part of its HSR efforts, however, MOPH has considered integrating
programs.
19.  An Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI) strategy will be used to address these
health issues. IMCI is a new global strategy being promoted by WHO and UNICEF. It targets five major
child killers: acute respiratory infections, diarrheal diseases, malaria, measles, and malnutrition.
Following the introduction and adaptation process, health workers will be trained intensively to manage
sick children not only for a single illness but for complicated illnesses in a holistic approach.
Specifically, the approach will focus on: (a) improving case management skills of health workers; (b)
improving the quality of the health facilities with the provision of drugs and supplies, better organization
of work, and supervision and quality control; and (c) improving household health behaviors through a
strong community engagement and education program. Technical support for this component is expected
from the WHO Regional office on a regular basis throughout the implementation period.
20.  Training will be carried out for physicians and health workers on the IMCI approach and
complementary feeding and household/community nutrition actions. All training will include training on
community and family health care practices. In addition to the WHO support mentioned above, UNICEF
will hire an international IMCI consultant for two years to conduct these training programs and ensure
that adequate standards are being met and quality maintained in the health facilities.
21.  The project will also help stock the HUs and HCs with adequate medical supplies, including
essential drugs for properly handling cases of ARI, measles, pneumonia, malaria, severe diarrhea, and
malnutrition. The project will procure and distribute ORS for diarrheal episodes in the 9 govemorates.
22.  The project will also support a feasibility study of private sector options in order to increase
production and improve distribution of ORS. The project will also explore the possibility of contracting
ORS production/supply to the private sector (including bottled water companies) on a competitive basis
(where YEDCO would also be allowed to participate).
23.  As malaria is endemic in Yemen, the project will support: (a) exploring community production
capacity and social acceptance of bed nets in a few locations where malaria has been detected; and (b)
improving management of malaria cases in the district health facilities.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 13
24.  Strong social marketing will be carried out to increase the demand for ORS. As discussed in the
District Health System component above, trained health workers and the social mobilization teams will
reach out to individuals and families with pertinent health information.
Implementation: For detailed implementation roles and schedules, refer to the Project Implementation
Volume.
Project Inputs: Project would finance: technical assistance to help introduce IMCI and maintain quality,
assess private sector options for ORS production and distribution, and develop case management
protocols; goods such as medical supplies, relevant medications/essential drugs, and ORS sachets/raw
materials; training in IMCI and complementary feeding; and some operational costs.
Sub-component 3: Immunization Program (US$5.15 million)5
25.  Immunization targets diseases (measles, tetanus, diphtheria, whooping cough, tuberculosis,
poliomyelitis, and Hepatitis B) which result in high mortality and morbidity rates in Yemen. Accurate
data on the incidence of these diseases is unavailable due to lack of a national system of disease
surveillance. The Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI) coverage rate (total) was about 75 percent
in 1990 (all antigens except measles), but it has fallen to 57 percent in 1996 and to only 28 percent in
1997 (DHS summary report, 1997). MOPH preliminary reports indicate that coverage is rising again, and
the Ministry has recently shown commitment to EPI expansion, contributing as much as 45 percent of
program costs last year.
26.  The project will fund the immunization program of the government in the 9 govemorates (which
will cover approximately 50 percent of all eligible children in the country). It is expected that the
government and donors, such as UNICEF (independently) and WHO, will cover funding for
immunization in the other governorates. The project is expected to raise the coverage rate of the six
vaccines in these governorates to 90 percent between 2000 and 2004.
27.  Hepatitis B is a public health problem in Yemen, and the MOPH has made a policy to provide this
vaccine to all infants. Although reliable data is not available, one study did show that almost 10 percent
of a sample of blood donors tested positive (Public Health Lab, recent but not dated). The project will
support the MOPH in introducing the vaccine in the 30 project districts. Careful supervision and
monitoring of the introduction of the vaccine will be carried out and lessons learned used for further
expansion by the Ministry in subsequent years.
28.  EPI is a national program with time-bound goals and the governorate-wide support will raise
national EPI coverage and accelerate achieving the government's immunization goals. However, the
project, with its district health system (DHS) approach, will ensure that districts' (those in which the
project operates) capacity in planning and management increases, and that EPI is systematically
integrated into the district health plans and more responsibility for execution of EPI begins to rest with the
governorates and DHMTs rather than at the central level.
29.  Strengthening of the cold-chain system is being undertaken through Japanese Government support
and, therefore, will not be supported by the project. Instead, the project would use the infrastructure
already in place. A strong Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) program (including
television and radio spots) will be supported to raise awareness of the importance of vaccinating children,
since parents in rural areas do not always understand the importance of timely shots for their children.
5 Background Document: UNICEF Program Plan of Operations 1999-2001.



Annex 2
Page 6 of 13
Implementation: For detailed implementation roles and schedules, refer to the Project Implementation
Volume.
Project Inputs: Project would finance: goods such as vaccines and accessories; technical assistance with
an EPI facilitator for 3 years and IEC activities; training of EPI health workers; and some operational
costs.
Sub-component 4: Safe Motherhood (US$0.56 million) 6
30. In order to address issues related to early child deaths, maternal and reproductive health issues
must be addressed. Yemen's estimated Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR) is one of the highest in the
world, from 1000 to 1400 per 100,000 live births. The reported direct causes of maternal deaths in
Yemen are bleeding (38 percent), ruptured uterus with complications during cesarean section (23
percent), and eclampsia and puerperal sepsis (19 percent each). Among the factors that contribute to
unsafe motherhood are early marriage, heavy workload in the home, infectious diseases, malnutrition, and
other socio-economic conditions. Many mothers who survive pregnancy deliver still births or babies with
low birth weights (19 percent of total births). Forty percent of all infant deaths in the neonatal period are
due to intra-uterine insults.
31.  The basic health and MCH services are inadequate (coverage rates of less than 45 percent and 30
percent, respectively) and of poor quality. The attendance rates for antenatal, delivery, and postpartum
care are only 26 percent, 16 percent, and 5 percent respectively. The majority of women (87 percent) in
rural areas deliver at home. Home deliveries are often unclean and unsafe, and are usually unattended by
a trained practitioner. Costs, absence of female health care providers, lack of knowledge, and poor
quality care are the factors that inhibit the use of MCH facilities.
32.  The project will enhance the capacity of the district health facilities to deal with deliveries through
the training of outreach workers who can convey health and nutrition information, attend during delivery
with clean birthing kits, and help refer complicated cases to the HUs, HCs, and district hospitals. A
strong focus of the project will be to develop confidence (through outreach) in communities to visit HUs
and HCs for pre- and postnatal care and for deliveries. Some HUs already have trained midwives as part
of their regular staff. In those facilities where midwives are not available, the MOPH will ensure that at
least one trained midwife is available prior to receiving project inputs.7 Referrals of complicated cases to
the district hospitals with ambulances and communication equipment (see District Health System sub-
component) will also be piloted and evaluated.
33.  The component will complement the activities of UNFPA. UNFPA has a major program (US$18
million until 2001) on reproductive health, including provision of contraceptives for family planning. As
'smaller families' is the best measure for improving maternal and child health, the project will coordinate
in five overlapping governorates with UNFPA and associated NGOs such as the Family Care Association.
More specifically, coordination is expected in advocacy and outreach, surveys, and the provision of
contraceptives and trained midwives in project HUs and HCs. The details of such coordination are
already being worked out between UNICEF and UNFPA.
Implementation: For detailed implementation roles and schedules, refer to the Project Implementation
Volume.
6 Background Document: UNICEF Progran Plan of Operations 1999-2001.
7Training of midwives is currently being carried out with UJNFPA support.



Annex 2
Page 7 of 13
Project Inputs: Project would finance: goods including midwifery/clean delivery kits, ambulance and
communication equipment for the referral facilities; training of outreach workers; and some operational
costs.
Sub-component 5: Water Schemes (US$6.29 million)8
34.  Clean drinking water and sanitation are critical for preventing diarrhea and other water-borne
diseases.9 In Yemen, only 55 percent of the rural population has access to safe drinking water and only
17 percent has access to adequate sanitation. Much of the government water operations in rural areas are
not adequately planned, are under-funded, and communities are not involved in their operations.
Schemes are therefore unsustainable and have also contributed to the depletion of water resources and
certain areas risk entirely depleting their water supply in the medium term. However, with assistance
from the World Bank and other donors, concerted efforts are being made and a national water strategy is
being developed, which foresees measures to bring groundwater depletion under control.
35.  The water schemes component under the project, working closefy with GAREWS and the proposed
Water Supply and Sanitation Project, will provide drinking water and sanitation services in the
communities of selected districts and will be implemented in a manner that is consistent with the national
water policy. During implementation, the project will coordinate closely with the proposed Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Project, the Social Fund for Development Project and the Public Works Project
while planning interventions in specific locations.  Once the proposed Water Project is ready,
consideration would be given to transferring responsibility for schemes in those common areas where this
project would become operational. UNICEF is already working closely with the preparation team of the
Water Project in designing the pilots in three areas where UNICEF has a presence.
36.  The project will offer technology options (where such options are available) to communities and
will expect the community to contribute at least 10 percent in capital costs and 100 percent of recurrent
costs. Among the technologies available are springs and rainwater harvesting, motorized schemes, and
hand pumps.
Implementation: For detailed implementation roles and schedules, refer to the Project Implementation
Volume.
Project Inputs: Project would finance: technical assistance for designing environmentally-safe water
schemes for communities in selected districts and initiate innovative methods for management of
community water systems, including cost-sharing; works and related supplies for building community
water systems, including motorized water schemes, rainwater collectors, and hand pumps; and training of
local community members on management and cost-sharing.
Component 3: Nutrition Activity (US$1.51 million)'0
37.  The main objective of the nutrition component is to reduce child malnutrition and growth failure in
the selected districts using sustainable and effective approaches.  Nationally, the prevalence of
underweight, stunting, and wasting among children are reported to be 30 percent, 44 percent, and 13
percent, respectively, and is expected to be higher in the selected districts given that they are more
s Background Document: UNICEF Program Plan of Operations 1999-2001.
9 Close access to clean water is also helpful in relieving girls from the daily task of carrying, so that they may attend schools.
10 Triple-A Nutrition Approach, The Oman Nutrition Team Report, 1998.



Annex 2
Page 8 of 13
disadvantaged. These rates have remained unchanged for over a decade, reflecting the deep-seated nature
of these problems. The incidence of low birth-weight in Yemen is 19 percent, and some evidence also
shows that the body-mass index of adult women is low, indicating chronic energy deficits. In addition,
micronutrient deficiencies, particularly iodine, iron, and vitamin A are endemic in Yemen. Total goiter
rates exceed 30 percent and anemia rates of up to 90 percent have been reported by some studies.
38.  With the exception of iodine deficiency, which is now being controlled through universal salt
iodization, there are no policies and programs to address the other nutritional deficiencies and low birth
weight. Food shortages may be an issue in some areas. Food supplementation was considered but found
to be difficult to administer in Yemen. Also, as it is not part of the Health Sector Reform of the Ministry
of Public Health, it does not have the political support. In addition, WFP, with which the project is
expected to overlap in 5 of the 9 governorates, is involved heavily in food provision (US$22 millior'
until 2001). WFP is expected to provide food to pregnant and lactating mothers and malnourished
children from some 32 Health Centers and their associated Health Units. Trained health workers will
identify those in need and a 'food basket' including wheat soya blend, sugar, oil, and pulses will be
provided for the needed duration. UNICEF has already started working closely with WFP in developing
a framework for close collaboration during implementation.
39.  Also, it must be noted that malnutrition in children in Yemen (as elsewhere) is caused by multiple
factors such as repeated diseases, misallocation of nutritious food due to socio-economic reasons,
insufficient maternal care, qat chewing, local food beliefs, etc. Since the early 1970s, breast-feeding has
declined. The prevalence of exclusive breast feeding of children ages 4 to 6 months is only 5 percent.
40.  Given the above, the central focus of the nutrition component will be the Community "Triple-A"
(assessment-analysis-action) and social mobilization approaches that UNICEF successfully tried in other
countries, most notably Oman. Strengthening assessment (by establishing a community-based monitoring
system) and analysis (by introducing a conceptual framework outlining the causes of malnutrition and
their interrelationships) will subsequently improve action at the community level. The strategy will be
integrated at the district-level facilities and will complement the IMCI approach (see IMCI sub-
component) being established at that level for tackling multiple childhood diseases and conditions.
Together, these interventions are expected to tackle the deep-seated determinants of nutritional
deficiencies in children in a thorough and long-lasting way.
41.  Low birth weight, which is similarly multifaceted, is also being tackled by the project in the
following ways: (a) dispensing iron folate to mothers; (b) dispensing Vitamin A to children; and (c)
promoting nutrition during pregnancy. All of the other health and nutrition interventions mentioned
above are also expected to help tackle this problem.
Implementation: For detailed implementation roles and schedules, refer to the Project Implementation
Volume.
Project Inputs: Project would finance: technical assistance for setting up nutrition surveillance and
analysis, as well as management and supervision for establishing the Triple-A process/social
mobilization; goods, including growth-monitoring equipment such as scales, registers, and forms, and
micronutrients; and some operational costs.
Includes US$14 million in food as incentives for girls to attend schools and also "food for work," discussed under the
Community Schools component.



Annex 2
Page 9 of 13
Component 4: Education Activity (US$9.12 million)
42.  Enrollment at the basic level has expanded over ten-fold in the past two decades, with an estimated
total enrollment in grades 1 to 6 grades of 1.9 million today, compared to just over 217,000 in 1970.
However, the following educational indicators in basic education show that much work remains, and a
more serious and concerted strategy is required to achieve the objective of universal basic education:
* Gross basic enrollment ratio of girls is unacceptably low at 40 percent, much below their male
counterparts' ratio of 80 percent;
* Achievement level is too unacceptably low for students to become functional in modern society;
* Major variations exist in terms of enrollment, pupil-teacher ratio, availability of appropriate
classrooms and essential facilities (sanitation and hygiene), and average expenditure per child
enrolled by Govemorates, within Governorates, and between urban and rural areas;
* Proportion of women teachers is low at 21 percent of the total teaching force, but is even worse in
rural areas; and
* Much of the resources in education (more than 80 percent of the recurrent budget) is consumed by
salaries, leaving little available for the timely and adequate provision of textbooks and educational
materials, or the supervision of teaching.
43.  The GOY's commitment to decentralization and civil service reform, including the restructuring of
the Ministry of Education, has created a favorable environment for sustainable reforms. The project is
expected to fit well with the current reforms initiated by the MOE, particularly the reform envisaged
under the proposed Basic Education Expansion Project (BEEP). The rapidly-growing education sector
needs to operate within a sustainable framework that allows efficient management, fiscal discipline,
strong participation of communities, and appropriate technical inputs to improve the overall quality.
44. The project is designed to assist the GOY in increasing access, learning achievement, and grade 6
completion rates in selected districts in the 9 Govemorates. To achieve this objective, the project will
focus on increasing girls' enrollment and retention through setting up community schools, increasing the
proportion of women teachers and providing them with appropriate training, and improving textbook
storage and distribution so that every child in the project area receives textbooks and educational
materials on time.
Sub-component 1: Community Schools for Girls (US$5.96 million)'2
45.  As mentioned above, girls' enrollment rate at the basic education level is unacceptably low. The
enrollment and persistence of girls in schools are related to various factors, including physical access.
Extensive social assessment shows that community schools that address the concerns of parents are
important for reaching girls. There were about 10,000 schools in 1998 and about 37,000 villages with
populations greater than 300. When, for social reasons, girls cannot leave their villages, the absence of a
local school is a serious impediment to schooling. Parents in five or six hamlets in Hodeidah and all of
the hamlets studied in Ibb (both project Govemorates) complained that schools are too far from home
(one to two hours walking distance in some cases).
12 Female Education and Community Participation in Yemen, Uzma Anzar, 1998 and Management Note on the Education
Component, Brajesh Panth, 1998.



Annex 2
Page 10 of 13
46.  Other factors that discourage girls from attending schools include: poor quality of education; high
demand for child labor; early marriage; late starts in schools, as well as dropping out after reaching
adolescence due to the absence of separate provision for girls' classrooms; lack of water and latrines; lack
of women teachers, etc.
47.  The community schools proposed by the project are designed to address these issues for girls and
their families. A community school will be established where: (i) there is no school and there are at least
50 potential girl students who are between ages of 6 and 15 who can attend the new school; or (ii) there is
a basic school which serves students in the surrounding villages but where a large proportion of girls are
either not attending school or have dropped out. The project will build new schools, rehabilitate old
classrooms, and provide sanitary facilities where none exist, and schools kits will be provided.
Furthermore, as an incentive, those schools in the intervention districts that enroll the highest proportion
of girls will also receive annual school kits."3
48.  The project will help build the capacity of the district education offices to carry out their functions,
which include teacher supervision and support, teacher re-deployment based on needs, support with
textbooks distribution, and collection and analysis of education data from schools and reporting to
governorate offices. Technical assistance to improve the supervision and evaluation system will be
provided and supervisors will be trained. Supervision travel allowances will also be provided as
incentives for supervisors.
49. To improve the quality of teaching and learning, the project will also support the start of Cluster
Education Committees (CECs) comprised of senior/qualified teachers (possibly rotating). The CECs will
be responsible for about 15 schools in selected districts. This means that there can be several CECs in
one particular district. The CEC will be physically located in one of the schools. Key roles of the CEC
will include the following: (i) to provide refresher training to its teachers for five to ten days every year;
(ii) to conduct monthly meetings to discuss teachers' problems on subject matters; (iii) to develop locally-
tailored supplementary instructional materials; (iv) to visit schools to identify their problems and seek
solutions; (v) to maintain MIS for the schools in the cluster; (vi) to provide location of contact for
teachers to get their distance learning instructional materials;14 (vii) to link up with PTAs as well as with
the district-level offices for support; and (viii) to organize social functions for social mobilization and
fund raising purposes. CEC members will be trained and their work will be supported by the DEOs and
the govemorate area-based officers.
50. The project will also support study tours for key MOE staff in the selected districts to learn from
innovative community-based schooling operations in other countries.
Implementation: For detailed implementation roles and schedules, refer to the Project Implementation
Volume.
Project Inputs: Project would finance: technical assistance on design of supervision and evaluation
systems, and study visits to innovative community-based school programs; training of CEC members
and supervisors; works for building and rehabilitating schools and classrooms, related supplies, furniture,
and school kits; and some operational support.
13 Food incentives for girls provided by WFP might also be available in some schools in the five overlapping govemorates.
4 IDA-funded Basic Education Project has a distance education component which is currently being implemented.



Annex 2
Page 1 1 of 13
Sub-component 2: Women Teacher Training (US$2.06 million)"
51.  UNICEF's experience in Yemen shows that one of the impediments to the entrance and attendance
of girls in schools is the inadequate supply of women teachers. While the social assessment (conducted in
selected locations) stated the importance of women teachers above the primary education level, it is
important to note that women teachers are preferred to male teachers at all levels by parents intending to
send their daughters to school. Also, women teachers represent only 21 percent of all teachers at the basic
education level (i.e., 18,000 out of 85,000), which is in itself a significant reason to train and hire more
women teachers. Furthermore, only 30 percent of women teachers are in the rural areas, where their
demand is highest.
52.  The qualification and training of teachers is inadequate. Most teachers are graduates of secondary
schools and are trained in low-quality, two-year training institutes. In addition, UNICEF had agreed with
the Ministry of Education that women secondary school graduates (or even lower grades) from rural areas
would be identified and provided with three-week pre-service training, after which the Government would
hire them as teachers. While the Ministry wants to expand its pool of women teachers by hiring annually
as many as 2000 graduates from this program, the poor quality of teaching has remained a concern.
53.  The project will support the improved version of the UNICEF model presented above to provide
targeted (4320 teachers over a period of 5 years), quality training to women candidates. While the
innovative method of selecting eligible teachers will be retained, the following approach will be used to
improve the effectiveness and availability of women teachers in rural areas: (i) compliance with the
norms spelled out in the new teacher law, which stipulates that the lowest level of eligibility will be Grade
12; (ii) improved pre-service training of at least 4 weeks; and (iii) 5 to 10 days of refresher training by the
CECs (introduced earlier). The trained teachers will be deployed in project districts where demand for
women teachers is high.
Implementation: For detailed implementation roles and schedules, refer to the Project Implementation
Volume.
Project Inputs: Project would finance: technical assistance for improvement of the current UNICEF
training methodology; training of trainers based on improved methodology, and pre-service and refresher
training of women teachers; and some operational costs.
Sub-component 3: Textbooks Storage and Distribution (US$1.10 million)16
54.  An assessment showed that the printing presses in Sana'a and Aden have the ability to produce
enough books for all school children. Production, however, is supply driven (based on student population
in governorates and funds available) rather than demand-led (e.g., requests from schools). The books are
not durable and consequently have a life-span of one year at best. Basic education textbooks in other
developing countries usually last up to two years for the first three grades.
55.  The management and logistics to store and distribute books are ineffective. Schools frequently
receive their books after the start of the term and in insufficient quantities. Storage facilities in the
governorates are of very poor quality or are nonexistent, leading to wastage. The distribution from the
Central Printing Press in Sana'a and Aden is being supported by the Japanese through the provision of
5 Background Document: UNICEF Program Plan of Operations 1999-2001.
16 Learning Materials in Basic Education in the ROY, Mark Cohen, 1998.



Annex 2
Page 12 of 13
trucks. However, distribution from the governorate warehouses to the schools is a problem since no real
system currently exists. The Printing Press does provide some funds for the transfer of books to the
district education offices and/or schools, but it is inadequate.
56.   The project will support building and rehabilitating  5 governorate warehouses to support
distribution of textbooks and educational materials in the 9 project governorates '  As part of the
improvement in the distribution system, the existing distribution system will be reviewed and a limited
computerized inventory system designed and started. Relevant training will be provided to warehouse
and supplies department staff. The project will support, in a limited manner, the transportation of books
from the governorate warehouses to the DEOs and/or schools. As part of the Community Schools
component, the project will also provide book storage cabinets in every classroom that is built or
refurbished.
Implementation: For detailed implementation roles and schedules, refer to the Project Implementation
Volume.
Project Inputs: Project would finance: technical assistance for reviewing existing distribution system
and computerized inventory systems; works for building and rehabilitating governorate warehouses;
goods such as computers, and related supplies; training in warehousing; and limited operational
support for book transportation.
Component 5: Pilot Early Child Development (US$0.52 million)18
57.   Many disadvantaged parents in Yemen are unable to provide, in addition to basic essentials such as
food and health care, adequate care and learning environments at home for their children. The social
assessment conducted for the project has identified this as a major issue for poor families in rural areas.
Lack of these essential ingredients and environments in early childhood years has been linked to reduced
learning capacity in children. As a result, children from these backgrounds either do not enter or fail
quickly upon entering school, thus perpetuating the vicious cycle of poverty into the next generation.
58.   There is ample evidence from around the world that, when correctly and adequately provided, early
childhood care and education services can influence children's entry into, and their persistence and
achievement within, schools. These services can also free up time for very poor mothers, which can help
them earn additional income for the family.
59.  In Yemen, some private programs for working mothers are available for children in urban and
semi-urban areas. However, little information on the quantity and quality of these services is known. The
situation in the rural areas for disadvantaged families is even more vague. It is probably fair to assume
that a strong network of informal support systems is in place to help mothers cope with childcare
responsibilities. These include support from older family members, including older siblings, and
community friends. The emotional and psychological development of children is structured by these
circumstances and is in tune with how Yemeni society wants their children to grow up. Anecdotal
17 The task team has considered the new Bank Textbook Policy, which encourages, to the extent possible, the private sector in the
production and distribution process. Yemen currently has a very small private publishing/printing capacity. Given that paper
(which is 70 percent of the book cost) is imported using ICB procedures, the Government printing press delivers books at
reasonable costs. The project will utilize the local private groups to transport books from the govemorate level to the districts
and schools.
18 For details on information requirements for possible pilot programs, please refer to Early Child Development in Yemen and
Elsewhere Robert LeVine, 1998.



Annex 2
Page 13 of 13
evidence, however, suggests that few structured programs to foster physical, cognitive, and language
development exist in the rural areas for those who would benefit most from such interventions prior to
entering schools.
60.  The government has shown commitment to what is termed 'kindergarten' programs in its ongoing
Five Year Plan. In addition, the National Strategy and Plan to Develop Motherhood and Childhood
(1997-2002) of the Higher Council for Children and Women proposes some policies and interventions in
the areas of early childhood development. Very little information exists, however, in this area to develop
sound policies and make informed decisions concerning interventions.
61.  The proposed pilot program is expected to generate relevant information for supporting the
Government in its efforts to develop community-based, workable, and financially-sustainable policies
and strategies for developing programs for children in their early years if and where it is necessary.
The main activities that the pilot program would support are:
*  the study of child rearing practices, child care needs, and child care services that are currently
available for highly-disadvantaged families in urban and rural areas. Concerning the latter, the
focus of observations and surveys will be on assessing if minimum safety standards are being met,
if caregivers are trained, and if the curriculum and care-giving practices are age- and culture-
appropriate and supportive of child's learning and development;
*  to implement and evaluate community-based, workable, and financially-sustainable early
childhood program models that the Government may help subsidize for those in highly-
disadvantaged circumstances in rural and semi-urban areas. Communities will be consulted
(particularly with respect to financing) before decisions on models to be tried are made. Pilots will
be conducted under careful supervision, and data on children's growth and cognitive and language
development will be collected in a systematic manner to assess impact; and
*  based on the findings from the above-mentioned surveys and pilots, to support the Government in
developing a comprehensive policy (including minimum standards) for early child development
programs in the Republic of Yemen. The guidelines would also help streamline ongoing and
future private operations.
Implementation: For detailed implementation roles and schedules, refer to the Project Implementation
Volume.
Project Inputs: Project would finance: technical assistance for studies on child rearing practices, child
care needs, and care facilities, both private and public and in rural and urban areas; and all other activities
associated with the pilots; ECD related goods and possible limited works for ECD facilities.
Component 6: Project Management (US$2.26 million)
62.  As discussed in the Institutional Arrangements section, the project will be the responsibility of the
Yemeni Council for Motherhood and Childhood and it will be implemented with the support of the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and UNICEF. The roles of the various agencies and the details of the
implementation arrangements are described in the Implementation Manual.
Project Inputs: Project will finance: technical assistance (staffing); goods, including computers, office
equipment, and vehicles; and the operational budget of the Project Coordinating Unit of the Yemeni
Council and UNICEF.



Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
Republic of Yemen
Child Development Project
Estimated Project Costs by Project Component
% of
Project Component              Local   Foreign   Total    % as
foreign base
foreign cost
------ (US$ millions) ------
1. Community Readiness Program               0.64     0.69     1.33    52        3
2. Health Activity
(a) District Health System                2.32     2.94     5.26    56        13
(b) IMCI Program                          0.78     7.72     8.49    91        21
(c) Immunization                          0.50     4.65     5.15    90        13
(d) Safe Motherhood                       0.25     0.31     0.56    56         1
(e) Water and Sanitation Schemes          2.35     3.94     6.29    63        16
Subtotal     6.21    19.55    25.76    76        64
3. Nutrition Activity                        0.26     1.25      1.51    83        4
4. Education Activity
(a) Community Schools                     3.25     2.70     5.96    45        15
(b) Female Teacher Training               1.36     0.70     2.06    34        5
(c) Textbooks Storage/Distribution        0.61     0.48      1.10    44       3
Subtotal     5.23     3.89     9.12    43        23
5. Pilot ECD Activity                        0.22     0.31     0.52    58         1
6. Project Management                        1.28     0.98     2.26    43        6
Total Baseline Costs                        13.84    26.67    40.51    66        100
Physical Contingencies                    0.58      2.01     2.66    78        7
Price Contingencies                       0.68      1.45     2.13    68        5
Total Project Costs                         15.10    30.20    45.30    67        112
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Estimated Project Costs by Expenditure Category
% of
Expenditure Category            Local   Foreign   Total    % as    total
foreign    base
cost
------ (US$ millions) ------
1. Investment Costs
(a) Civil Works
Rehabilitation                     1.67     1.12    2.79     40        7
New Construction                  2.64      2.16    4.79     45        12
Subtotal     4.31     3.27    7.58     43        19
(b) Goods
Vaccines and Accessories          0.24     4.53    4.77      95        12
Oral Rehydration Solutions        0.15     2.79    2.94      95        7
Medical Supplies                  0.29      5.58    5.88     95        15
Medical Equipment                 0.06      1.17    1.23     95        3
General Equipment                 0.12      2.31    2.43     95        6
School kits                       0.02     0.38    0.40      95        1
Computers                         0.01      0.16    0.17     95        -
Vehicles                          0.01      0.22    0.24     95        1
Furniture                         0.58     0.39    0.96      40        2
Subtotal     1.48    17.53   19.01     92        47
(c) Training
Workshops                         2.66      1.14    3.80     30        9
Study Visits                      0.01      0.12    0.13     95        -
Subtotal     2.67     1.26    3.93     32        10
(d) Consulting Services
International Specialists         0.17      1.52    1.69     90        4
Local Specialists                 0.84      0.21    1.04     20        3
Arch/Engin Specialists            0.49      0.12    0.61     20        1
Subtotal     1.49     1.85    3.34     55        8
(e) Project Management
UNICEF Fee                            -     0.65    0.65     100       2
Management Operation               1.26     0.22    1.48      15       4
Total Investment    11.21    24.78   35.98     69       89
II. Recurrent Costs
(a) Operational Support                0.27      0.18    0.46     40        1
(b) Textbook Distribution              0.13      0.09    0.22     40        1
(c) Monitoring and Supervision         0.93      0.62    1.55     40        4
(d) Maintenance and Repair
Building                         0.38     0.16    0.55      30        1
Equipment                        0.81     0.81    1.62      50       4
Furniture                        0.11     0.03    0.13     20        -
Total Recurrent     2.63     1.89    4.52     42        11
Total Baseline Costs                        13.84    26.67   40.51      66       100
Physical Contingencies             0.58     2.08    2.66     78        7
Price Contingencies                0.68     1.45    2.13     68        5
Total Project Costs                         15.10    30.20   45.30      67       112
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.



Annex 4
Page I of 8
Republic of Yemen
Child Development Project
Economic Analysis
1.   The economic assessment of this project is based on the directive of the Chief Economist's office
of the World Bank. This directive recognizes the difficulties, and questions the relevance, of rate-of-
return analysis in the social sectors and suggests, instead, providing: (i) a rationale for public-sector
intervention; (ii) an examination of the fiscal impact; and (iii) an analysis of the cost benefit or cost-
effectiveness of the proposed activities. In the social sectors, a cost-benefit analysis may not be possible
and cost-effectiveness analysis would be more appropriate.
2.   A cost-benefit analysis was attempted, but the monetary flow of benefits could not be calculated
because of data constraints and the difficulty of assigning a monetary value to mortality and morbidity
reductions. Instead, the project answers the following questions: (i) is there a rationale for public-sector
intervention, including alternatives such as the private-sector intervention; (ii) what is the fiscal impact of
the project; (iii) what is the cost-per-beneficiary of the major interventions; and (iv) is the project cost
effective?
The Role of the Private Sector and the Rationale for Public-Sector Intervention
3.   Project interventions are generally public-sector activities. But because of the Government's
shortcomings in service delivery, public-private collaboration is key. Private, for-profit provision and
financing of services is not a viable alternative to public-sector intervention, however, because of
externalities, poverty reduction, and equity arguments.
Role of the Private Sector
4.    The Government has primary responsibility for financing and implementing the project. The
private sector will be key, though, as the project will be implemented through public-private partnerships
comprised of community groups and private contractors in the education, health, and water sectors.
Given the low levels of public expenditure, especially in the health sector (less than US$4.50 per capita),
beneficiary cost-sharing to help meet the recurrent needs in all sectors is also an important aspect of this
project, and represents 4 percent of total project costs.
5.   In the health sector, community-managed and sustained revolving drug funds will be introduced,
and minimal user fees will be required to enhance the operations and maintenance budget. Where
possible, NGOs will provide basic primary health care at the health-unit level. Production of oral
rehydration solution (ORS) sachets by the local private sector will be explored.
6.   Community management and contributions are important in the education and water sub-
components. Communities can contribute in kind or in cash to the construction of schools and water
schemes, and they can also supervise construction. In the past, communities have contributed as much as
40 percent toward the costs of school construction. After school and water schemes are built, the
community will oversee repairs and costs. Standards for construction and maintenance will comply with
government requirements. If they do not exist or are not suitable for the task at large, requirements will
be developed together with the government.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 8
Rationale for Public-Sector Intervention
7.    Public-sector intervention is justified for the following reasons: (i) benefits target under-served
communities the private sector would not reach; (ii) lack of private-sector regulation and enforcement of
standards; (iii) externalities; (iv) poverty reduction; and (v) equity.
(i)    Targeted areas unlikely to be reached by private sector. Due to the low levels of Government
spending and poor quality of its services, the private sector is expanding in the education and
health sectors. But private schools at the basic level are still concentrated in densely populated,
rich areas, where people are able to afford high-priced education. Data from the 1997-98
education survey shows that less than 1 percent of students in grades 1 to 6 are in private school
and, of this group, over 75 percent are from the richest areas of the country: Sana'a City and Taiz
governorate. Recent social assessments on girls' education have reported that the cost of
education is a serious impediment to girls' attending school, especially in rural areas. It is
therefore unlikely that these areas would attract expensive, private-sector schools. Similarly,
private health clinics are concentrated in the major cities of just three govemorates: Hodeidah,
lbb and Hajjah, as well as Sana'a City. The clinics also charge high fees that are unaffordable to
the poor.
This project targets poor areas with high mortality among children and low school enrollment of
girls. Although the districts have not yet been chosen, they will likely be rural, poor, and less
densely-populated than the above-mentioned govemorates, and thus unlikely targets for private-
sector expansion in the near future.
(ii)   Lack of private-sector regulation and enforcement of standards. Although small private health
clinics-especially pharmacies, which sometimes replace trained health workers-are
flourishing, their services are poor and expensive. Insufficient regulation, monitoring, and
enforcement capabilities, as well as poor medical ethics, has led to a number of problems, one of
which is an emphasis on curative care. This, in turn, has lead to an over-prescription of drugs that
are overpriced or of questionable quality. Privately-provided basic health services, therefore, are
not viable alternatives to those that are publicly provided, unless there is appropriate regulation
and enforcement, proper medical standards and practice, and a risk-pooling or insurance system
to make services more affordable to the poor.
(iii) Externalities. The significant positive externalities, or benefits, resulting from the proposed basic
health, education, and water interventions (such as EPI, girls' education, safe water, and
sanitation) are well-documented.1 For example, increases in girls' enrollment rates are linked to
better child health, decreases in fertility rates and, subsequently, a decrease in population growth.
Preliminary results from the 1997 Yemen Demographic and Maternal Child Health Survey
showed that the prevalence of diarrhea-a major, often fatal illness among children in
Yemen-was lowest among children whose mothers achieved at least a secondary education: the
prevalence was highest where the mothers were illiterate. Similarly, healthy, well-nourished
children perform better in school. The need for basic interventions is great (Table 1), and the
expected positive externalities of the proposed project interventions will be high.
For more information, see Subbarao, K. and Laura Raney, Social Gains from Female Education: A Cross-
National Study, World Bank Discussion Paper 194, 1993; UNICEF, Strategies to Promote Girls' Education:
Policies and Programs that Work, NY 1992; World Development Report 1993.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 8
Table 1: Comparison of various social indicators in Yemen
Indicator                        Latest year available
Girls gross enrollment rate, 1994                          37%
Infant mortality rate, 1994                             81 per 1,000
Child mortality rate, 1994                             110 per 1,000
Malnutrition (wasting)                                     30%
Maternal mortality rate                                1000-1400 per
100,000
Total fertility rate                                        7.2
Immunization rate                                         28-50%
(depending on source)
Households with access to safe drinking water, rural      <50%
Households with access to sanitation, rural                19%
Population growth rate                                     3.7%
Source: Yemen 1994 Census, World Bank Water Strategy 1997, 1997 Preliminary DHS
(iv)  Poverty Reduction. Public-sector involvement in basic education, health, and the provision of
drinking water and sanitation is important to poverty reduction. Without interventions, the poor
are unable to escape the poverty trap. In Yemen, 85 percent of poor women and 44 percent of
poor men are illiterate, while only I percent of women and 2 percent of men with secondary
degrees are poor, thus exemplifying the need for Government intervention.
The Yemeni population is generally poor: the 1997 GDP per capita was US$360. The 1992 data
show that 19 percent of the population lives below the poverty line (see the 1996 Poverty Report).
The first two rounds of the 1998 household survey show that poverty has not changed
substantially since 1997, although poverty has become widespread because of the ensuing
economic crisis, dwindling remittances, and the 1994 civil war. Further, the average size of the
Yemeni household is 7.2 persons, so even those not living below the poverty line would have
trouble covering expenses associated with basic health care and education. The need for public-
sector intervention for poverty reduction is therefore great.
(v)   Equity. The Government must redistribute assets to the poor because the market will not do so.
In Yemen, however, few government social assistance or welfare programs exist, so the outside
provision of basic services, such as health, education, and safe drinking water, becomes an
essential means of redistribution. Interventions from this project can help to achieve equity and
will be implemented in nine govemorates that comprise more than 50 percent of the poor,
according to the 1996 Poverty Assessment.
Fiscal Impact and Cost Sharing
Fiscal Impact
8.   Over the five-year project implementation period, the government must provide US$2.4 million in
counterpart funding for both capital and recurrent costs, US$1.4 million for health-related activities,
US$0.9 million for education and ECD pilot, and US$0.7million for community readiness. The fiscal



Annex 4
Page 4 of 8
impact of the incremental recurrent cost was examined. The total project recurrent cost is US$4.8
million, which represents 11 percent of total costs. During project implementation, IDA will cover 34
percent of these costs, the GOY will cover 32 percent, and the beneficiaries 34 percent. The yearly
government recurrent contribution will be US$0.3 million, and represents only 0.1 percent of the
projected recurrent Government budgets in education and health, combined, for 1998 (or 0.32 percent and
0.04 percent, respectively, of the 1998 Government health and education budgets). The majority of the
Government recurrent expenditures covers maintenance and repairs of newly-constructed or renovated
Government buildings, as well as monitoring and supervision budgets. A small amount of the budgetis
allocated towards textbook distribution and operational support.
9.   The contribution for textbook distribution has already been allocated to the Government Printing
Press. Budgets for supervision, maintenance and repair, and operational support are to be planned during
decentralization. Decentralization of budgets to the facility level began in 1998; budgets are still modest,
however.
10.  After project implementation, the Government recurrent cost obligations will double to
approximately US$0.6 million per year. This amount still represents a small percent (0.16) of the Health
and Education Ministries' recurrent budgets. This sum will be covered by savings from the Ministries'
reform programs, which include rationalization of procedures and personnel, as well as by other
efficiency gains. The project is designed to fit into, and be a pilot for, the reforms and, as such, will be
priority. These reform programs are supported by the World Bank public expenditure review, National
Health Accounts exercise, and structural adjustment loan. Thus, the Government is expected to be
able to meet this minimal increase and meet its obligations.
11.  Cost Recovery. Beneficiary contributions during project implementation represent 4 percent of
total project costs. These community contributions to recurrent expenses are pertinent in ensuring project
sustainability and in minimizing the fiscal impact on the government, both during and after project
implementation. The community is expected to meet most of the minor building and equipment
maintenance and repair costs that are incurred due to civil works, as well as necessary facility operational
expenses in education, health, and water. This will be accomplished by helping the community to set up
cost-sharing schemes in these sectors, as is the present practice in many areas in Yemen. The financial
impact on household budgets will be minimized. In health, cost sharing will involve minimal user fees
and full cost recovery to support a revolving drug fund-immunizations and other purely public goods
will still be provided at no charge. This money will support the continuous supply of drugs to the health
facilities and some basic operating costs. To ensure equity, the worst off in these communities will be
exempted from paying. A limited negative monetary impact on the communities is likely; the alternative
would be to pay even higher prices for poor-quality drugs and services in the private market (see cost-
effectiveness section for further discussion). Community involvement in the maintenance and repair of
schools will help address the deficit in the Ministry of Education budget. The Government has neglected
many schools, now non-functional or dangerous. Communities must also pay for water usage where
drinking water schemes are implemented. These contributions will ensure that the water schemes are
maintained, the drinking water is monitored for cleanliness, and this scarce resource is not over-
consumed. These community contributions to recurrent expenses will help ensure project sustainability
and minimize the impact on the Government (see Operations Manual for further details, including
exemptions in cost to beneficiary).
Cost per beneficiary
12.  The direct cost of project interventions per year on different categories of beneficiaries forhealth,
education, and water was calculated. The per-beneficiary numbers include the recurrent and annualized
capital cost (Table 2). Per-beneficiary costs for education are similar to those of the Bangladesh Rural



Annex 4
Page 5 of 8
Advancement Committee (BRAC) and Egypt programs, which cost US$22 and US$88, respectively, in
1998 dollars.2
Table 2: Direct cost per year of the major CDP interventions (in 1998 US$)'
Educate a girl in primary schoolb   44.9   30.9   69        13.87       31        0.18      0.4
Keep a child under 5 healthyc       24.0    8.2   34         8.34       35        7.47       31
Provide clean water to a persond    20.8    0.0      0      19.04       92        1.75        8
Total                               89.7   39.1    44       41.25       46        9.40       10
Notes:
a Costs include yearly recurrent costs and annualized capital costs. See Operations Manual for full details.
b This includes direct project interventions as costed in the project. Govemment expenditures on teacher salaries and
textbooks which were not costed in the project were also included. This is a partial costing, as it does not include
ministerial overhead and the private costs of education. See Operations Manual for full details on assumptions (teacher
training and textbook component not included: they are not direct costs.)
S see note (a), above. Here, government expenditures on salaries, operations, and maintenance for health facilities were
included (district health system development was not included: it is not a direct cost.)
d Different systems could be implemented-hand pumps, water harvesters, and mechanized systems-costing an average
US$45 per person, per scheme.
Cost effectiveness
13.    The main project interventions in health and education were evaluated and found to be cost-
effective. Non-quantifiable aspects-the integrated nature of the project and appropriate targeting-
enhanced the project's cost effectiveness.
Integrated interventions
14.    The problems associated with poor health, a low level of education, and lack of knowledge about
(and access to) safe drinking water and sanitation are interrelated, and inhibit child development. As
mentioned above, education for girls is linked to overall decreased fertility rates and better health. In
turn, a healthy child performs better in school. For girls to attend school, therefore, drinking water must
be accessible in order to limit the time spent on collection and, to foster health, the water must be safe.
Integrating interventions under one project will enhance the effectiveness of each intervention and will
increase the synergy among the sectors.
Targeting
15.    To maximize the cost effectiveness of the project, the interventions will target areas that would
yield the greatest impact: these areas have the highest number of deaths among children under age 5 and
have the lowest number of girls enrolled in school. Furthermore, the project offers different needs-based
interventions in health, nutrition, water, and education. Needs and social assessments, as well as
participatory planning, will be conducted before the project is extended to new  districts.  Project
2
The costs may vary among the programs because details of what was included in the costs were not available.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 8
interventions can thus be tailored to the needs and demands of the beneficiaries, enhancing the targeting
and cost effectiveness of the interventions.
Health
16.  The main causes of death and morbidity among children in Yemen are similar to those in other
low-income countries. Causes include diarrheal diseases, acute respiratory infections, malaria, the six
major immunizable diseases, and prenatal/neonatal complications. Malnutrition and micro-nutrient
disorders are widespread and cause much child mortality and morbidity (Table 1). Due to insufficient
and unreliable data on health in Yemen, it is not possible to calculate the exact percentage of deaths
caused by these aliments or the disability-adjusted life-years (DALY) saved from the project's health
interventions. The project interventions to address the above-mentioned ailments, however, have been
shown internationally to be cost-effective.
Governorate-level interventions
17.  The cost effectiveness of the two govemorate-level sub-components, EPI and CDD, is well-
established (Table 3). The project has ensured the cost effectiveness of both in Yemen. To minimize the
waste of vaccines, the project estimated vaccination needs based on the number of settings and times the
service should be offered each month. Because of low use rates, daily vaccinations lead to waste. The
polio vaccine will be offered more times each month than the BCG, however, because its vial lasts
longer once opened; the BCG vial has more doses than does polio, and all its contents might not be used
at once. To inform communities of immunization days, social mobilization campaigns will be launched.
Collaboration with the Japanese government, a major donor of cold-chain equipment, will ensure
adequate equipment for the 9 governorates. Also, ORS sachets will be competitively procured
internationally, not automatically from the GOY's drug company theYemen Essential Drug Company
(YEDCO), which cannot currently provide the required quantities of ORS sachets.
Table 3: Cost effectiveness of various project interventions
from international experience
Intervre6fi-n             Cost 13r DALY L  S$)
EPI plus'                                      12-17
ORS for diarrhea                                25
Antibiotic therapy for ARI                      25
Iron supplementation for pregnant women        12.8
Vitamin A supplement for 0 - 5 year olds      6; 9.3
Source, World Bank 1993, WDR 1993; World Bank 1994, Enriching Lives, USAID.
Area-based interventions
18.  A cost-effectiveness analysis of the area-based health component was performed. Because the
cost effectiveness of the interventions is well-established, the analysis focuses on the management
system (District Health System) being introduced under the Child Development Project. A model is
presented which compares the total unit cost per visit (public plus private expenditures) to public health
units, centers, private pharmacies, and clinics, with the expected cost of a primary health care visit under
3 EPI interventions include regular EPI vaccinations, and may include hepatitis B and yellow fever vaccinations for
selected countries, as well as iodine supplements and vitamin A in regions where deficiencies are high.



Annex 4
Page 7 of 8
two scenarios. The first scenario simulates the present situation in Yemen in which there is a limited
mix of public and private financing. The public sector is characterized as inefficient and ineffective, and
the private sector expensive (partly due to large transportation costs, as these facilities are located in
areas that are more urban than the areas in which public facilities are found). Also, the services are often
of questionable quality. Although public-sector services are, in theory, free, drugs are rarely available
and facilities often do not function because they lack the budget for running costs. In this case, the
private sector is the only choice. In scenario two, area-based project interventions to improve the public
primary health service delivery system are introduced. These include: (i) greater harmonization of
public and private financing through the introduction of cost sharing. There is full cost recovery to
support a revolving drug scheme which allows the patient to buy drugs at the public facility for a
substantially lower price than on the private market, and a consultation fee to help support running costs;
(ii) continuous training of health workers; and (iii) supervision visits. Results are outlined below in
Table 4.
Table 4: Recurrent Expenditure per visit
T$ype o'X j 'f Fa                   Snr                             C
Health Unit
Total recurrent expenditure per visit           1192          545            54
Public recurrent expenditure per visit           381          215            68
Private recurrent expenditure per visit          811          330            59
Health Center
Total recurrent expenditure per visit           1262          886            38
Public recurrent expenditure per visit           331          256            51
Private recurrent expenditure per visit          931          530            43
The unit costs of health units and centers are based on the assumption that 90 percent of the patients will need to
purchase any drug prescribed from a private pharmacy at their own expense. This is not the case in Scenario 2
because drug availability at public facilities is assured by the introduction of a revolving drug scheme.
19. The effectiveness assumption for the model on facility utilization rates is built in for calculating
per-visit expenditures. See Table 5, below, for the assumptions. A sensitivity analysis was preformed.
Only a 3 percent increase in the utilization rates from scenario 1 to 2 is needed to produce positive
results (a full report, including a more detailed analysis, will be available in the project file).
Table 5: Utilization rates assumption for primary health care
Faclit           Scnai .= * 5 .I    scearog 2
Health unit             10%           20%
Health center           25%           35%
20.   The ABP evaluation report also gave a positive, cost-effective report, though the method was
different from that of the one above (see project file for this report).
Education
21.   The returns of girls' education are well known, and the potential social benefits from educating
females are large, given Yemen's high population growth rate and poor child health. This project does



Annex 4
Page 8 of 8
not question the cost effectiveness of girls' education, rather the approach used in the community
education component aimed at increasing in girls' enrollment in grades 1 to 6. The community education
component was analyzed and found to be more cost effective than the Government's current system for
addressing the problem of low girls' enrollment. In summary, the results show that:
*  The incremental recurrent costs for the program aimed at improving quality and providing incentives
for girls to go to school are approximately US$2 per child more than those of the present
Government system. These costs are justified by:
> the potential increase in girls' enrollment rate. Past experience from a similar UNICEF model
has shown that girls' enrollment rates in the UNICEF-supported schools in Hodeidah were at
least 50 percent higher than for the governorate as a whole; and
> the fact that money can be saved by ensuring appropriate pupil-teacher ratios of between 30 and
40 to 1. Once again the UNICEF model, upon which the project interventions are based, has
achieved better results than the Government schools. Pupil-teacher ratios in the UNICEF-
supported girls' schools in two districts in Hodeidah were 32 and 27 to 1, as opposed to 26 and
24 to 1 in the Government girls' schools in the corresponding districts.
-  Construction costs can be contained, and classrooms built cheaper than regular MOE classrooms by:
)o analyzing the construction methods presently used by the MOE. Substantial cost saving will
arise, for example, by using cement blocks or hammer-dressed stone instead of fair-faced stone,
paying attention to spans, and planning the classroom size to meet the community needs instead
of prescribing a country-wide standard;
> employing small, local contracting firms which have lower overheads and travel expenses than
the larger firms found in the governorate capitals;
> streamlining the payment process so that bid prices are not unnecessarily inflated as a result of
payment delays; and
> using community participation, which has proven to decrease construction costs from between 5
and 40 percent, depending on the ability of the community to contribute or offer in kind.
*  The participation of communities in school maintenance would address the shortcomings of the
Government system. Increased ownership would reduce the incidence of vandalism and the cost of
repairs, subsequently reducing costs to the government (a full report on the analysis will be available
in the project file).
Water Supply and Sanitation
22.   The lack of water supply and sanitation is the primary cause of disease transmission via feces. As
a result, diarrhea and intestinal worm infections are common in Yemen. The project will not support
large schemes, but rather low-cost community water and sanitation schemes that can be sustained by the
communities. For example, rain water collectors and hand pumps will be established where possible,
and more expensive motorized schemes may be necessary in areas where the only reliable source of
water is in the ground. Piped water to houses will only be provided if the household pays for pipes from
the water tank to the house, a water meter for the house, and their monthly consumption. Community
management, responsible for establishing cost-sharing schemes to cover maintenance and daily
supervision of the water and sanitation schemes, will minimize the cost to the government for these
schemes. UNICEF's ABP evaluation report confirms the cost effectiveness of these schemes and
emphasizes the sustainability that has resulted from successful cost-sharing schemes.



Annex 5
Page I of 1
Republic of Yemen
Child Development Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending June 30
(US$ million, 2000/2001 Base Year)
Implementation Period                Operational Period
00/01   01/02   02/03   03/04   04/05   Total  05/06   06/07   07/08
Project Costs
Investment Costs       8.95   11.55    9.99    6.16    3.83   40.48
Recurrent Costs        0.44    0.82    1.14    1.21    1.21    4.82    1.27    1.34    1.41
Total           9.38   12.37   11.13    7.36    5.05   45.30    1.27    1.34    1.41
Financing Sources
(Amounts)
IDA                    5.60    7.91    7.11    4.92    3.32   28.86
UNICEF                 3.27    3.60    3.08    1.58    0.88   12.41
Government             0.39    0.60    0.56    0.45    0.40    2.40    0.82    0.87    0.92
Communities            0.13    0.26    0.38    0.42    0.44    1.63    0.46    0.47    0.48
Total           9.38   12.37   11.13    7.36    5.05   45.30    1.27    1.34    1.41
Financing Sources
(% of Total Project Costs)
IDA                    60%    64%    64%    67%    66%    64%
UNICEF                 35%    29%    28%    21%        18%    27%
Government              4%      5%      5%      6%      8%      5%    64%    65%    66%
Communities              1%     2%      3%      6%      9%      4%    36%    35%    34%
Total           100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding



Annex 6
Page 1 of 10
Republic of Yemen
Child Development Project
Procurement Arrangements
A. Procurement Management
1.    Procurement would be managed by both the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), that would be
established under the HCMC, and UNICEF. The Government would contract UNICEF directly to
provide project assistance and signing of a Cooperation Agreement for Project Assistance (CAPA) is
a condition of Board presentation.
2.    Capacity to Manage Procurement. A PCU would be created under the HCMC comprising
five core staff: Director (also Secretary General of the HCMC), Financial Officer, Accountant,
Procurement Officer, and Administrative Assistant. The PCU would work very closely with
UNICEF and would plan and schedule all project activities jointly to ensure complete coordination of
all project activities, especially as they relate to budgeting and forecasting of project expenditures.
UNICEF already has a computerized program management system (PROMS) which would be used
for the entire project. The PCU staff will receive training in planning and scheduling of project
activities (using Microsoft Project), in budgeting and accounting systems and procedures, in
procurement, and office management. Training is being planned in the next few months and will be
financed under the PHRD grant. Further training in procurement and disbursement for key UNICEF
and PCU staff is being planned prior to effectiveness to ensure that the staff is familiar with all
project documents, the Credit Agreement and the project working papers. Procurement of civil works
will be assisted by architectural and engineering firms that would be contracted to design, prepare
bidding documents, assist in contracting and supervising the works.
3.    UNICEF would support the management of this project within its existing Sana'a and area-
based field offices. The Operations Officer, Supplies Officer, Assistant Finance Officer,
Administrative Assistant, and Computer/IT Specialist will be directly responsible for procurement.
UNICEF has considerable experience through its own operations in Yemen and in other counties in
the region in the procurement of works, in area-based small projects with community participation,
and for goods such as medical equipment, school kits and supplies. UNICEF's experience in dealing
with communities would be particularly valuable where community participation is expected
(community schools and water and sanitation systems) where the communities would be solely
responsible for the repair and maintenance of the facilities and thus guaranteeing their smooth
operation and sustainability. UNICEF would provide overall planning and coordination assistance
and guidance to the PCU that would be responsible for the remaining procurement mentioned above.
4.    IDA-Financed HCMC-PCU Managed Procurement. The PCU would manage procurement
of the IDA-financed goods that are not managed under the CAPA or financed by UNICEF. These
goods are mainly medical supplies and equipment, and office equipment and computers, estimated at
about US$6.0 million. UNICEF is committing itself to assist the PCU in every respect, thereby
minimizing the risk of failure due to its lack of experience. The PCU would use IDA procurement
procedures and guidelines for these activities.
5.    IDA-Financed UNICEF Managed Procurement. Under a Cooperation Agreement for Project
Assistance (CAPA) with the Government, UNICEF would be responsible for the procurement of all
civil works (US$5.12 million), consulting services (US$3.47 million), training programs (US$1.66
million), vaccines & accessories (US$5.51 million), and Oral Re-hydration Salts (US$3.46 million).
UNICEF would also manage and disburse operational support funds (US$1.65 million ) needed by
the various project components to ensure smooth operation. UNICEF will charge a fee of 3% of the



Annex 6
Page 2 of 10
cost of the works, goods and services managed, and would also be reimbursed for direct costs against
project management staff salaries (US$0.71 million), goods (computers, office equipment and
vehicles) for project management (US$0.29 million), and operational budget (US$0.13 million)
needed .to ensure effective management of the project. The net payment to UNICEF for services
provided under the CAPA is estimated at US$1.77 million. The CAPA describes the procurement
procedures to be followed for the above IDA-financed UNICEF-managed activities, which are
acceptable to IDA.
6.    UNICEF-Financed and Managed Activities. UNICEF would finance and manage the
following categories/ components: Civil Works for the Community Schools and the ECD pilot
(US$3.51 million); Goods for the DHS, Water & Sanitation Schemes. Nutrition Programs,
Community Schools, and the ECD pilot; and Training for Safe Motherhood, Women Teacher
Training, and Community Schools (US$2.46 million). Considerable human and financial resources
would be provided free of charge to the project. UNICEF would use its own procurement procedures
for all UNICEF-financed activities.
B. Procurement Methods (Tables Al and A2)
7.    Project elements, their estimated costs, and the procurement arrangements and schedule for
the components to be financed by the Bank are summarized in Table Al and Table A2. Data in Table
A2 will serve as basis for Project Management Reports (PMR) for disbursement under LACI
procedures.
8.    Civil Works.  IDA-financed works estimated at US$5.12 million would include:
rehabilitation of health facilities, water and sanitation schemes, and construction and rehabilitation of
a textbook warehouses in the project area. As these works would be geographically dispersed in local
communities and ranging from US$10,000 to US$190,000, they would not be of interest to foreign or
even large national contractors. Therefore, they would be carried out undcer National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) or Simplified Procedures. Contracts with an estimated value of US$150,000 and
above would be awarded in accordance with NCB. All other smaller contracts would be procured
through National Shopping (NS) or Simplified Procedures by obtaining competitive quotations from
at least three local contractors. These procedures are described in the CAPA and are acceptable to
IDA.
9.    Goods. Goods would include: vaccines and accessories, oral re-hydration solutions (ORS),
medical supplies, medical equipment, other equipment, computers, vehicles. and fumiture. They
would be procured under the following procedures:
(a)   International Competitive Bidding (ICB) (US$5.66 million). Contracts estimated at
US$150,000 or more would be awarded according to ICB procedures. Contracts
falling under this category are mainly for medical supplies. Except for the first year,
they would be bulked to form annual bidding packages of about US$1.3 million.
(b)   International and National Shopping (IS/NS) (US$0.64 million). Contracts estimated
to cost less than US$150,000 would be awarded according to IS procedures by
obtaining competitive price quotations from at least three suppliers in two different
countries, not to exceed an aggregate amount of about US$0.26 million. Contracts
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 would follow NS procedures, not to exceed an
aggregate amount of about US$0.37 million.
(c)    Direct Contracting (DC) (US$8.97 million). Vaccines estimated at US$5.51 million
and ORS at US$3.46 million would be procured directly from the UNICEF



Annex 6
Page 3 of 10
warehouse in Copenhagen in January and June each year. Distribution would be
managed by UNICEF in coordination with the District and Governorate MOPH
authorities. World-wide experience has proven UNICEF's comparative advantage in
providing these type of goods efficiently and at lower cost, while guaranteeing timely
delivery and quality which is critical for vaccines. This procurement would be under
the CAPA between the Government of Yemen and UNICEF.
10.   Consultant Services (US$3.47 million). Services to be contracted include short-termn and
long-term international and national technical specialists, including architects/engineers, trainers, and
financial auditing specialists. Services for the design and supervision of civil works (US$0.63
million) would be divided into three packages, one per sector (education, health, water) and because
of their modest scope would be procured locally under quality and cost based selections procedures
described in the CAPA, which are acceptable to IDA. Technical services from international
(US$1.74 million) and national specialists (US$1.10 million) would be procured also in accordance
with quality based selection procedures described in the CAPA.
11.   Training Activities (US$1.66 million). Training Workshops have been estimated on the basis
of unit costs per trainee which include: trainer fees, handouts training materials, supplies, travel and
daily subsistence allowances per trainee. Trainers would be recruited following quality based
selection procedures as described in the CAPA.
C. Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
12.   The first contracts for works, goods and services, irrespective of contract value, would be
subject to prior review by IDA. In addition, the following contracts would be subject to prior review:
- works contracts exceeding US$150,000 (NCB);
* goods contracts exceeding US$150,000 (ICB);
- consulting services contracts with firns exceeding US$100,000;
consulting services contracts with individuals exceeding US$50,000; and
o training activities exceeding US$100,000.
D. Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table C)
13.   The IDA Credit would be disbursed against the expenditure categories as shown in Table C.
Financial management and procedures are described in Annex 6 (a).



Annex 6
Page 4 of 10
Table A 1: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category            ICB       NCB      IS/NS      DC      Other      NIF      Total
1. Works
Rehabilitation                             0.51      0.95                         1.72     3.18
(0.46)    (0.85)                      [1.55]    (1.32)
New Construction                           0.19      3.47                         1.79     5.45
(0.17)    (3.12)                      [1.61]    (3.29)
2. Goods
Vaccines                                                      5.51                         5.51
(5.51)                       (5.51)
Oral Re-hydration Solutions                                   3.46                         3.46
(3.46)                       (3.46)
Medical Supplies                  5.66                                            1.23     6.89
(5.66)                                          [1.23]    (6.89)
Medical Equipment                                    0.16                         1.25      1.41
(0.16)                       [1.25]    (1.41)
Other Equipment                                      0.09                         3.14     3.23
(0.09)                       [3.14]    (0.09)
Computers                                            0.09                         0.10     0.19
(0.09)                       [0.10]    (0.09)
Vehicles                                             0.26                                  0.26
(0.26)                                (0.26)
Furniture                                            0.03                         1.06      1.10
(0.03)                       [1.06]    (0.03)
3. Consultant Services
International Specialists                                               1.74                1.74
(1.74)             (1.74)
Local Specialists                                                       1.10                1.10
(1.10)            (1.10)
ArchlEngineering Consultants                                            0.63               0.63
(0.63)             (0.63)
4. Training
Workshops                                                               1.66      2.33     3.99
(1.66)    [2.33]    (1.66)
Study Visits                                                                      1.13     0.13
[0.13]
5. Project Management
UNICEF 3% Fee                                                                              0.65
(0.65)
Salaries and Operation                                                                      1.56
(1.56)
6. Recurrent Costs
Operational Support /a                                                  0.48               0.48
(0.34)            (0.34)
Textbook Distribution /b                                                0.23               0.23
(0.16)             (0.16)
Monitoring & Supervision /c                                             1.65                1.65
(1.16)             (1.16)
Maintenance & Repair /d                                                 2.46
Total                                  5.66      0.70     5.06      8.97     12.15     12.76     45.30
(5.66)    (0.63)    (4.61)    (8.97)    (8.98)   112.40]   (28.86)
Totals may not add up due to rounding. NIF = Non IDA-financed; Other = Consulting Services and Training.
Figures in (parenthesis) are the amounts to be financed by IDA; Figures in [parenthesis] are the amounts to be financed by
UNICEF.
a/  Supplies, utilities, transportation
b/ To distribute textbooks from governorate warehouses to district offices to schools
c/  Travel and subsistence aliowances
d/  Maintenance & repair for buildings, equipment & furniture would be financed by the Govemment and the
Communities.



Annex 6
Page 5 of 10
Table A 2: Procurement Plan
Works                    CW                              5,120
Rehabilitation                                        1,462
7 HCs (00)                          7               200      NS             Post               Sep. 00    Oct. 00     Nov. 00      May 01
18 HUs (00)                        18               151      NS             Post               Sep. 00    Oct. 00     Nov. 00      May 01
7 HCs (01)                          7               204      NS             Post               Mar. 01    Apr. 01     May 01       Nov. 01
3 RFs (01)                          3               514    NCB       Prior           Yes       Mar. 01    Apr. 01     May 01       Nov. 01
13 HUs (01)                        13               111      NS             Post               Mar. 01    Apr. 01     May 01       Nov. 01
1 WH (01)                           1               114      NS             Post               Mar. 01    Apr. 01     May 01      Nov. 01
11 HUs (02)                        11                96      NS             Post               Mar. 02    Apr. 02     May 02       Nov. 02
8 HUs (03)                          8                72      NS             Post               Mar. 03    Apr. 03     May 03       Nov. 03
New Construction                      35              3,658
13 W&SSs (00)                      13              1,254     NS             Post               Sep. 00    Oct. 00     Nov. 00      May 01
9 W&SSs (01)                        9               891      NS             Post               Mar. 01    Apr. 01     May 01       Nov. 01
1 WH (01)                           1               189    NCB       Prior           Yes       Mar. 01    Apr. 01     May 01       Nov. 01
4 WIs (01)                          4               505      NS             Post               Mar. 01    Apr. 01     May 01       Nov. 01
8 W&SSs (02)                        8               819      NS             Post               Mar. 02    Apr. 02     May 02       Nov. 02
Goods                                     33            17,185              Prior           No
>US$0.20
Vaccines & Acce.      G                8              5,509     DC           NA                     NA         NA
Pkg I                               1               552                                                               Jul. 00      Sep. 00
Pkg 2                               1               552                                                               Jan. 01      Mar. 01
Pkg 3                               1               651                                                               Jun. 01      Aug. 01
Pkg 4                               1               651                                                               Jan. 02      Mar. 02
Pkg 5                               1               782                                                               Jun. 02      Aug. 02
Pkg 6                               1               782                                                               Jan. 03      Mar. 03
Pkg 7                               1               800                                                               Jun. 03      Aug. 03
Pkg 8                               1               800                                                               Jan. 04      Mar. 04
ORS                   G                5              3,460     DC           NA                     NA         NA
Pkg I                               1                117                                                              Jul. 00      Sep. 00
Pkg 2                               1               117                                                               Jan. 01      Mar. 01
CW for civil works; G for goods; CF for consultant firms; CI for individuals; TR for training.
2   The number of packages are indicated approximately. Further refinements are being made by the PIU.
ICB, NCB, IS, NS, DC, Q (for minor civil works), QCBS, QBS, FB, LCS; SS (for sole-sourcing of firms or individuals), Other (for recurrent costs on the basis of
administrative procedures based on acceptable schedule and budget).
For all competitive bidding procedures for civil works.



Annex 6
Page 6 of 10
Pkg 3              ,                             239                                                           Jun. 01     Aug. 01
Pkg 4                             I              239                                                            Jan. 02    Mar. 02
Pkg 5                             I              365                                                           Jun. 02     Aug. 02
Pkg 6                             1              365                                                            Jan. 03    Mar. 03
Pkg 7                             1              499                                                            Jun. 03    Aug. 03
Pkg 8                             1              499                                                            Jan. 04    Mar. 04
Pkg 9                             1              511                                                           Jun. 04     Aug. 04
Pkg1                              I                    __511                                                    Jan. 05     Mar. 05
Medical Supplies     G               55,667                          Prior
Pkg I (00)                        1              274    ICB                               Sep. 00    Oct. 00    Nov. 00     Apr. 01
Pkg 2 (01)                        1             1,286    ICB                              Dec. 00    Feb. 01    Mar. 01    Aug. 01
Pkg 3 (02)                        1             1,459    ICB                              Dec. 01    Feb. 02    Mar. 02    Aug. 02
Pkg 4 (03)                        1             1,314    ICB                              Dec. 02    Feb. 03    Mar. 03    Aug. 03
Pkg 5 (04)                        1             1,334    ICB                              Dec. 03    Feb. 04    Mar. 04    Aug. 04
Medical Equip.       G               5               155                   Post
Pkg 1 (00)                        1               22      LS                              Sep. 00    Oct. 00    Nov. 00     Apr. 01
Pkg 2 (01)                        1               116     IS                              Dec. 00    Feb. 01    Mar. 01     Aug. 01
Pkg 3 (02)                        1                17     LS                              Dec. 01    Feb. 02    Mar. 02    Aug. 02
Other Equipment      G               3               88                    Post
Pkg I (00)                        1                9      LS                              Sep. 00    Oct. 00    Nov. 00     Apr. 01
Pkg 2 (01)                        1               50      LS                              Dec. 00    Feb. 01    Mar. 01     Aug. 01
Pkg 3 (02)                        1               29      LS                              Dec. 01    Feb. 02    Mar. 02     Aug. 02
Computers            G               3               91                    Post
Pkg I (00)                        1               40      LS                              Sep. 00    Oct. 00    Nov. 00     Apr. 01
Pkg 2 (01)                        1               46      LS                              Dec. 00    Feb. 01    Mar. 01     Aug. 01
Pkg 3 (02)                        1                 5     LS                              Dec. 01    Feb. 02    Mar. 02    Aug. 02
Vehicles             G               3              264                    Post
Pkg I (00)                        1               181     IS                              Sep. 00    Oct. 00    Nov. 00     Apr. 01
Pkg 2 (01)                        1               41      NS                              Dec. 00    Feb. 01    Mar. 01     Aug. 01
Pkg 3 (02)                        1               42      NS                              Dec. 01    Feb. 02    Mar. 02    Aug. 02
Furniture            G               3               34                    Post
Pkg I (00)                        1                19     LS                              Sep. 00    Oct. 00    Nov. 00     Apr. 01
Pkg 2 (01)                        1                9      LS                              Dec. 00    Feb. 01    Mar. 01     Aug. 01
Pkg 3 (02)                        1                6      LS                              Dec. 01    Feb. 02    Mar. 02     Aug. 02
Consultant Services                    46             5,245
Firms/Arch/Eng.     CF               5               630   QCBS
Individuals/Spec.    CI             42             2,840    QBS
UNICEF Support       CI              1             1,775     SS
Training               TR                             1,662
Workshops                                          1,662    QBS



Annex 6
Page 7 of 10
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Country Procurement Assessment Report (updating under preparation)
2. General Procurement Notice in Development Business (April 2000)
3.       Expenditure Category &         Threshold per       Prior       Total per
Procurement Method           contract (US$)     Review        category
(a) Works                                            First Contract
>150,000
1. Construction/Rehabilitation
NCB                        >50,000                        700,000
Simplified Procedures      <50,000                      4,420,000
Subtotal (a)                                  5,120,000
(b) Goods                                            First Contract
>150,000
1. Vaccines & Accessories
Direct (UNICEF)             N/A                         5,510,000
2. Oral Re-Hydration Solutions     N/A                         3,460,000
Direct (UJNICEF)
3. Medical Supplies
ICB                       >150,000                      5,660,000
4. Medical Equipment
NS                         <50,000                        160,000
5. Other Equipment
NS                         <50,000                         90,000
6. Computers
NS                         <50,000                         90,000
7. Vehicles
IS                    50,000<x<150,000                    264,000
8. Furniture
NS                         <50,000                         34,000
Subtotal (b)                                 15,268,000
(c) Consultant Services                              First Contract
1. Firms (Arch/Engineering)                    >100,000        630,000
2. Individual Specialists                       >50,000       2,840,000
Subtotal (c)                                  3,470,000
(d) Training
1. Training Workshops                          >100,000       1,662,000
Subtotal (d)                                  1,662,000
(e) Project Management (Staff Only)                  First Contract
1. UNICEF Consultants/Staff                       N/A          712,000
3. PCU Consultants                              >50,000        434,000
Subtotal (e)                                  1,146,000



Annex 6
Page 8 of 10
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category     Amount in US$           Financing Percentage
1. Works                          4,220,000     90%
2. Goods                          13,880,000    100% foreign expenditures,
100% local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
and 85% of other items procured locally
3. Consultants' services          3,540,000    100%
4. Training                        1,770,000    100%
5. Project Management              1,230,000    100%
including UNICEF fee
6. Operational support, textbook   1,770,000    100%
distribution and monitoring &
evaluation
7. Unallocated                    2,450,000
Total     28,860,000



Republic of Yemen
Child Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)
Heslth Activity                                              Education Activity
Community   District                                           Water &                              Women                        Pilot         Project
Readiness   Health    lMCl   Immunization          Safe       Sanitation    Nutrition  Community  Teacher    Textbook            ECD        Management
Program    Systems  Program       Program      Motherhood   Schemes   -Activity    Schools   Training    Distribution    A_!ctivity    (       .PCUIUNIC~EF)   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. Rehabilitation                      -      -.::...;                                                                                                                --                    3.19
2. New Construction                     -                                                                         -S.0o6:fi7.-                                       9                       5.45
Subtotal                                          1.35         -                           -         2.96            -        3.46          -0.81                     0.06               -      8.64
B. Goods
1. Vaccines & Accessories                                   -                                         ----                                                                                   5.51
2. Oral Rehydration Solutions                                               ----                                                                         ---                                 3.46
3. Medical Supplies                                      5.63               -         0.03            -.....1                                            ---                                 6.89
4. Medical Equipment                           1;        0.09               -         0 07                                                                                                    1,41993--   
5. Other Equipment                   '         00:           -                        0.07   :2::23-                       0.S-                            :Y.:6I.  :1:4             #       3.23
7. Vehiclers                                   ______                                                                                 ___                                                   _ 9
6. Computers                                                                                                                                                                                  0  10    -26    00
8.  Furniture                             __ _  _ _                                                                                                                                           1    1--.0-_ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ _
Subtotal                               0.23       1.42      9.18           5.51         0.17         2 33         1.26        1.63          -0.04                     0.14            0.13     22.05
C. Consultant Services
1. International Specialists                                                                                                                         ME.I                              - 11.74
2 Loc-al Specialists-_--                                                                                                                                                                      10
3. Architects/Engineers       I_____                 _is__ ________-                                                                                                                          062
Subtotal                               1.02       0.55      0~24           0 15         0 06         0,70        0.14         0.27       0.14           0.09           0.11              -      3.47
D. Training
1.Workshops                                                              SOOt                      I'          '                       0               S0                                    3~99
2. Study Visits                         -                                                                               .5.---                                                               0 13
Subtotal                               0.09       0.89      0 26           0.05         0.31         0.04        0.01         0.23       2.02           0.04           0.15           0.01      4.12
E. Project Management
1. UNICEF Fee                           -          -        -               -            -                  -                  -          -              -             -           0,65      0.65
2. Management Operation                 -          -                        ---                                                           ---1 56
Subtotal                                  -                                                                 __----2.21                                                                          2.21
Total Investment Costs                   1 34       4.20      9.70           5.72         0 54          6.04        1.41        5.59       2.16           0.98           0.45           2.35     40 48
It. Recurrent Costs
A. Operational Support /a                 -          -      0.20           0 19             -            -                       -       0 03              -          0.06               -      0.48
B. Textbook Distribution /b--- -                                                           -                                                -           0.23                     -              0.23
C. Monitoring & Supervision /c                                 -------                                                                                                                          1.65
D. Maintenance & Repair
1. Building Maintenance                        0.10         ---                                    0 23           -        0.25          --                         0.00               -     0.58
2. Equipment Maintenance            0.08       0.50          -                        0.06         0.73        0 31            -          -0.02                     0.05               -      1.73
3. Furniture Maintenance-                          - -         -                                      -           -        0.14                          -      -              -             0.14
Subtotal                               0.08       0.59         --                       0 06         0.95        0.31         0 39          -002                      0.05 ______               2.46
Total Recurrent Costs                    0.08       1 54      0.20           0.19         0.06          0.96        0.31        1.09       0.03           0.25           0.11              -      4.82
Total PROJECT COSTS                       1.42      5.75      9.90            5.91         0.60         7.00        1.72        6 68       2.19            1.22          0.56            2.35    45 30
Taxes                                  0.00       0 08         -              -         0.00         0.16         0.01        0.15          -           0 04          0 00               -      0 45
Foreign Exchange                       0 74       3.24      9.03           5.36         0.34         4 40         1.44        3.05       0.74           0.54          0.33            1.00     30.20
_________________________________          ~~UNICEF financed components                                    ID-ianced UNICEF mana ed Cornponents under the CAPA
\a Supplies, utilities, transportation                                               .:..;;-::.<  UNICEF Grant Financing                -,- -.(
\1b To distribute textbooks from Governorate Warehouses   I12Slio ..                             US$12.41 million        
and District Offices to Schools                                                                                          Relating to UNICEF
\c Subsistance and Travel allowances                                                                                        project management-
(excluding the PCU)C  C
Annex 6 Page gr XLS



Republic of Yemen                                       Annex 6
Child Development Project                              Page 10 of 10
Cooperation Acreement for Project Assistance (CAPA)
IA  UNICEF
IDA-financed Goods to be procured and managed by UNICEF             Financing   Fee at 3%
Vaccines & Accessories                                               5.51      0.165
Oral Rehydration Solutions                                           3.46      0.104
Total        8.97      0.269
IDA-financed Consultant Services to be procured and managed by UNICEF
in accordance with the Guidelines (3.19)
International Specialists (excluding UNICEF officers/consultants) /a  1.74     0.052
Local Specialists (excluding UNICEF consultants) /a                   1.10     0.033
Architects/Engineers (Des/Spn) /b                                    0.63      0.019
Total        3.47      0.104
IDA-financed Trainina Activities to be managed by UNICEF in accordance
with the Guidelines (3.19)
Workshops /c                                                          1.66     0.050
IDA-financed Operational Support to be managed by UNICEF /d               1.65     0.050
IDA-financed Civil Works to be managed by UNICEF /e                       4.61     0.138
DJiin 0 t P  r Jcr r~g'nn CotReFnbuffi to UNICE!EF              FInauI    l| et3%
Grand Total       21.49      0.645
Total     UNICEF
Cost      Share
UNICEF Financed Categories (Components)
Civil Works (Community Schools and ECD)                          3.51      3.159
Goods (DHS, Water & Sanitation Schemes, Nutrition Programs,
Community Schools, and ECD)                                      6.78      6.782
Training: Workops (Safe Motherhood and Women Teacher Training);
and Study Visits (Community Schools)                             2.46      2.463
Total       12.76     12.404
Notes:
a! Individual consultants
b/ Local architectural & engineering firms
c/ Training workshops conducted at the local level (Governorate or District)
d/ Relating to monitoring and supervision activities only (DHS and Community Schools)
e/ Amount represents the 90% IDA share only
f/ Including equipment for Community Readiness Component (Table 2)



Annex 6 (a)
Page 1 of 4
Republic of Yemen
Child Development Project
Project Financial Management Section
A. The Ormanization Structure of the Project
1.    As previously noted, the project will be implemented under the overall supervision of the
Higher Council for Motherhood and Childhood (HCMC), represented by the Steering Committee
(SC), and will be administered at the following three levels (as depicted in the following
organizational chart):
* A Project Coordination Unit (PCU), to be created.
* The UNICEF Sana'a Office and through its seven Area Based Units (ABUs).
Project Organizational Chart
Higher Council for Motherhood & Childhood
Steering Committee
UNICEF- Sana'a    Coordination Unit
ArmaBased Uniti    ABU2                                      ABU 6      ABU 7
(ABU)]IIII 
2.    The project total costs are estimated at US$45.3 million to be funded by an IDA credit of
US$28.86 million, a UNICEF grant of US$12.4 million, a Government counterpart funding of
US$2.4 million, and a community participation of US$1.63 million. Accounting records will be kept
at both levels and reporting will be made to the SC on a quarterly basis and based on LACI reporting
requirements. The SC in turn will submit the overall project's report on a quarterly basis to IDA.
B The Financial Management Function
Staffing
3.    At the UNICEF-Office. An Operations Officer has been appointed as of November 1998.
This person heads the finance and human resource division. The division will be strengthened by
the recruitment of a assistant financial officer, a project administrator, and a computer
assistant. The three positions will report directly to the Operations Officer and will work full time on
the Child Development Project (CDP) accounting and financial reporting. The financial officer will
have the required accounting and financial management qualifications and relevant experience along
with computer skills.



Annex 6 (a)
Page 2 of 4
4.    At the Project Coordination Unit Level. The finance function at the PCU level will be
covered by two positions: a finance officer and an accountant. These positions will be filled with
qualified persons with minimum qualifications of a bachelor degree or equivalent in accounting or
business administration and relevant prior experience. They will be in charge of keeping appropriate
accounting records, preparing the quarterly reports and consolidating total project reports.
Qualifications and terms of reference have been prepared and agreed upon with the Yemeni
Government.
Compliance with OP 10.02
5.    UNICEF. The current general framework of the UNICEF's Sana'a office financial system, as
described by their Acting Senior Operations Officer, meets the Bank's financial systems requirement
as spelled out in the OP 10.02, exceptfor the annual audit. It provides an adequate internal control
with policies, regulations, and procedures in place that are designed to meet projects objectives,
safeguard assets, prevent fraud and error, and provide accurate and complete accounting records.
6.    In accordance with these policies and regulations, UNICEF will keep accurate and systematic
records for the project component it is managing and subject to the Cooperation Agreement for
Project Assistance (CAPA) to be signed between the GOY and UNICEF. UNICEF will keep separate
ledger account through which all UNICEF's receipts and disbursements for the purpose of the project
assistance will be channeled.
7.    Once the planned staffing is in place and the necessary training conducted, the financial
management system structure and control of the UNICEF office will have the potential to provide
reliable financial information to all the stakeholders.
8.    The Project Coordination Unit. The PCU system and procedures will be designed during the
second half of 1999 prior to the credit effectiveness date. The PCU's financial, administrative, and
procurement systems and procedures will be designed and installed prior to credit effectiveness. A
consulting firm will be appointed to set-up the financial management system at the PCU. Terms of
reference have been prepared. The financial management system will be compliant with OP 10.02
and will generate the LACI reporting requirements. Staff will be hired and trained on the use of the
system being prepared, prior to the effectiveness of the credit. Please refer to action plan for details
and timing of implementation.
Training
9.    Both finance officers to be recruited at UNICEF and at the PCU as well as the accountant
will receive a training on the LACI reporting and disbursement requirements prior to the
effectiveness of the credit and once the reporting system is in place in both the UNICEF and PCU
offices. It will also help test the new system once it is in place and will allow project management to
make any necessary changes and/or give additional training sessions in order to make the system
completely operational prior to the start of the project. A training on Bank financial and procurement
management and disbursement and reporting requirements will be organized during project launch.
C. Reporting
10.   The project will be LACI compliant. LACI requirements have been discussed and agreed
upon with the UNICEF counterparts. UNICEF is currently renewing its reporting system. The new
system will be able to provide close to real time information. It is expected to be compatible with the



Annex 6 (a)
Page 3 of 4
LACI reporting requirements, and will generate updated project's financial, procurement, and
physical output indicators. UNICEF has undertaken a review of its current management system and
is undertaking actions to increase management efficiency.
UNICEF will report to the SC:
* within one month of the end of each quarter of each calendar year with a quarterly project
management report for the components of the project under its direct management;
* within four months of the close of each calendar year with annual financial statements of account
for the components of the project under its direct management (with a copy to IDA);
* annually with a certificate from the Director of the Office of Internal Audit of UNICEF in the
form described in the Cooperation Agreement (CAPA), based on an external independent audit of
the financial statements of account of the components of the project under its direct management.
11.   As stated earlier, the PCU's system will also be LACI compliant, and reports will be
submitted on a quarterly basis to IDA and will be the basis for disbursements. UNICEF and the PCU
will be reporting quarterly to the SC, which, in turn will report the consolidated project report to IDA
on a quarterly basis, in addition to the annual project's financial statements.
D. SpecialAccount & Flow of Funds
12.   A special account will be opened and operated by the Yemeni Council for Motherhood and
Childhood, at the Central Bank of Yemen. Once the Cooperation Agreement between the
Government of Yemen and UNICEF is signed, the Yemeni Government will submit to IDA a blanket
withdrawal application in favor of UNICEF for the first year's total estimated costs of the activities,
and every year thereafter for the expenditures of the respective year. Upon approval of the
application, IDA will commit the annual authorized amount from the credit for payment to UNICEF
and will issue a confirmation letter to that effect. Original advances to the special account and to the
UNICEF Bank account will be based on the forecasted cash-flow needs for the first semester, and
draw-downs thereafter will be based on LACI quarterly reporting. UNICEF will submit to the SC its
cash-flow forecasts for the first six months of the first year of disbursement. The SC will consolidate
the PCU cash-flow forecasts for the first six months of the first year of disbursement with that of
UNICEF and will request payments of such advances to UNICEF account directly and to the special
account for their respective cash needs. Subsequent advances will be made to both the special
account and UNICEF bank account based on quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR)
submitted to IDA by the SC (which should clearly state the amount to be paid to UNICEF bank
account and the Special Account).
13.   UNICEF will not open a separate bank account for the IDA funds to be received. Instead, a
separate USD ledger account will be maintained.
E. AuditArrangements
14.   Audit of UNICEF implemented project component. UNICEF's annual financial statements,
for the component of the project under their management, are required to be audited annually by an
independent auditor appointed by UNICEF. The auditors should express an opinion on whether the
financial statements show a true and fair view of the funds received and expended by UNICEF. The
financial statements referred to in section 3 (Reporting), above, will be accompanied by a certificate
from the Director of the Office of Internal Audit of UNICEF. UNICEF will engage annually an
outside independent accounting firm to assist in carrying out the field audit on which this certificate
will in part be based. This certificate along with the financial statements will be used by the project's



Annex 6 (a)
Page 4 of 4
local auditors to issue the project's audited financial statements. To allow the project's auditors to
submit their audit report no later than six months following the closure of each fiscal year, UNICEF
audit certificate and financial statements will be submitted to the SC within four months of the end of
each calendar year.
15.   At the PCU level. External auditor of the project will be appointed prior to effectiveness of
the credit. The auditor will prepare a project's audit report comprising both components of the
project: the one managed by the PCU and that managed by UNICEF. The auditors will perform the
audit of the accounts maintained by the PCU and will rely on UNICEF's audit certificate and annual
financial statements for the components of the project managed by UNICEF. The audit will be
conducted in accordance with the Bank's financial policies and as per IAS. The auditors TORs and
engagement letter will be submitted to the Bank for review as specified in the action plan.
F. Project Readinessfor Implementation and Risk Assessment
16.   The establishment of the PCU is still at its very early stages. Currently, the action plan to
build capacity to be able to handle disbursement and implementation is being implemented. The
action plan and schedule (see below) if implemented properly will result in proper financial
management arrangements capable of providing accurate and timely information for Bank's reporting
requirements and project management purposes. The action plan will be monitored closely to ensure
that qualified staff are hired on time and will receive proper training and that satisfactory systems are
set up and running properly by effectiveness. The Bank will undertake an assessment of the financial
management arrangements upon full implementation of the action plan to decide on possible
additional actions needed to ensure an adequate financial management system in place. UNICEF, on
the other hand, needs to hire the staff required for the project, train them as per the action plan, and
issue the PMR for the component of the project components they are managing.
G. Action Plans for the Implementation of the Financial ManagementArrangements
17.   To allow the project to meet Bank financial management requirements prior to credit
effectiveness and prepare for PMR disbursement, two action plans for the implementation of the
financial management arrangements by both UNICEF and the Project Coordination Unit, have been
prepared, discussed and agreed upon between IDA and the concerned counterparts during appraisal
(see action plan in Annex 6(b)).



Annex 6 (b)
Page l of3
Republic of Yemen
Child Development Project
LACI Certification
Report on the Assessment of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements
INADEQUATE FINANCIAL AND PROCUREMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Part I- Financial Management System:
I have reviewed the financial management system relating to the Child Development Project in Yemen.
The objective of the review was to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial
management system as required by the IDA under OP/BP 10.02.
My review, which included visits to the project implementing agency, was based on the Bank's guidelines
for "Review of Financial Management System", and focused on the assessment of the project's
accounting system, intemal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, selection of an
auditor as well as the format and contents of the Project Management Report (PMR) to be submitted by
the borrower in support of Withdrawal Applications.
In my opinion, the project does not satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
I have detailed in the attachment two action plans discussed and agreed with the borrower to remedy the
situation.
Signed by:
/ ~  Financial Management
Specialist-OPR           ,         I 9&ZO
Fafw Chaouva1i;94SHD       D#Ate://
Part II- Procurement/Contract Management System:
I have reviewed the procurement/contract management system relating to this project. The objective of
the review was to determine whether the procurement/contract management system adopted for the
project conforms to the Bank's guidelines for procurement in investment projects.
My view was based on the "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Procurement; Setting of
Prior Review Thresholds, and Procurement Supervision Plan" guidelines issued by the Bank.
The Procurement Assessment was generally positive with satisfactory ratings for most items assessed.
However, the project does not satisfy the Bank's minimum procurement management requirements with
respect to the format and content of Section 3 (Procurement Monitoring) of the Project Management
Report (PMR). UNICEF and the PCU would be working closely together to ensure that the system for
PMR-based disbursements and procurement management is in place before September 30, 2000, which is
the expected date of effectiveness.
The activities discussed and agreed with the Borrower and UNICEF to remedy the situation, are
incorporated in the attached action plans.
Signed by:          ?N-ft/                   j
Procurement Specialist    V                                /
Vasilios C. Demetriou/MNSHD      Date:



Annex 6 (b)
Page 2 of 3
ACTION PLANS FOR FINANCIAL AND PROCUREMENT MANAGEMENT
ARRANGEMENTS
A- For the Project Coordination Unit
O     Advertise for the position of Project Director (PD), in at least two local newspapers, one in
English and one in Arabic; specifying qualifications and experience. Terms of Reference and
profile are attached.
Status: completed in May, 1999
O     Decide on temporary location of the PCU until the recruitment of the Project Director.
Status: completed
O1    By March 15, 2000, advertise for the position of project financial officer (PFO) and
administrative assistant in at least two local newspapers, one in English and one in Arabic;
specifying qualifications and experience as per the TORs and profile defined in this document.
C1    By July 31, 1999, recruit a qualified PD based on competitive recruitment process.
Status: completed
O     By April 15, 2000, appoint a management consultant to propose and install financial system with
procedures, chart of accounts, reporting requirements, and to train staff on the system in place.
TORs of the management consultant are attached below. The management consultant will make
proposal for putting in place the system agreed on, along with a timeline of implementation.
a]    By April 15, 2000, recruit a qualified Project Financial Officer and administrative assistant based
on competitive recruitment process.
I     By August 31, 1999, choose appropriate premises and furniture for the PCU.
Status: completed
a     By June 30, 2000, appoint an external auditor for the project acceptable to the Bank to audit the
first year of operations and to conduct a review of the internal control system and procedures
being developed. The auditors should prepare an interim management letter in which they detail
their findings following the assessment, and recommendations for the improvement, of the
internal controls. The interim management letter should be issued by the auditorsno later than
August 15, 2000.
0     By May end, 2000, enable the management consulting firm to start work with the PMD and PFO
on the systems and procedures to put in place as agreed.
I     By March 15, 2000, advertise for the positions of accountant and procurement officer in at least
two local newspapers, one in English and one in Arabic; specifying qualifications and experience
as per the TORs and profile defined in this document.
O     Purchase of computer equipment, fax and telephone lines, and proposed software as per
consulting firm's recommendations. Note: to be carried out with UNICEF support.
O     By April 30, 2000, recruit both the accountant and procurement officer based on competitive
recruitment process.



Annex 6 (b)
Page 3 of 3
G     By July end, 2000, test the financial, procurement, and reporting system, along with the
procedures, and prepare an action plan with a timeline for addressing any issue.
O     Between August 15-30, 2000, train staff on systems and procedures just finalized.
El    By September 15, 2000, implement all recommendations made by the auditors to improve the
internal controls.
O     Prior to loan effectiveness, ensure that above actions are implemented to allow the Bank to certify
that the financial and procurement management system in place is adequate and ready for loan
disbursement
El    By October 15, 2000, submission by the SC/PCU of cash forecast based on estimated cash needs
for the first semester of the first year programmed activities for the PCU and UNICEF.
O1    Feb 15, 2001, submit to the Bank the first PMR for the first quarter of project operations.
B- For UNICEF
O     By May end, 2000, UNICEF will generate a sample PMR, reflecting Bank reporting requirements
and according to Project Appraisal Document category of expenditures, from their new Program
Manager System (PROMS). The sample PMR will be communicated to the Bank for review and
feedback.
O     By May end, 2000, UNICEF will review and establish reporting needs from the communities for
three project components (Water and sanitation, Health, and Education) to account for cost
sharing. Proper reporting on receipts and expenditures at the community level need to be defined
and reports received, consolidated at the district level, and communicated to the UNICEF Sana'a
office to be included in the PMR.
El    Assistant financial officer will be hired at UNICEF offices. The officer will receive proper
training on the system in place and the PMR reporting requirements. Note: UNICEF to ensure
adequate capacity within the office.
E     Prior to credit effectiveness, UNICEF will advise on when the PMR reporting is in place and can
be certified for use by the Bank for disbursements.



Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
Republic of Yemen
Child Development Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Planned                Actual
A. Project Budget (US$ thousands)               453.4                 442.5
B. Project Schedule                       (at final PCD stage)
. Time taken to prepare project (months)      12                23 (to date)
. first bank mission (identification)  November 4, 1997    November 4, 1997
. PCD review meeting                March 4, 1998          March 4, 1998
. Appraisal                         November 1, 1998       November 1, 1998
. Negotiations                      September 13-17, 1999   February 19-20, 2000
. Planned date of effectiveness     September 30, 2000
Prepared by: The Higher Council for Motherhood and Childhood in cooperation with the Ministries of
Health, Education, Social Affairs, GAREWS, and UNICEF.
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant TF 25384 (Local, US$105,000) and TF 25331 (Bank executed,
US$345,000).



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
Bank Staff/Consultants
Core team
Tania Barham                  Economist
Vasilios Demetriou            Sr. Implementation Specialist
Arun R. Joshi                 Education Specialist, TTL
Qaiser Khan                   Sr. Human Resources Specialist
Other Team Members
Hadi Abushakra                Legal Counsel
Atsuko Aoyama                 Health Specialist
Rafika Chaouali               Finance Specialist
Robert A. LeVine              Child Development Specialist
Marlaine Lockheed             Sector Manager, Education
Brajesh Panth                 Education Specialist
Vivian Nwachukwu              Team Assistant
Christian Rey                 Sr. Implementation Specialist
Elena Volpi                   Social Scientist
Alia Achsien                  Program Assistant
UNICEF Staff/Consultants
Bilquis Al-Dhabi              Education Officer
Uzma Anzaar                   Community Education Specialist (consultant)
Mark Cohen                    Textbooks Specialist (consultant)
H. Faust                      ORS Specialist (consultant)
Stanley Hall                  Water Specialist (consultant)
Habib Hamman                  Representative
Akhil Iyer                    Program Coordinator
F. Kronful                    Management Specialist (consultant)
Allain Lefevre                Health Specialist (consultant)
Vincent Litt                  Health Specialist (consultant)
Mark Lucet                    Social Sector Specialist (consultant)
Ahmed Magan                   UNICEF Regional Health Officer
Munir Safiledin               Area-based Officer
Zein A. Zein                  Health/Nutrition Officer
Center for Dev. Services      Evaluation Specialists (consultants)
UNICEF Oman Nutrition Team    Community Nutrition Specialists (consultants)
Peer Reviewers
Mariam Cleason (HDN)          Health Specialist
Jacques van der Gaag          Economist



Annex 8
Page 1 of 1
Republic of Yemen
Child Development Project
Documents in the Project File
A.   Project Implementation Plan
1 . Implementation Manual
2.   Operations Manual
3.   Environmental Management Plan
4.   Assessment Volume
5.   Procurement and Financial Assessments
6.   Credit Agreement
7.   UNICEF-GOY Cooperation Agreement for Project Assistance (CAPA)
B.   Bank Staff/Consultant Assessments
1.   Economic Analysis, Tania Barham, 1998
2.   Situation Analysis of Children and Women in Yemen, UNICEF/World Bank/Radda Barna,
1999
3.   The UNICEF Area-based Program, Formative Assessment Report, Center for Development
Services, 1998
4.   Social Assessment, Elena Volpi, Mark Lucet and SOUL, 1998
5.   UNICEF Master Plan of Operations 1999-2001, UNICEF Staff, 1998
6.   Triple-A Nutrition Approach, Oman Nutrition Team, 1998
7.   Early Child Development in Yemen and Elsewhere, Robert LeVine, 1998
8.   Management Note on the Education Component, Brajesh Panth, 1998
9.   Yemeni Council for Motherhood and Childhood - Capacity Development, Baquer Namazi,
1998
10. Female Education and Community Participation, Uzma Anzar, 1998
11. Learning Materials in Basic Education in the Republic of Yemen, Mark Cohen, 1998
12. Introduction of Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI) in the Republic of Yemen, 1998
13. Consultant Report on District Health System in Yemen, Vincent Litt, 1998
14. Consultant Report on Water and Sanitation in Yemen, Stanley Hall, 1998
15. Consultant Report on Management and Organization, Fuad Kronful, 1999
16. Recommendation to Improve the Health Component of the CDP, 1999
17. Consultant Report on ORS Production and Distribution, 1999



Annex 9
Page 1 of A
Statement of Loans and Credits
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RY-CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan/Credit Accounts List as of January 31, 2000
Difference
Between
Expected and
Actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions  Disbursements a
FY   Project ID            Purpose                          IBRD        IDA  Cancel. Undisb.   Orig.          Frm
Rev'd
1991   P005806  RY-MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT                         0.00    36.31       0.00     5.29    -3.03      2.37
1992  P005836  LAND&WATERCONSERVaI                              0.00    32.41       5.55     2.15    6.16       1.24
1992   P005810  NAT.AGRIC.SECT.MGMT                             0.00    14.52       6.00     1.60    6.64       1.05
1993   P005904  BASIC EDUCATION                                 0.00    19.50       0.00     4.98    4.67       1.32
1993   P005910  FAMILY HEALTH                                   0.00    25.28      0.00     15.73   15.95      11.23
1994   P005911  EDUCATION SECTOR                                0.00    32.14       0.00    22.04    17.45      2.60
1996   P043109  RY-PUBLIC WORKS                                 0.00    22.86       0.00     1.37    -0.05      0.00
1996   P041267  RY-TRANSPORT REHABILITATION                     0.00    33.21      0.00    22.79   23.75        6.29
1996   P005912  VOC. TRAINING                                   0.00    21.11       0.00    16.60    13.20      0.00
1997  P048522  FLOOD EMERGENCY                                  0.00    27.97       0.00     8.63     6.60      0.00
1997  P043367  RY-TAIZ W.S. PILOT PROJ                          0.00     9.55       0.00     4.88    5.45       4.07
1997  P041199  SOCIAL FUND DEVPT                                0.00    29.18       0.00     6.97   -11.49      0.00
1998   P043101  RY-FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJ. CREDIT                 0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
1998   P005902  S.GOV AGRI PRIVATIZA                            0.00     23.8       0.00    22.26    9.50       0.00
1998  P039171  SEEDS & AG. SERVICES                             0.00    12.37       0.00     9.18    3.03       0.00
1999   P057915  RY-LEGAL & JUDICIAL DEV                         0.00     2.42       0.00     2.42    0.08       0.00
1999   P060132  RY-PUBLIC WORKS II                              0.00    47.87       0.00    43.12    6.53       0.00
1999   P050530  RY-SANA'A EMERG. POWER                          0.00    54.59       0.00    37.99    6.70       0.00
1999   P005907  RY-SANA'A WS/SANITATION                         0.00    24.74       0.00    20.33    0.56       0.00
2000   P049735  RY-PRIVATIZATION SUPP.                          0.00    10.89       0.00     10.89    0.00      0.00
Total  0.00   480.72      11.55   259.22    111.7    30.17
Notes: Closed projects: 88
a/ Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Annex 1 0
Page 1 of 2
Human Development Indicators - Country At-a-Glance
ISOCIOECONOMIC,                                                           I
GNP per Capita (US$)                                    '0  380                                         430      380    1,840       Stundard of Living & Acess to Services
GNP Average Annual Growth rate (%)                                                                       3 6               1.7
Real GNP per Capita (USS)                                                                                            1-,780
Statndard of t.tvrntt 8                                                                         0          f                                          ; GNP per
Poverty Rate - National - Total (% of total population below poverty line)                  *  190                                                     Capi
Poverty Rate - National - Urban (% of urban population below poverty line)
Poverty Rate - National - Rural (t%6 of rural population below poverty line)                                                    Access to
Sanitations -
Population below $1 a day (1% of population)                                                    190                        4.1  Urban
Poverty Gap - Total (% of poverty line)                                                         5.7                        0.6                        7-        o;
Gini Index (0Q- perfect equality, I = perfect inequality)                                       0.4                        0.4                                 Gap
Income Inequality: Share of Income Accruing to Poorest 20% (% of income)                        6,1
Access to safe water - Rural (%  of population)                                                          c17          *    53
Access to safe water - Urban (% of population)                                                                                              S -afe Water
Access to sanitation - Urban (% of population)                                                       - 70                  96               - Rural
Access to electricity (% of population)                                                                                    82
Pooulation                                                               ,-MNA -Yese-
Population -Total (Millions)                                                   8.5    10.1       1.9    15.3    15.S      272
Average Annual Population Growth Rate (%/O)                                   3.9      3A1      3.7      3.2      3.3      2.4  Education Expenditure & Gross Enrollment Rate
School Age Average Annual Growth Rate - age 5-14 (%)                                             4.1     4.0      4,2
8o
Age Dependency Ratio (dependents to working-age population) - Total            11       1.1     1.1      1.0      1.0      0.8                                             I
Population - Age 60 and above (%3)                                                              4.7      4.9      S.2
TIotal Fertility Rate - Total (live births per woman)                          7 9     7.7      7.5      7.2      7.2      4.2
60---                       . U       p
|EDUCATION
Public Education Expenditure (%oOofGDP)                                                         76       5.1     5.3       4.g
Public Education Expenditure per Student - Primaty (%/O of per capita GDP)                                                                                       _
Public Education Expenditure per Student - Prriary (Local currency)                                                             S_
Public Education Expenditure per student - Secondary (Local currency)
Literacy Rate - Total (%/. of age 15-24)
Literacy Rate: Female (% of age 15-24)                                                                                           o-
Gross Enrollment Rate - Primary - Total 5%)                                                     57       60       60       97        1980    IMS      19so    1990    1996
Gross Enrollmnent Rate - Secondary - Total (%)                                                   23      27       27       64      G--    E -t Rae - Priy - Tot.W(%)
Gross Enrollment Rate - Tertiary - Total (%)                                               ,     43       8                15          -GuestE,ellntRaTe-Secondary To-a(%)
PblP ti d-cfi..epndte (% of GOP
Net Enroliment Rate - Primary - Total (% of age group)                                                   55       55       87        +  P_bli_ _____nor __m__  (_ _f ____  _
Net Enrollment Rate - Primnary - Femnate (% ofage group)                                                 38       is       82         Net EnrolIment Rate (% age group)
Net Enrollment Rate - Primay - Urban - Total (% of age group)                                            75                      6  -                                 __
Net Enrollment Rate - Secondary - Total (% of age group)                                                 t 10              45                                   --16  --45
Net Enrollment Rate - Secondary - Female (% of age group)                             .                   5        9       41
Net Enrollment Rate - Secondary - Urban t% of age group)                     -:
Education Duration - Conulsory (Years)                                                            6       6        S6       6
Average Years of Schooling. Total (Years)                                     .        .          3       3        3        9
Average Years of Schooling - Fernale (Years)                                                                                    20
Cohort Reaching Grade 5 - Total (% of Grade I cohort)                                            67      s3       92
Cohort Reaching Grade 5 - Female (% of Grade 1 cohort)                                           58      69       77
Cohort Reaching Grade 9 - Total (%  of cohort accessing secondary)                               80      89       93:
Cohort Reaching Grade 9 - Ferale (V. of cohort accessing secondary)                              75       85      92                  1s98    19t5    tO      1995    1996
Pupil-Teacher ratio - Primary - Total                                                            3O      32       33       24               Net CEoelsn Rate.Pri-,y-Tota
Pupil-Teacher ratio - Primary - Female - Rural                                                                                           .5 NEt-teust Rte.pnr5y-FemtC
Math Score - Grade 8 (TiMSS)                                                                                                           -   Net eesttneete RaLe-Oecosdny.Tot
Share of Vocational Students in Secondary Level - Total (%)                .. ,                  2.0      1.1     1.0      7. _        -NttE_rollmeatRate-Seco=daly-F_tnale
The dtiamonds showfourkeyindicatam tn the country(inbold)comparand ith MtU4 ,f dfata are missing. te 0oamond will be incomplete
*This data r&fleca vawles ofan adjacentyear. Please refertothe data dlctooaryforadditional infonatior.                                                               01/1.0Da
P.ge I of2



Annex 1 0
Page 2 of 2
Hu          evelopment Indicators - Country At-a-Glance
t l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iN,\
9NI9X   1915    1990    1995    1996    1995
HEALTH & NUTRITION
He alth Expenditure - Total (Millions, local currency)                                        4,026 *  7,069    8,112             GNP per Capita (US$), Health & Education
Public Health Expenditures - (% of Total Health Expenditures)                                   9.1 *      L2     3.2      42             Exptenditures (% of GDP)
Health Expenditure - Total (%/ of GDP)                                                          3.3  *   2.6      .2       4.5  3,0-0                                     9
Health Expenditure - Total (Millions. US S)                                                     805 *   ss9       71             uss                               % GDP
Health Expenditure per capita (USS)                                                             27       39        5      433
Health Expenditure per capita (PPP USS)
Physicians-Total (per 1,000 people)                                      -    0.1      0.2      0.1      0.1     0.2       08 2,0o0                                       6
Nurses - Total (per 1.000 people)                                                               0.2      0.3     0.3
Hospital beds - Total (per 1,000 people)                                                        0.8      0.7,    0.6       1.8
Hospital Bed Occupancy Rate (%/6)                                              .oes *                                                                                     3
Inpatient Admission Rate (%/. of population)                                                                               5.9
Average Length of Stay (All beds) - Total (Days)                                                                          4.2
Outpatient Visits per Capita - Total
Imnnunization - DPT (2 doses) (% of children under 12 months)                   1       t0      89       53                82     o                                       0
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate - Fermale (/ of married women age 15-49)                                                             P   a*     
Births Attended by Trained Health Staff - (% of deliveries)                                                                     -GNP per Capita -'-   Heath --i+--Education
Matermal Mortality Rate (per 100,0001ive births)                                           .        I.ooo
Prevalence of Stunting height for age (% 0-59 months)                                                                                         Health Itdicators
Daily Caloric Intake per Capita (% of requirements)
Life Expectancy at Birth - Total e(O) (Years)                                  49       51       52      54       54       66                          Total
Life Expectancy at Birth - Male e(O) (Years)                                   47       50      52       53       54  *    65                          Fertility
Life Expectancyat Birth-Fenale e(O) (Years)                                    50       51      53       54       54  0    6S
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)                                 141      121     110      100       98        54  Health
Under-Five Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live binhs)                              198      179      163     145      130       72  Expenditure
Probability of dying between ages 15-60 - Maie                                                                                  (% of GDP)
Probability of dying between ages 15-60 - Female
Births
ISOCIAL PROTECTION                                                                                                                                                Attended
by Trained
Health Staff
Labor force participation rate - Total (%)                                                  *    9  *S,49                                   we
Labor force participation rate - Female(%)                                                       17  *  20.S               27               Expectancy
Average Annual Growth Rate of Labor Force (%)                                                   3.S      4.9      5.0      3.4              at Birth -
Distribution of labor forec - Agriculture (% of Nationals)                                      62       66                 24             Total
Distribution of labor force - Agr - Fem (% of Nationals)                                        94       84                               -MNA    -YnT-|
Distributionoflaborforce-Industry(%ofNationals)                                                 16       20                31i
Distribution of labor force - Ind - Ferm (% of Nationals)                                                 9                              Unemployrment & Edueatiorn
Distribttion oflabor force - Services (%/ of Nationals)                                         22       13                45   ,o
Distribution of labor force - Serv - Fem (% of Nationals)                                                 7
Unemployment rate (% ofNationals)                                            .              *  7,0  *   S.3 *   9.1        1S
Unemployment rate - Female - (% of Nationals)                                                   5.0      4.0      1.1
Average monthly wage (local currency)                                                         6,325    9,142
Minimum daily wage (local currency)
Social security contribution rate (as % gross wage bill)                                        6.0      6.0     6.0
Social sectuity coverage (% of labor force)
Penrsion replacement rate (%/.)
Social asistaance budget expenditure (Vs of total expenditure)                                           15.9    24.3                                    _
Social assistance budget expenditure (% of GDP)                                             *   5.5       4.8    12.3
Social assistance coverage (% of population)
Consumer food subsidies (% of GDP)                                                          *   t 9      2.3       5
Assistance prograrms - Cash TransfeTs (% of GDP)                                                            -1980    1985    i99    1995    1996
Assistance programs - Public Works (%h of GDP)                                                              -                        - - -- U=eecrsyeret roLe (% orfNA.oo.ls)
Assistance programs - Other (Social Funds etc.) (% ofGDP)                                        3.6     2.5      6.9            _      -        Ae-g v Sor ling - Two (Y-
The diamonds show fourt key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with MNA, ff data are missing, the diazmond will be incomplete
*This data reft4fs values of an adjacent year. Please refer to the data ditionat for additional infornmation,.                                                       01/j,qyo
Page 2 of 2



Annex 1 1
Page 1 of 3
Republic of Yemen
Child Development Project
Lessons learned from the Social Assessment and Area-Based Program Evaluation
The World Bank Child Development Project (CDP) Social Assessment and the UNICEF Area Based
Program (ABP) evaluation have highlighted several issues as major concerns of disadvantaged rural
communities in Yemen. Most of the human development issues raised in these two assessments have
been addressed in the CDP and are discussed below.
Health
Accessibility. The social assessment highlights the problem of low accessibility to health care in Yemen.
The CDP is rehabilitating and equipping 50 health units and 14 health centers, according to government
policy.  The ABP evaluation acknowledges that the ABP pilot successfully initiated activities in
(previously non-functional) health units, thereby addressing the issue of access.
Outreach activities. The ABP evaluation noted that no outreach activities existed under the ABP pilot,
while the social assessment stressed the need for such activities due to the problem of accessibility to
health care services and information. The CDP includes such outreach activities. Outreach workers will
be provided with a short training session so they can, among other duties, deliver information on relevant
health issues, and provide basic care, such as clean birthing kits and essential nutrition interventions, for
mothers and children. Furthermore, health workers and health committees will be encouraged to liaise
with the local schools and other community groups in the project areas to provide health education and
other services.
Malaria. As evidenced by the social assessment, malaria is the main health concern of the beneficiaries.
The national policy on malaria in Yemen is insufficient. The project will deal directly with the issue of
malaria in the area-based program through case management, health education campaigns, and the
piloting of bednets. Due to its integrated nature, the project can also manage the malaria problem from
the waterside: when new water schemes are developed, proper drainage will reduce the pools of stagnant
water. Types of water schemes, the impact of such schemes on the spread of malaria, and possible
precautions-such as covering wells and placing fish in dams-will be discussed with the communities.
Irrational drug use. As pointed out by the social assessment, irrational drug use is a major problem in
Yemen. The project is approaching this problem in three ways: (i) retraining health workers on rational
drug use; (ii) social mobilization campaigns in and outside of the health facilities to increase community
awareness of the issue; and (iii) including review of prescription practices as part of the district health
management team's (DHMT) and UNICEF health officer's supervision tasks.
Water
Scope of the water component. Both assessments stressed that access to safe drinking water is a high
priority among beneficiaries. In fact, the social assessments suggest that the water component should be
large enough to ensure that there are water and sanitation schemes in all communities in which the
project is working. Water and sanitation is a key intervention in the CDP. The project will fund schemes



Annex 1 1
Page 2 of 3
jointly with the community, as well as coordinate with other donor projects (e.g. proposed Water Supply
and Sanitation project, Dutch rural water project), to provide as many of the communities as possible with
the needed water and sanitation interventions.
Sanitation and drainage. Both assessments point to the need for the ABP to make greater efforts in the
area of sanitation and water drainage. The UNICEF ABP pilot did not provide sanitation interventions,
nor did it ensure sufficient drainage of water around water schemes. As the social assessment points out,
this can lead to the major health risks. The CDP's water and sanitation component is designed to ensure
that every water scheme has an appropriate sanitation and drainage system.
Community participation in the design of water systems. The social assessment suggests providing
communities with greater input into the type of water system chosen so the scheme meets the community's
economic requirements. The CDP's water and sanitation component is based on this principle. The area-
based officer and the government water authority (GAREWS) will visit the communities. Community
views on cost-effective options will be discussed. Given limited project resources, the community will
have the option of paying the extra cost for a more sophisticated system. For example, water will be
provided to a communal tank, not individual homes. Households can have water supplied to their home,
provided they pay for their own pipes and the cost of labor to install and connect them to the communal
tank. The UNICEF ABP evaluation did not refer to this issue specifically, but found the pilot successful
in mobilizing communities to participate in the development of water schemes.
Nutrition
Community nutrition activities. The ABP evaluation recommends including nutrition activities in the
area-based pilot. Furthermore, the social assessment stresses that nutrition activities are important due
to the widespread malnutrition in Yemen and the growing problem offood security. The CDP addresses
malnutrition among children and anemia in women of child-bearing age through a number of
interventions including: (i) providing children with vitamin A supplements and pregnant women with
iron supplements; (ii) introducing growth-monitoring activities at the health facilities and as part of
outreach activities; (iii) training health workers on complementary feeding; and (iv) providing nutrition
information through health education, and information, education, and communication (IEC)messages.
The project will also coordinate with the World Food Program's (WFP) activities.
Education
Barriers to girls' education. Both assessments recognize factors that prevent girls from attending
primary school. These factors include, among others: (i) school costs; (ii) lack of furniture; (iii) lack of
women teachers; (iv) distance to school; (v) insufficient books; and (vi) for the very poor, household tasks
such as fetching water. The ABP evaluation points out that, under the present ABP pilot, these issues
have not been sufficiently dealt with. However, the CDP will tackle many of these barriers by: (i)
providing school kits to help reduce school costs'; (ii) training women teachers; (iii) strengthening the
textbook distribution system to ensure books reach the schools on time; and (iv) incorporating water
systems into the project, thus freeing up girls' time so that they can attend school. Furthermore,
discussions with the community prior to project implementation will be used to highlight the main
barriers to girls' attending primary school in that particular area. Follow-up actions by the community,
the government, and the project for reducing these barriers will be discussed.
' In the new government strategy on girls' education, school fees have been waived for girls which provides a
further monetary incentive.



Annex 11
Page 3 of 3
Recruitment of women teachers. The ABP evaluation recognizes the needfor a quality teacher training
program, but recommends greater coordination between UNICEF and the MOE and the need to meet
minimum standards. The problem of program standards stems from the UNICEF teacher training
program having admitted girls who did not meet the government's minimal requirement of completing
secondary school. The regulation had been relaxed under the UJNICEF program because finding women
with both a secondary education and also the willingness to teach in remote communities was difficult.
Under the CDP, only girls with the government-required minimum of secondary school completion
would be admitted to the teacher training program. Also, any girl admitted to the program is to be hired
by the government within MOE's annual allotment for new hires. More attention will be placed on
relocation of teachers. Such relocation is now feasible due to the recent Teacher's Law, which includes
increased rural allowances.
General
Operations and maintenance/sustainability.  Problems of project sustainability-resulting from
insufficient government budget to cover operations and maintenance costs of schools, health facilities,
and water schemes-were raised by both assessments. Community participation in addressing this
problem is an important aspect of the CDP. For example, part of the money collected from health and
water cost-sharing schemes will be reserved for operations and maintenance. Furthermore, under the
community schools, and water and sanitation components, the community will manage regular
maintenance and many minor repairs. The UNICEF ABP has already piloted these activities, and the
ABP evaluation found that the cost-sharing programs were, on the whole, working well.
Supervision. Presently, government funding for the supervision of health facilities, schools, and water
schemes is limited Without adequate supervision, programs cannot improve or maintain the quality of
services. The project has alleviated this problem in the short run by providing transportation allowances
for health and education facility supervision. This is not a sustainable approach, however, and the
government needs to take on the responsibility. The social assessment recommends remedies for this
problem. The most reliable source of funding would be from cost-sharing schemes in health, but the cost-
sharing law does not allow for such funds to be used for this purpose. The human development group is
carefully reviewing these issues in the context of the Public Expenditure Review and Education and
Health Strategy notes, and is recommending policy reforms for the sustainability of these key issues.
Transportation issuesfor health and education. Both assessments indicated that lack of transportation
to school was one reason why girls could not attend school, and that the high cost of transportation
prevents many families from accessing health services. First, the project is dealing with this issue by
alleviating an underlying cause of this problem: accessibility. The project will construct 30 new schools
and rehabilitate 600 new classrooms, 50 health units, and 14 health centers. Second, local solutions to
transportation problems will be discussed during project planning sessions with Local Development
Committees. The project will also coordinate with the other donor projects, which are involved in school
and health facility construction and rehabilitation, to help ensure sufficient access to education and health
services in the project districts.
Issues not covered by the CDP
The assessments raise a number of issues the CDP has not been able to incorporate, such as government
hiring policies, institutional reform, and decentralization, including piloting new budget allocation
procedures. Such activities are beyond the scope of this project but should be part of the upcoming
Government of Yemen/World Bank reform projects in health, education, and civil service reform, as well
as part of policy dialogue.



4           ~~~~42~                        445                           46-                           48~                           5Ou                            52 -                         540
Thismop osproduced by thV  YEME                                                                                                    SAUDI   ARABIA                  _ -
Mop Desiqn Unit of Tho World Boak.                                   YEL       EN L IA DIAR BI
The boundories, colors drooioohCHL   DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                       -
and aoyother info-asti-onsh non        CHILD  D V L P                             E TPROJECT 
this oap do not in,pty, on the part of                                                                                                     _ 
Tho Worl Bonk Group, any lodgoentGOENRTSTRTDBY-MA
oo the legostotl.s of any t.r.itdrmy                                  GOVERNORATESoTARGETEDrBY                               r                                                                          M  A  N
ony endor,menst or occeptonce of                                       CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                          /
such oooundorte.                                              67    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                   /
-IS8'                                                                  GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                          /
_,____  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                        /
S   C  \__,._                                v2?                                                    /            -               \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
(   SAADAH    /                   05                           sct4A;/
/1                                            ~~~~~~~~MAHRAH
()   q__,'/   5  9   __t_'  _              /                                              }                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16-
'2- A.'                        AL-JOWF                            /                                               '1 --J/
AL-JOWF I0 .   t   1  ,      /HADRAMOUT
-16'         'X,Z                   |HAJJAH1AMARANt'_ _o,aI                                    /
:~     ~       ~       '~ - -                       )N ,/ i                                                                                )l-    sv
:> 8  tAL  .    .qv       MAR18 B
M  .AH ty          3    n'  
:                    >        ^ S   SA~~~~~~$ANA 'A,>              
HODEIDAHz -''                                              SHABWA
\   'D'DHAMAR, '"__   7?                                                                                                                                                       14-
s \ > f 5~~~~~~sv rJ ~~AL-BEIDA    IIt,
x    -q                4                          -~~/I)HLE   ABYAN
'N                          TAIZ  ,,~tAHJ -O0  25  50  75 100 KILDOMETERS                                                                                                                  Socotra
ETHIOPIA               N4lcss
(7)                                                                                                                             0    "I                   IAd.  ui                                    Sma         oa
c E2                                   T H  1 0                        ADEN                                                          25    50    75   100 MILES                      I,drnn Sashoh Darsow
IA                        42           ,/ D;IBOUTI        44                             B6ro4S                                                         509                              52                 therersh     Stl       S)
42' .'    DJIBOUTI              4'46'4'                                                                                         5,0'                             52'-                            545se)



