Report No. PID6601
Project Name                     Yemen-Child Development Project (@)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Health, Education
Project ID                       YEPE50483
Borrower(s)                      Republic of Yemen
Implementing Agency              Yemeni Council for Motherhood and Childhood
Vice Chairman
H.E. Mohamed Abdullah Al-Battani
Telephone: 967-1-262809
Fax:       967-1-262806
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                February 14, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         November, 1998
Projected Board Date             March 30, 2000
Initial PID                      June 22, 1998
1.      Country and Sector Background:   The well-being indicators in the areas
of health and education for children and women are lower in Yemen than in
other MENA countries and for similarly situated lesser-developed countries
(LDCs).
In health, infant and child mortality is high - 83 and 110 per 1,000 live
births respectively. The main contributing causes are: childhood
conditions/diseases such as diarrhea (mainly waterborne), acute respiratory
infections (ARI), malaria; six vaccine preventable diseases; high maternal
mortality (approximately >1000 per 100,000 live births); low access and poor
quality basic health services; and low awareness of household health issues
among the population in general, particularly the uneducated.
Malnutrition is widespread, approximately 309 of Yemeni children are protein-
energy malnourished. In addition, micronutrient deficiencies (i.e., iodine,
vitamin A, and iron) are also significant. This makes Yemen one of the most
nutritionally disadvantaged countries in the world. Some of the major causes
of malnutrition (besides infections mentioned above) include: lack of
knowledge about nutrients, improper feeding practices; lack of micronutrients
and, in some cases, lack of food in households.
In education, enrollment, retention rates, and quality are poor at the basic
education level, particularly for girls. According to the December 1997/98
census and Ministry of Education's statistics, 80 percent of boys between ages
6-15 are in school. In comparison, only 40 percent of girls aged 6-15 are in
school. The rural and urban disparities in enrollment are substantial. Some
of the main factors contributing to low enrollment and poor achievement of
girls are: lack of qualified women teachers; poor physical conditions of
schools such as lack of latrines for girls; direct and opportunity costs for
parents; inadequate educational materials and equipment in classrooms; and



distance to schools. In addition, young children's educability is low given
high levels of malnutrition and low fostering of cognitive and language
development.
2.              Given the above context, the Government's focus has been to expand
access of basic health and education services while attempting also to improve
quality (see for example the National Five Year Plan 1996-2001). However,
even as reforms are underway, progress to date has been slow due to the issues
outlined below.
Health and Education ministries are centralized and have failed to: (a)
effectively reach the beneficiaries with the essential services; (b) foster
community participation thereby engendering community contributions for
program sustainability; and (c) improve quality of services through greater
involvement of and supervision by their subnational offices.
Public spending in the health and education sectors is not efficient. While
public funding must increase in health, resources in both the education and
health sectors are not utilized optimally.
Health and Education policies have focused too heavily on 'supply' of services
(with a focus on infrastructure). The focus has been almost exclusively on
'expansion' of services with little, if any, effort in providing incentives,
increasing demand, and improving quality.
Coordination of health and education sub-national programs, information
sharing, and monitoring of children's well-being is lacking.     The social
sector ministries, including their counterparts in the governorates and
districts are isolated from one another and do not interact in order to
generate synergy from their interventions.
3.              Project Objectives:    To assist the Government in the
implementation of an integrated area-based program (ABP) for improving the
health and nutritional status of children under five and the educational
status of girls in primary school in areas that are currently underserved.
Performance indicators include reduced under five mortality; improved
nutritional status of young children; and increased enrollment and achievement
of girls up to grade six. The project will be implemented in the context of
the health and education sectors policies being developed by the Government.
4.               Project Description:  The proposed project is expected to have the
following project components:
Community Readiness Program: In order to improve readiness of communities for
collaboration with district offices and NGOs, Local Development Committees
(LDC) will be activated/ established and relevant training to key members
provided in the domains of assessing needs, capacities, community planning in
health and nutrition, education, and water.
Health Activity: in order to address the major causes of high child mortality,
the following activities are proposed:
Relevant training and inputs provided at district health facilities and, when
needed, governorate level offices. Essential packages of preventive and
curative services made available at the health units, health centers and some
-2 -



MCH referral facilities.
Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI) approach used at the
district health facilities with a focus on training health personnel and
provision of equipment and supplies to address these diseases in an
'integrated' manner.
Immunization Program supported for all children in the nine governorates.
'Safe motherhood' program supported with a focus on the provision of safe
birthing and midwifery kits and pilot referral services.
Community water and sanitation schemes for safe water availability and waste
disposal supported in the identified districts. (The approach to be consistent
with the Water Policy of IDA and the Government, focusing on cost-sharing in
communities for establishing/maintaining water systems.)
Nutrition Activity: in order to address protein energy malnutrition (PEM) and
micro-nutrient deficiencies, community/ district-based nutrition activities
will be supported, including growth monitoring and rehabilitation, nutrition
education and counseling and provision of micro-nutrients (e.g., Vit. A.) in
the identified districts.
Education Activity: in order to improve girls' enrollment, retention, and
achievement in primary schools the following are proposed:
Community schools established in the identified districts. Appropriate
measures taken to ensure that schools meet necessary physical requirements
such as latrines for girls and address the main concerns of parents. Schools
supervised by the district education offices, also to be strengthened.
Quality of schools enhanced through the involvement of parents, teachers, and
community leaders.
Targeted/limited and effective women teacher training supported.
Textbooks storage and distribution system supported.
ECD Pilot Activity: in order to identify successful model/s for future
expansion to improve the educability of children in difficult circumstances,
support the study of the current conditions of child rearing and explore the
need for early child development interventions in Yemen.
5.              Project Cost and Financing:   Project cost is tentatively estimated
to be US$45.3 million. Proposed financing includes IDA US$28.86 million,
UNICEF US$12.41 million, Government of Yemen US$2.40 million, and Communities
US$1.63 million.
6.              Project Implementation:   The project will operate under the
guidance and oversight of the Yemeni Council for Childhood and Motherhood
(YCMC). A project steering committee will be formed from a subset of the
members of the YCMC. The steering committee will be chaired by the Secretary
General of the YCMC and will include Deputy Ministers (or representatives) of
the ministries of Health, Education, Planning and General Authority for Rural
Electricity and Water Supply (GAREWS).
7.              A Project Coordination Unit will be set up to assist the steering
committee. Its role will be to present annual plans and budget to the
Steering Committee, facilitate release of counterpart funds, manage the
special account, invite bids for works and goods, sign contracts with
contractors and suppliers, monitor all project activities, keep project
accounts, consolidate PMRs, and facilitate project auditing. UNICEF will
- 3 -



enter into a Cooperation Agreement for Project Assistance (CAPA) with the
Government to implement substantial parts of the project.
8.              Project Sustainability:    Both institutional and financial
sustainability are crucial because as quality services are expanded,
expenditure needs for expansion as well as recurrent budget will increase. In
the medium term, the increase in recurrent expenses can be contained by the
Government's commitment to increase budgetary allocations to the social
sectors and through savings generated from reform efforts currently underway.
9.              The most essential element of sustainability for this project,
however, is involvement of the community, which will participate in
identifying and analyzing issues, managing implementation, and also
supplementing the resources through in-kind and cash contributions.
10.             Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector:    There
are three lessons learned from prior IDA experience in Yemen in the social
sectors that are reflected in the basic design of the proposed project:
Complicated projects (e.g., the Education Sector Investment Project) were
designed without sufficient attention given to the management and
administrative capacity of the Ministries and related agencies to handle these
projects. Even as the central bureaucracy reforms itself and enhances its
capacity through IDA support, the proposed project will utilize UNICEF's
expertise in reaching disadvantaged (in health, nutrition, education)
communities in need of essential services.
Projects were designed without adequate collaboration with other partners who
have extensive knowledge and experience in Yemen. The proposed project is
being designed with extensive UNICEF support. Other agencies such as WFP,
UNFPA, bilateral donors, and NGOs, are also expected to be involved.
Most projects rarely analyzed the public finance implications, thereby
creating unsustainable scenarios for the program. The proposed project, in
collaboration with the ongoing Public Expenditure Review in health and
education, has analyzed the public finance implications of project inputs.
11.             Poverty Category:   The proposed project is a poverty reduction
operation (poverty defined broadly) as it provides essential services to
children (and families) in districts which suffer from relatively high under-
five mortality and low levels of girls' enrollment. Although income indicator
is not used in the targeting, the above stated indicators are well known to be
highly correlated with income.
12.             Environmental Aspects:   There are no irreversible environmental
issues. However, the following environmental issues need to be addressed:
(a) contamination of water resources (b) improper wastewater discharges (c)
mishandling of chemical wastes. Sub-projects are not yet identified.
Therefore a screening mechanism and environmental review system will be put in
place by the PCU on the basis of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP). The
EMP will provide the mitigation measures for constructing appropriate water
storage for preventing water contamination, construction of proper drainage
and latrines to diminish wastewater discharges into the soil and proper
disposal of infectious wastes in sealed containers. A category B was assigned
because of the limited adverse environment impact. In accordance with OD 4.01
- 4 -



a separate EMP is required and has been prepared. Progress of the
implementation of the EMP will be submitted annually by the PCU as part of the
annual progress report. Bank supervision missions will review the EMP
progress and monitor its implementation.
13.             Program Objectives Category:   The proposed project will contribute
to institution building, service delivery of essential health and education
packages, and address gender issues.
14.             Project Risks:    The proposed project's overall risk-rating is
modest to substantial. One potentially substantial risk is sub-national
government capacity being weak in implementation. This risk will be addressed
by involving UNICEF at the sub-national level.
15.             Other risks include (i) demand for health and education services
may not rise, (ii) data not accurate and political considerations in district
selection, (iii) local participation constrained by the central bureaucracy
and (iv) UNICEF current capacity moderate.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Arun R. Joshi
MNSHD
Middle East and North Africa
Yemen Resident Mission
Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Telephone: 967-1-413708, 710
Fax: 967-1-413709
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending Fabruary 25, 2000.
- 5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-6-



