Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3326-YEM
Development Credit Agreement
(Child Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 3, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3326-YEM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 3, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from UNICEF (as this term is hereinafter 
defined) a grant (the UNICEF Grant) in an amount equivalent to twelve million four 
hundred thousand dollars ($12,400,000) to finance Parts B.2, E.2, F.2, G.2, H.2, I.2 
and K.2 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the 
UNICEF Grant Agreement) entered into between the Borrower and UNICEF on December 29, 
1998; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Cooperation Agreement for Project Assistance” means the agreement 
entered into between the Borrower and UNICEF (as this term is hereinafter defined) on 
February 14, 2000, pursuant to which UNICEF shall, in consideration of a management 
fee, undertake certain responsibilities pertaining to the implementation of the 
Project, including, without limitation, responsibilities for the procurement of works, 
consultants services and certain goods under Parts A, B.1, C, D, E.1, F.1, G.1, H.1, 
I.1, J and K.1 of the Project, the development of annual Project implementation plans 
and the preparation of annual budgets;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) 
set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Borrower’s plan, dated December 
1998, as such plan may be updated from time to time by agreement of the Borrower and 
the Association, for implementation of the Project in accordance with appropriate 
environmental standards and guidelines, and includes an environmental mitigation plan, 
an environmental monitoring plan and certain institutional strengthening measures;
(e)
“GAREWS” means the General Authority for Rural Electrification and Water 
Supply of the Borrower established pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 230 of 1992, as 
the same may be amended from time to time;
(f)
“HCMC” means the Higher Council for Motherhood and Childhood, an 
organization established under the laws of the Republic of Yemen pursuant to 
Presidential Decree No. 321, dated September 20, 1999, as the same may be amended from 
time to time;
(g)
“MOE” means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
(h)
“MOH” means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower;
(i)
“Operations Manual” means the Borrower’s manual, acceptable to the 
Association, issued on July 31, 1999, setting out, inter alia, the procedures and 
criteria pursuant to which districts in the Project Area (as this term is hereinafter 
Page  3
defined) shall be selected for the carrying out of certain activities contemplated 
under the Project;
(j)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit to be established within HCMC 
(as this term is hereinafter defined) in accordance with the provisions of Section 
6.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(k)
“Project Area” means the governorates of Sana’a, Hajja, Hodeida, Ibb, 
Almahra, Lahej, Abyan, Amaran and A’Dalia;
(l)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(n)
“Steering Committee” means the committee to be established in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 6.01 (b) to this Agreement; and
(o)
“UNICEF” means the United Nations Children’s Fund, an inter-governmental 
organization established by the General Assembly of the United Nations by Resolution 
No. 57 (i), dated December 11, 1946, as a subsidiary organ of the United Nations, 
having its headquarters at UNICEF House, 3 United Nations Plaza, New York, New York 
10017.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty one million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR21,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for Parts A, B.1, C, D, E.1, F.1, G.1, H.1, 
I.1, J and K.1 of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
Page  4
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2010, and ending March 15, 
2040.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2020, 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical, and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Environmental Management Plan, the Operations Manual 
and the provisions of the Cooperation Agreement for Project Assistance.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for Parts A, B.1, C, D, E.1, F.1, 
G.1, H.1, I.1, J and K.1 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  5
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: (a) prepare, on the basis of 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the Project’s objectives; and (b) afford the Association a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project: (a) retain 
UNICEF under the Cooperation Agreement for Project Assistance; and (b) promptly inform 
the Association of any condition, act, omission or potential dispute which shall 
interfere, or threaten to interfere, with the performance of either party of its 
obligations under the Cooperation Agreement for Project Assistance.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each fiscal 
year, (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such financial statements, records 
and accounts and a report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports submitted during each 
fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Page  6
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management 
Report for such period which:
(a)
(i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report, and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances 
between actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under Parts A, B.1, C, D, E.1, F.1, 
G.1, H.1, I.1, J and K.1 of the Project and expenditures under contracts financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
UNICEF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Cooperation Agreement for Project Assistance.
(b)
The Cooperation Agreement for Project Assistance shall have been amended, 
suspended, terminated or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability 
of UNICEF to perform any of its obligations thereunder.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the UNICEF Grant shall have been 
suspended, canceled 
or terminated, in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
shall 
establish to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) 
such suspension, 
cancellation or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
for Parts B.2, E.2, F.2, G.2, 
H.2, I.2 and K.2 of the Project are available to 
the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations 
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) (ii).
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Page  7
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
that the financial management system referred to under Section 4.01 (a) 
of this Agreement has been established and is deemed to be acceptable to the 
Association;
(b)
that a committee responsible for overseeing the carrying out of the 
Project has been established with membership and terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association; and
(c)
that a Project coordination unit has been established with experienced 
staff in adequate numbers whose qualifications are acceptable to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Cooperation Agreement 
for Project Assistance has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower, and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Development
P. O. Box 175
Sana’a
Republic of Yemen
Cable address: 
Telex:
2266
CENPLAN YE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Page  8
By /s/ Ahmed Sofan 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kemal Dervis 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Credit 
   % of 
Allocated (Expressed
Expenditures 
Category
  in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works under 
    3,100,000
90%
Parts A, B.1, C, D, 
E.1, F.1, G.1, H.1, 
I.1, J and K.1 of 
the Project
(2)
Goods under Parts A, 
   10,200,000
100% of foreign
B.1, C, D, E.1, F.1, 
expenditures, 100%
G.1, H.1, I.1, J and 
of local expenditures
K.1 of the Project
(ex-factory cost);
and 85% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants’ services 
    2,600,000
100%
under Parts A, B.1, C, 
D, E.1, F.1, G.1, H.1, 
I.1, J and K.1 of the 
Project
(4)
Training under Parts A, 
    1,300,000
100%
B.1, C, D, E.1, F.1, 
G.1, H.1, I.1, J and 
K.1 of the Project
(5)
Project Management 
      900,000
100%
and UNICEF’s management 
fee
(6)
Operational Support and 
    1,300,000
70%
textbook distribution 
under Parts A, B.1, C, 
D, E.1, F.1, G.1, H.1, 
I.1, J and K.1 of the 
Project
(7)
Unallocated
    1,800,000
Page  9
TOTAL
   21,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “Project Management” means, expenditures, on account of Parts A, 
B.1, C, D, E.1, F.1, G.1, H.1, I.1, J and K.1 of the Project, for the management 
services provided by the PCU staff; and
(d)
the term “Operational Support” means expenditures, on account of Parts A, 
B.1, C, D, E.1, F.1, G.1, H.1, I.1, J and K.1 of the Project, for transportation 
costs, utility charges and office supplies.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its 
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association for the purposes 
of Parts A, B.1, C, D, E.1, F.1, G.1, H.1, I.1, J and K.1 of the Project. Except as 
the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  Payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the 
Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the 
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, after the Association has 
received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account shall be 
supported by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the 
amount so requested; and (ii) the amount which the Association has determined, based 
on the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.  Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
Page  10
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
4.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
5.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in implementing 
policies and strategies whose objectives are to improve the health and nutrition of 
children under five (5) years of age and the educational status of primary school 
girls in economically disadvantaged parts of the country.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Capacity Building Program for Project Area Communities
Carrying out a program whose objective is to assist local communities in 
identifying health, nutrition and education issues affecting their daily lives, and in 
planning productive initiatives in each of the three above-mentioned sectors.
Part B:
Health System Strengthening
1.
Carrying out, through the execution of works, a program to rehabilitate pilot 
referral health facilities, health centers and health units, and another program, 
consisting of the provision of training and technical assistance, to improve the 
operational capabilities of health offices in the Project Area.
2.
Provision of goods to equip the facilities, centers and units referred to under 
Part B.1 of the Project.
Part C:
Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses
Carrying out, through the provision of goods, including oral re-hydration 
solution sachets, expert services and training of physicians and health workers, a 
Page  11
program to develop, and thereafter implement, a management strategy to integrate 
approaches to the treatment of children stricken by acute respiratory infections, 
diarrheal diseases, malaria, measles and malnutrition.
Part D:
Immunization Program
Carrying out, through the provision of goods, including vaccines, expert 
services and training, a program to increase the coverage rate of vaccines for 
measles, tetanus, whooping cough, tuberculosis and poliomyelitis, and the enhancement 
of the capabilities of local health facilities to cope with childhood illnesses.
Part E:
Safe Motherhood
1.
Carrying out, through the provision of goods and expert services, a program to 
enhance the quality of obstetric services and the ability of hospitals and health 
centers to perform child deliveries.
2.
Carrying out a training program, including workshops, to educate outreach 
workers and other health facilities’ personnel on pre- and post-natal care.
Part F:
Water and Sanitation Schemes
1.
Carrying out, through the provision of technical assistance, training and the 
execution of works, a program to provide drinking water and sanitation services to 
selected communities and districts in the Project Area.
2.
Provision of goods required for the carrying out of the technical assistance, 
training and works referred to under Part F.1 of the Project.
Part G:
Nutrition Programs
1.
Provision of technical assistance and training to selected nutrition specialists 
in the Project Area in the field of nutrition surveillance and analysis.
2.
Provision of medical and growth monitoring equipment to local health facilities 
to strengthen their capabilities of assessing and analyzing children’s nutritional 
problems.
Part H:
Community Schools
1.
Preparation of architectural designs, in connection with schools to be built and 
rehabilitated under Part H.2 of the Project, and the carrying out of a training 
program for community schools administrators in the Project Area.
2.
Carrying out, through the execution of works and the provision of goods, study 
visits and expert services, a program to rehabilitate existing schools and build new 
schools, and improve the quality of teaching and learning in the Project Area.
Part I:
Female Teacher Training
1.
Carrying out, through the provision of goods and expert services, a program to 
modernize and improve the existing training curriculum for school teachers.
2.
Carrying out a program, consisting of workshops, with a view to training female 
teachers on the modernized curriculum referred to under Part I.1 of the Project.
Part J:
Textbook Storage and Distribution
Carrying out, through the execution of works and the provision of goods, expert 
services and training, a program to rehabilitate existing textbook storage facilities, 
build new textbook storage facilities and improve the existing textbook distribution 
system.
Part K:
Early Childhood Development
1.
Carrying out a program, consisting of the provision of expert services and 
training, to (a) evaluate child rearing practices and child care needs prevalent among 
Page  12
economically disadvantaged families in urban and rural areas, and child care services 
currently available to said families; (b) design and implement community-based, 
financially sustainable interventions aimed at improving early childhood development; 
and (c) evaluate the developmental impact of said interventions.
2.
Provision of goods and execution of small works required to carry out the 
activities referred to under Part K.1 of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works under Parts A, B.1, C, D, E.1, F.1, G.1, 
H.1, I.1, J 
and K.1 of the Project
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Association in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $200,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to 
large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Page  13
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $260,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $374,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement from UNICEF
Oral re-hydration solution sachets under Part C of the Project, and vaccines and 
related accessories under Part D of the Project, may be procured from UNICEF in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for Parts A, B.1, C, D, E.1, F.1, G.1, H.1, 
I.1, J and K.1 of the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to the first contract for works, the first contract for goods, each 
contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more and each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants under Parts A, B.1, C, D, E.1, F.1, G.1, H.1, 
I.1, J and 
K.1 of the Project
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured (a) in accordance with the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the 
following provisions of Parts of this Section II.
Page  14
2.
In paragraphs 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under Parts A, B.1, C, D, E.1, F.1, G.1, H.1, 
I.1, J and K.1 of the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms and 
for training activities estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Schedule
1.
The Borrower shall vest the responsibility for implementing Parts A, B, C, D, E 
and G of the Project in MOH, Part F of the Project in GAREWS and Parts H, I, J and K 
in MOE. MOH, GAREWS and MOE shall be assisted in the carrying out of their 
responsibilities by PCU and UNICEF.
2.
In order to ensure proper implementation of Parts A, B.1, C, D, E.1, F.1, G.1, 
Page  15
H.1, I.1, J and K.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee 
and PCU, as provided for under Sections 6.01 (b) and 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, 
respectively. The Steering Committee shall operate under the oversight and guidance of 
HCMC and shall, in addition to the responsibilities stated under Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement, be vested with the responsibility, inter alia, for approving annual Project 
implementation plans prepared by UNICEF and PCU, assessing progress in the carrying 
out Parts A, B.1, C, D, E.1, F.1, G.1, H.1, I.1, J and K.1 of the Project and 
supervising UNICEF’s performance thereunder. PCU shall be responsible for the 
financial management process and the procurement of goods, other than those to be 
procured by UNICEF under the Cooperation Agreement for Project Assistance, under Parts 
A, B.1, C, D, E.1, F.1, G.1, H.1, I.1, J and K.1 of the Project, and for overseeing 
the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
