Document of
bThe World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
RepostNO. 10192
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 1742-TU)
DECEMBER 27, 1991
.~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .
k                  c.c>s-cG 1        a 0a    19 032/°
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document his a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
theif official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



'CUX ENaC EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                -  Turkish Lire (TL)
US$ 1.00 (at Appraisal)      _  TL    25
* US$ 1.00 (at Re-Appraisal)   -  TL   320
US$ 1.00 (at Closing)        -  TL 2,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)     -  2.20 pounds
1 metric ton        - 1,000 kilograms
1 metric ton        -  0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
CP               FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
FAO              Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
OPC              Operational Planning Committee
PCC              Project Coordinating Committee
PCR              Project Completion Report
PIU              Project Implementation Unit
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
SPO              State Planning Organization
TCDD             Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Devlet Demir-yollari
(Turkish State Railways)
TMO              Toprak Mahsulleri Ofisi (Turkish Grain Board)
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
WB               World Bank
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Turkey    - January 1 to December 31
TMO                     - January 1 to December 31
TCDD                    - January 1 to December 31
World Bank              - July 1 to June 30



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office co Mec4w.C.wta
OPftkl Evaslw th
December 27, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Turkey -
Grain Storage Project (Loan 1742-TU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Turkey - Grain Storage Project (Loan 1742-TUI)" prepared by
the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office with Part II of the
report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUPREY
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
(L-OAN 1742-TU)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . . . .                      1
1.   Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.  Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      1
General      .     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
Sector Development Objectives and Strategy   . . . . . . . . . .    2
3.   Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Project Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Project Description    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
4.   Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Design    .     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  4
Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
5.   Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        5
General      .     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  5
Construction of Storage Facilities   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      5
Improvement in TMO's Operations    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      6
Policy Reforms   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      7
6. Project Results and Impact.                                                                 7
Incremental Storage Facilities   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      7
Institutional Strengthening of TMO   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      8
Policy Reforms.                                                                     8
Economic Rate of Return.                                                            8
7.   Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       9
8.   Bank Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
9. Borrower Performance.  ..................                                                 10
10.   Project Relationships   .....................                                          11
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont'd)
11.  Studies and Consulting Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Studies    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .  11
Consulting Services   ....... ......... .                                11
12.  Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . .    12
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
TABLES
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits .13
2.   Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
3.   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements . . . . . . .    15
4.   Project Implementation ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  16
5.   Project Costs and Financing  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  17
6.   Project Results  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  19
7.   Status of Covenants  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    20
8.   Use of Bank Resources  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  22
ANNEX 1: Tables 1 to 3
MAP 1: IBRD 14195RO



(i)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 1742-TU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Grain Storage project in
Turkey, for which Loan 1742-TU, in the amount of US$ 85.0 million, was
approved on June 13, 1979. The project was reformulated in November 1984 when
US$ 6.0 million of the loan was cancelled and a revised loan in the amount of
US$ 79.0 million approved on March 29, 1985. The revised loan closed on June
30, 1990 on schedule. It was fully disbursed.
The report is based inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal and Re-Appraisal
Reports; the Loan and Project agreements; supervision reports; correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; and information
gathered by the CP mission which visited Turkey in May 1991.1/  Part II of
the PCR was prepared by Toprak Mahsulleri Ofisi (TMO), also known as the
Turkish Grain Board.
1/ A draft report was prepared with the assistance of the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program (CP). The report was reviewed and finalized by the EMENA
Country Department I, Agriculture Operations Division.



(iii)
TURKEY
zRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 1742-TU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
euivs
1.        Throughout the seventies and eighties, Turkey's economic development
strategy was predicated on industrial development, with agriculture playing
a supporting role. This role, nevertheless, was important in terms of
employment, export earnings, and above all, the supply of the country's food
requirements. Self-sufficiency in food grains, particularly wheat, was a high
priority on the Government agricultural strategy and efforts were being made
to stimulate production through attractive and stable producer prices, input
subsidies and low-cost credit. Farmer response was good and there was a
tremendous increase in wheat production. The increased production, however,
put a heavier strain on the Turkish Grain Board's (TMO's) insufficient storage
facilities. Future production increases would aggravate the problem. A large
program of new storage construction was therefore needed to increase capacity,
reduce quantity and quality losses, and improve domestic and export
distribution efficiency. The main objective of this project was to contribute
towards the attainment of those goals as well as fostering the introduction
of institutional improvements in TMO.
Implementation
2.        The original loan became effective in January 1980 after three
months' delay to enable Government to fulfil all the conditions for loan
effectiveness.
3.        Project start-up was slow and difficult because TMO did not have
prior experience in implementing Bank-funded projects. TMO also lacked
adequate commitment to the project idea because it had not been fully
convinced of the project design recommendations particularly those relating
to silo construction. The Consulting Engineers were appointed late - eighteen
months after the project started - and TMO kept changing its preferences for
silo locations and capacity. These delayed any roal progress on the project
to the extent that by mid-1983, only 18 months before the scheduled project
completion, no construction work had started. Because of the stalled
implementation, only US$ 4.3 million or 5% of the total loan had been
disbursed by June 1984. By then large cost-escalations were foreseen and the
project had clearly become uneconomic. At the time, Turkey was undergoing
substantial macro-economic reforms and it was felt by all parties that
canceling the project altogether would be counter-productive and would send
a wrong signal. The Bank and TMO therefore agreed to reformulate the project.
The incremental storage facilities to be funded by the project were reduced
from 910,000 tons to 755,000 tons; the silo design, capacities and locations
were revised; and more policy-related instruments were included in the
project. US$ 6 million of the WB Loan was canceled. The project was extended
for 5 years.



(iV)
4.        The  revised  projeet  got  underway  in  September  1985.  Its
implementation was generally smooth. TMO were agreeable and committed to the
project.  They  moved  quickly  to  appoint  the  consultant  engineers  and
contractors  and re-enforced the Project  Implementation Unit which was
responsible to oversee the work of the consultants and contractors. The
construction works were generally completed on schedule and were of a very
high quality. TMO however was not able to carry out all the training program
for the silo managers as envisaged in the project because it lacked enough
managers who were fluent in foreign languages so as to be able to follow
courses overseas. Steps were taken, with various degrees of success, to
implement the other institutional reform measures. In the policy reform area,
Government allowed TMO to seasonably vary the purchase and selling prices of
grain withiui limited ranges. TMO's grain reserve stocks however remained in
excess of requirements most of the period. This, combined! 7-th Government
inability to inject adequate equity into TMO and to compensate it for losses
incurred under the price support policies, have l-ft TMO in a financially
perilous state.
Results
5.        The project constructed additional storage capacity of 745,000 tons
on 57 different sites. The new facilities will assist TMO make a step closer
towards rationalizing and more efficient performance of its storage and
marketing functions. TMO's organization and management were improved through
upgrading the data processing and information systems as well as initiating
moves towards integrated planning. However, the financial autonomy envisaged
in the project did not materialize and TMO continued to rely heavily on
Government funding.
6.        Policies were started that would eventually liberalize the marketing
of grain. TMO was allowed to vary the purchasing and selling prices of grain.
The ranges of variations are however controlled by Government with the result
that they do not necessarily reflect the financial and market situations
existing at the time. The project did not achieve its objective of reducing
TMO's maximum level of grain reserve. The reserve stock remained, most of the
time, well above the 4.5 months requirements stipulated at re-appraisal.
7.        The quantifiable benefits of the project are expected to realize
economic rates of return (ERR) of 12% for port-silos, 19% for inland storage
and 16% for the combined Port and Inland operations. These compare fairly well
with the re-appraisal estimates.
8.        Overall, the project laid the basis for more efficient storage and
marketing functions through additional storage, more integrated planning,
policies for liberalization of marketing and created an increasing awareness
of the need for financial autonomy for TMO.
Sustainability
9.        The storage facilities have been built to very high standards and
will easily last 50 years if they are properly maintained. However for
financial viability, the port silos have to try to attain and maintain a
turnover of at least 6 while the inland silos will need a turnover of at least
2.



(v)
10.       Under the project, considerable achievements have been made in
improving the organization and operational procedures of TMO. To. further
improve its efficiency, the institutional reforms initiated by the project
wiill need to be continued. The structural and policy reforms initiated under
the project, particularly those which have a direct bearing on TMO's
operational efficiency, need to be continued as well. Policies should' be
followed that encourage farmers, millers and others to. take an increased sharpe
of the grain storage function, thereby easing the heavy storage costs
currently borne by TMO.
Findings and Lessons Learnt
11.       The project has demonstrated that for successful implementation, the
host agency responsible for implementing the project should appreciate and be
committed to the project ideas. If in the course of implementing a project,
it becomes apparent that the project's fundamental features are flawed, it is
beneficial to restructure it rather than continue with it in its original
state. The project has also shown that before embarking on such a complex and
widely dispersed project, the Bank should make sure thac adequate technical
and managerial capabilities to carry out project accivities exist in the
implementing agency. On the policy reform side, the project has confirmed that
producer marketing price reforms cannot be implemented in isolation but must
be part of a wider agricultural reform process.



PROJECT CMPL ETION REPORT
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 1742-TU)
a            ~~~~PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
.W ' 1.o e't, Ident,ity
Project Name:           Grain Storage Project
Loan No.                1742-TU
RVP Unit    :           EMENA Region
Country,                Turkey
Sector                  Agriculture
Sub-sector              Marketing
2. Background
General
2.1       The project originated from a UNDP project executed by FAO in 1975-
76 which produced a Master Plan for the grain storage needs of the Toprak
Mahsulleri Ofisi (TMO) also knour. as the Turkish Grain Board. The necessity
for suce. a Master Plan hac. become apparei.t because of continuing increases in
and the changing geographical pattern of grain production.
2.2       The World Bank (WB) expressed interest in financing TMO's storage
requirements  at  the  time  and  a  FAO/IBRD  Cooperative  Program  (CP)
identification mission visited Turkey in October 1976. By then, however, TMO's
storage problem had become so acute that it obtained approval for Government
itself to finance a first-stage much-needed construction of 530,000 tons of
storage facilities. In late 1977, renewed Government and TMO interest was
expressed for WB assistance in fulfilling TMO's additional storage
requirements. Consequently, a CP mission visited Turkey during May 1978 and
submitted a preparation report to the Bank in August 1978. On the basis of
that report the project was appraised by the WB in October 1978, approved by
the Board in June 1979 and became effective in January 1980.
2.3       The project was scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1984 and
the loan to be closed on June 30, 1985. However, as of December 1982, when a
mid-term Bank supervision mission visited Turkey, it became apparent that
project implementation was virtually at a standstill. No construction work had
yet started and only 4% of the total Loan had been disbursed. In July 1983 the
Bank and the Government agreed to reformulate the project. The project was re-
appraised in October 1983 and recommendations were made to have the closing
date extended by 5 years to December 1989. The re-designed project was
approved by the Board in March 1985 and became effective in September 1985.
It closed in December 1989, on achedule.



-2
sogter .DeveloDment Ob1ectives and Strategy
2.4       During the seventies and eighties, Turkey's economic development
strategy was predicated on industrial development, with agriculture playing
a supporting role. This role, nevertheless, was important: agriculture
employed more than 50% of the total labor force; over 60% of the population
were dependant on the sector; it supplied the country's requirements for
grains and most other basic foods; and produced more than half of Turkey's
merchandise exports.
2.5       It had long been the policy of the Govertment to assure agricultural.
producers attractive and stable prices for their crops. With the incentive of
price supports, input subsidies, and low-cost interest credit, farmers quickly
adopted adva,tced technology: mechanization moved ahead rapidly and the use of
improved seeds, fertilizers, and farm chemicals made great headway, Self-
sufficiency   in food grains, particularly wheat, was for a long time an
objective of the Turkish Government. The above improvements and good weather
helped Turkey become not only self-sufficient in wheat but a small exporter,
as well. This was expected to continue; assuming average weather conditions
and at a 3% p.a. growth rate, Turkey was hoping tc be exporting from 2 to 2.5
million tons yearly by 1985.
2.6       The tremendous increase in wheat production in recent years had
aggravated an already serious problem, namely lack of sufficient TMO storage.
iuture increases in production would make the problem untenable. A large
program of new construction was therefore needed to reduce quantity and
quality losses of grain in open storage; to improve capacity for efficient
domestic distribution and consignment to ports of shipment; and to improve the
efficiency of handling and storage at ports of shipment.



-3-
R        0bet jQbiective!
3.1       The original project had two main objectives:
Mi)       to improve TMO's capacity to store and market grains
domestically or for export, and
(ii)      to foster the introduction of institutional improvements
in TMO and the wheat subsector, including an assessment
of Turkey's agricultural subsidy program and land-use
strategy.
Project DescriptioU
3.2       The projept comprised the following six components;
(i)       construction of 910,000 tons facilities composing of
860,000 tons of inland and 50,000 tons of port storage
facilities;
(ii)      improvements of silos at two existing ports;
(iii)     improvement in grain transport by the provision of 300
rail hopper wagons;
(iv)      engineering design and construction supervision over all
grain storage facilities;
(v)       improvement in TMO's processing of key management data,
communications between offices, and training of silo
managers and staff; and
(vi)      a study of Turkey's land-use strategies with special
reference to wheat and other food grains and the effects
of the agricultural price and input subsidy programs.
3.3       When the project was re-formulated and re-appraised in 1984, the
basic concept of the project remained to have adequate storage facilities to
meet the operational needs of TMO and render its operations more efficient.
All the components in the original project were retained except the one
relating to a study of Turkey's land-use strategy which was dropped because
a UNDP-funded operation was carrying out a similar study. The incremental
storage capacity to be constructed by the project was also reduced Loin
910,000 tons to 755,000 tons, comprising 605,000 tons of inland and 150,000
tons of port storage facilities.
3.4       Total project costs were originally estimated at US$ 206 m'llion of
which the Bank woutld fund US$ 85 million or 41% of total financing
requirements. TMO was to provide US$ 89 million or 43% of total costs, while
the National Railway Company (TCDD) was to contribute US$ 32 million towards
the construction cost of the rail hopper wagons. When the project was re-
formulated in 1984, total costs of the revised project were estimated at US$
105 million. US$ 6 million of the Bank Loan was canceled thus reducing Bank
funding to US$ 79 million. The remainder US$ 26 million was to be provided by



-4-
TMO.  Mo funding was required from TCDD because  it had completed the
construction of the rail hopper wagons in 1983.
4. Proiect Design and Organization
Design
4.1       The project objectives and concept were clearly spelled out and
understood by all parties to the project. However, there were design flaws
particularly in the type, size, cost, and locations of the storage facilities
recommended by the project. A July 1983 review by the Bank of grain flows
indicated that the original project design, comprising concrete silos in
20,000 ton units, was not optimal for meeting Turkey's grain procurement and
marketing requirements. The Bank's review indicated that smaller and more
numerous storage facilities of varying design and capacity would better meet
the differing requirements of the grain surplus and deficit areas. Aside from
the port silns, the analysis also indicated that steel silos or flat storage
facilities would be more appropriate than concrete silos. These changes which
were incorporated in the re-designed project resulted in substantial cost
savings and permitted most of the construction to take place using techniques
with which both TMO staff and Turkish contractors were fairly familiar. In
retrospect, the designs recommended by the Bank at the time of the original
loan were inappropriate. It should be noted that TMO had not accepted the
Bank's original recommendations, but had been pressurized by Treasury to
accept.
Organization
4.2       The overall responsibility for project implementation rested with
TMO. A project agreement was signed in July 1979 under which TMO's and the
Bank's responsibilities for the project were set out. TCDD was responsible for
the Rail Hopper Wagon Component. T140 created a Project Implementation Unit
(lPIU) consisting of an engineer and 2 architects to be responsible for
technical aspects and other areas of project implementation including silo
location and capacity as well as the day-to-day administration of project
activities. Their role was however undermined by their relative inexperience
in critical areas like silo design and evaluation of bid and tender documents.
They also had no expertise in economic and financial matters. Under the
revised project, the PIU was strengthened by the hiring of an internationally
recruited project engineer and several more local engineers and support staff.
However no economists were recruited.
4.3       No co-ordination mechanisms were put in place for implementing
project activities. TMO was solely responsible for the implementation of the
Project; other Government agencies were only peripherally involved. As a
consequence, and due to constant changes in Directors General of the TMO
before 1983, the locations, capacities and design were changed on several
occasions, to reflect the personal preferences of Directors General. This
adversely affected project implementation in earlier years. To avoid a
continuation of this situation and ensure a smooth implementation of the
project, the Bank proposed and Government agreed to set up a project
Coordination Committee (PCC) consisting of representatives of the Ministry of
Agriculture (the parent Ministry of TMO), the Treasury, and the State Planning
Office. The PCC was established in January 1984 and played a useful role in
project operations particularly in the initial years.



-5-
5.  Project Implementation
General
5.1       The original loan became effective in January 1980 after three
months' delay to enable Government fulfill all the conditions for loan
effectiveness. The project got off to a difficult start from the very
beginning. TW) did not have prior experience in executing Bank-funded projects
and was therefore not familiar with the implementation regulations, checks and
balances which are associated with such projects. To compound the problem, THO
had not been convinced of the design of the project and was therefore not
committed to the project ideas. Therefore, although the loan became effective
in January 1980, the consultant engineers were not appointed till June 1981
because of prolonged selection and negotiating procedures. Soon after,
disagreements ensued between TMO and the consulting engineers over financial
and technical matters and working relations between the two deteriorated.
Further delays were caused by TMO's indecision concerning silo location and
capacities which it kept on changing. Therefore as of mid-1983, only 18 months
before the original project completion date, no construction work had started;
and neither the project design nor the detailed drawings were completed.
Tender documents were only partly prepared and required substantial revisions.
5.2       The implementation of the non-silo components did not proceed much
better. Completion of the construction of rail hopper wagons by TCDD was
delayed by 18 months. No programs had been made by TMO in arranging the
training of their technical staff as required under the project. The
Agricultural Land Use and Price Support/Subsidy Study was no longer necessary
as a similar exercise was being carried out by a UNDP funded project.
5.3       Because of the above implementation bottlenecks and delays, only
US$ 4.3 million or 5% of the total loan had been disbursed by June 1984, 6
months before the project was scheduled to close. The project as it stood was
no longer economic because of the substantial cost over-runs anticipated. The
Bank and TMO had therefore earlier agreed to re-formulate and re-appraise the
project. The following discussion focusses on the implementation of the
revised project which took place from September 1985 to December 1989.
9onstruction of Storage Facilities
5.4       By September 1985, an internationallv recruited Project Engineer and
two consulting engineering firms had been hired for the design and supervision
of the construction program and were effectively doing their work by March
1986. However, there were slight delays in finalizing tender documents and
awarding contracts. The contracts were not signed till January 1987, six
months behind appraisal target. Once the contracts had been awarded, there
were further delays of 1 to 3 months before construction work started. These
delays were caused by the longer time needed by contractors to mobilize
equipment, engage sub-contractors and present detailed designs acceptable to
the consultants and TMO. However the above problems were quickly sorted out
and by October 1987 construction work ;had s-arted at most sites.
5.5       The above delays gave THO and the contractors very tight time
schedules within which to complete construction works before the project came
to an end. This was particularly so in the case of Port Silos which required
a construction period of 36 months. The time constraints were aggravated by
logistical problems because the storage facilities were to be constructed on



-6-
58 sites dispersed in many parts of the country. However, because of rigorous
supervision by the PIU and the harmonious working relationships between PIU,
the consulting engineers and the contractors, construction work progressed
well, inspite of the above handicaps. The inland storage facilities were
completed ahead of schedule and three port silos were completed in time. The
fourth port silo, at Izmir, was completed six months late because the facility
was sited on newly reclaimed land which resulted in construction delays at
fotndation stage.
5.6       All the facilities constructed are of a high quality and compare
very well with the best internationally.
Imqvem     in TMO's sDerions
5.7       THO made impressive progress with the introduction of advanced data
processing and communication systems using the mainframe computer provided
under the project. Information on purchase, sales, inventory control, stock
analysis, grain movement and market prices has been computerized and on-line
facilities are available at most depots throughout the country.
5.8       An  inter-departmental  and  inter-regional  Operational  Planning
Committee (OPC) stipulated in the Loan Agreement was set up within TMO for the
development and application of policies and procedures for the suitable co-
ordination of grain sales, purchases and stock transfers. However its impact
on the internal decision-making process was minimal because it met
infrequently.
5.9      'The training program for silo managers envisaged in the SAR was only
partially carried out. TMO had difficulties to find enough silo managers with
enough command of foreign languages to be able to follow courses overseas as
stipulated in the SAR. In the end only 5 placements were made at Kansas State
University for a short course in silo operations. It was later decided to
bring a Belgian firm of consultants to Ankara where they gave a seminar to 13
silo-managers. Later, another 14 managers went on a study tour to Germany,
Holland and France where they got familiarization with silo operations in
those countries. Perhaps the most significant, albeit incidental, training was
in the PIU, where a group of relatively young engineers, through implementing
this project got first-hand insight and experience in silo design and
construction,
5.10      To ensure adequate income and enable TMO to be financially viable
by the end of 1988, under the Loan Agreement, the Government undertook to
provide TNO with ainual subsidies through 1988 sufficient to cover the
difference between TMO's total operating expenses and its total revenue; and
to provide THO with equity and/or long term loans, such that the sum of TMO's
equity and long term loans would not be less than TMO's average annual fixed
assets including 1 million tons of grain. The first undertaking was not
fulfilled in any of the project implementation years. Government contributed
a total of the TL 47.4 billion to TMO's equity in 1985 and 1986. The second
undertaking was therefore technically fulfilled in 1985 and 1986, but because
the first was unfulfilled, the ratio implied (Equity plus Long Term
Loans/Fixed Assets) declined in these years, thus permitting a loss making
situation, and unfulfillment, to occur. From 1987 onwards TMO's financial
position deteriorated.



-7-
Eolicy Reforms
5.11      At re-appraisal, the principal cause of TMO's financial losses was
the producer prices paid under the Government's grain floor price scheme which
gave farmers artificially high prices without Government adequately
reimbursing TMO for losses incurred in implementing this scheme. In order to
alleviate this problem, the amended Loan Agreement provided for TMO t%. include
a seasonal element in its purchase and selling prices. Seasonal purchase
prices and sales prices were to induce greater storage of grain by dealers,
millers and farmers, thereby reducing TMO's storage volumes and costs, while
seasonal selling prices were intended to permit TMO to recover actual storage
costs. Variation of purchase prices did not start till mid-1989 when TMO was
allowed weekly price variations of up to TL 2 per kilo of wheat. Although a
positive development, putting a ceiling to the amount of increment by which
TMO could vary its prices meant that such increases would not necessarily
reflect the financial and economic realities of the time. A seasonal element
has been included in TMO's selling prices since mid-1986, but this fails to
reflect the high financial cost of holding stocks in Turkey. As a result, all
segments of the grain industry, i.e. farmers, consumers, millers and dealers,
have continued to rely on TMO to store grain for their future requirements
with a resultant cost to TM0.
5.12      Part of TMO's mandate is to maintain a reserve stock of grain to
cou-ateract any inter-year or intra-year fluctuations in purchases and sales.
The re-appraisal mission calculated that 4.5 months of reserve stocks would
be reasonable. However, TMO was holding far in excess of this and thus
incurring substantial storage and financing costs which lay extra burden on
an already weak financial position. It was therefore recommended and agreed
that TMO, from December 1984 onwards, keep stocks not exceeding the 4.5 months
reserve stock requirements (estimated at 2.5 million tons). The excess would
be sold off to raise badly needed financial resources. Although TMO issued the
relevant instructions to all Regional Directorates, there was little
compliance because of difficult export markets, over-production in good years
and lack of reliable crop forecast figures to reasonably plan market and
distribution strategies in advance. As a result, with the exception of 1985
when sales reduced stock levels to 1.88 million tons and in 1989 when a
drought and poor harvest reduced the stocks to about 0.7 million tons,
excessive stocks ranging between 1 to 2.5 million tons were held during the
other years to 1990.
6. Project Results and Impact
Incremental Storage Facilities
6.1       Additional storage facilities were constructed with project funds
on 57 sites (SAR estimate 58 sites) for a total capacity of 745,000 tons (SAR
estimate 755,000). Of these, 130,000 tons are port silos and the remainder
615,000 tons are in-land storage silos. The new facilities were sited with the
aim of optimizing location, capacity of utilization. They will therefore help
THO towards its goal of rationalized and more efficient storage and marketing.



- 8-
Institutional Strengthening of TMO
6.2       The project contributed to strengthening TMO's organization and
management through upgrading the data processing system thus facilitating the
collection, analysis and dissemination of key management data. With somewhat
less suctess, the project initiated moves towards integrated planning between
Head Office and the depots. The program for training silo managers fell short
of expectations but about 26 persons benefitted from an inhouse training
seminar in Turkey and a study tour to Western Europe.
6,3       The financial autonomy of TMO envisaged in the project to be
atta-ied by 1988 did not materialize. The hoped for equity injections from
Gover;iment were inadequate and the Government did not fulfill its pledge to
re-imburse TMO for financial costs incurred in implementing the Government's
price support policy. Both TMO's capital and liquidity positions therefore
deteriorated during the period of the project.
Policy Reforms
6.4       The project's objective to enable TMO to reduce the maximum level
of grain reserve to about 4.5 months equivalent and thus improve both the
financial position of TMO and save the economy substantial amounts of money
spent on storing surplus stocks did not materialize. Due to marketing
constraints and bumper crops in several years, TMO held excess grain stocks
during most of the project period.
6.5       Government took steps to implement policies that would eventually
liberalize the marketing of grain. Since the end of 1984, TMO was allowed to
seasonally vary the selling price of grain and since mid-1989 it was allowed
to vary the purchase price as well. However, the range of variations are
controlled by Government and therefore do not in most instances reflect the
realities and sentiment of the market. Nevertheless, a positive beginning has
been made for the future complete liberalization of grain marketing in Turkey.
Economic Rate of Return
6.6       The project will have several quantifiable benefits:
(i)       reduction in losses of grain which would otherwise be
stored in open storages;
(ii)      reduction in storage operating costs because of improved
facilities and reduced transport distances;
(iii)     a quality-related price premium because of the better
state of the grain stored in the project silos.
6.7       Associated costs are the investment and replacement costs of the
facilities as well as the operating and transport costs.
6.8       Based on turnovers of 2 and 6 for inland and port storage facilities
respectively when the facilities are fully operational and an analysis over
a 50 year period, the economic rates of return (ERR) have been estimated as
19% for inland storage; 12% for port silos; and 16% for the whole project (See
Part III itnnex 1). These compare fairly well with 17%, 16% and 16%
respectively calculated at reappraisal. The main reason why the actual ERR for



-9-_
the Port Silos is lower than that of the SAR is because at appraisal a
turnover of 8 was anticipated. In retrospect, this was rather optimistic.
7. Sustainability
7.1       The storage facilities constructed by the project will last an
average of about 50 years, if in the meantime, grain storage technology does
not radically change to render the facilities technologically obsolete. This
however is unlikely; given proper maintenance the facilities should be able
to last their expected useful lives. However, efforts will be needed to make
them financially viable by increasing their grain handling turnovers to at
least 2 times a year for the inland storage facilities and 6 times for the
port silos.
7.2       During the project, considerable achievements have been made in
improving the organization and operational procedures of TMO. To further
improve its efficiency, the institutional reforms initiated by the project
will need to be continued. In particular, the training of silo staff will need
to be re-doubled to give them a wider understanding of aspects relating to
grain preservation, economics, finance and management.
7.3       The structural  and policy reforms  initiated by the project,
particularly those which have a direct bearing on TMO's operational efficiency
need to be continued. TMO's financial structure is currently weak and efforts
should continue to improve it through increased equity injections and grain
marketing price structures which do not leave TMO bearing the burden of
Government price support policies. Policies should be followed that encourage
farmers, millers and others to take an increased share of the grain storage
function, rhereby easing the heavy storage costs currently borne by TMO.
8. Bank Performance
8.1       The decision by the Bank to support the project was appropriate and
well-timed to complement Government's strategy for food security and to assure
producers get attractive and stable prices for their crops. The original SAR
focussed adequately on the problems facing the grain-marketing sub-sector at
the time. However, the Bank's recommendation of uniform design/capacity silos
was wrong as it was not suited to meet different needs of production and
consumption areas. They were therefore not suitable for TMO's grain marketing
operations and the latter accepted them reluctantly which led to stalling of
project implementation in the early years.
8.2       Bank's decision to re-design the project in 1983 and exceptionally
extend it for a further 5 years is commendable and was courageous. It
reflected two things: (i) that the original design of the project was flawed
and had to be modified if the project was to be rescued; and (ii) at the time,
Turkey had embarked on a substantial macro-economic reform program to which
the reformulated project would contribute and complement.
8.3       As shown in Table 8, nineteen supervision missions visilted Turkey
during project life, to monitor implementation progress. Their ihput was found
useful by TMO and contributed substantially to the successful implementation
of the project by high- lighting operational weakness and suggesting possible
remedies. However, this being basically a construction project, there should
have been more use of engineers in the supervision missions.



- 10 -
8.4       The Bank has learnt three major lessons from this project:
(iM       before embarking on such a complex and widely dispersed
project, the Bank should make sure that technical and
managerial capabilities exisit in the implementing
agency. When they do not exisit, it may be advisable to
train them or arrange for technical assistance up-front
to smoothen out initial teething problems relating to
specific areas such as bids, tenders, contracts and
project management;
(ii)      the Bank and the implementing agency should agree as
early as possible on the site/location and design of the
physical facilities to be constructed by the project.
Lack of consensus inevitably leads to constant design and
location changes which are irritating to both parties,
costly and delay project implementation;
(iii)     when  project  implementation  is  stalled  because  of
fundamental conceptual and design flaws, it is beneficial
to have the project restructured rather than continuing
to "soldier on".
9. Borrower Performance
9.1       There were lengthy delays before the original project started partly
because, this being their first Bank project, TMO were not conversant with
Bank operating procedures. The delay could also be attributed to TMO's lack
of commitment to the design of the original project. Constant changes of
General Directors of TMO before 1983 also adversely affected project
implementation. TMO's performance on the project improved markedly during and
after the project was reformulated in 1984 because:
(i)       a new and more dynamic General Director took over the
management of TMO; and
(ii)      TMO were fully involved in reformulating the project and
were therefore committed to the project ideas.
Young and competent engineers were recruited in the PIU and they did a very
commendable work in supervising and monitoring project implementation. Their
work would, however, have benefitted substantially if they had included one
or two economist/financial analysts and a grain preservation expert in their
team.
9.2       As shown in Table 7, the Borrower only partially complied with the
covenants, set out in the Loan and Project Agreements.
9.3       Two major lessons have been learnt by TMO from implementing this
project:
(i)       producer marketing price reforms cannot be implemented in
isolation but must be part of a wider agricultural reform
process. Price reforms should take into account the
realities of the production patterns otherwise they will
send wrong signals to the producers;



- 11 -
(ii)      to plan ahead and efficiently carry out the grain storage
and marketing functions, it is necessary to have reliable
crop forecast data. This would help the organization
prepare adequate storage facilities before the produce
arrives, avoid the traps of importing grain when it
should not and holding excessive or inadequate reserve
stocks.
10. Project RelationshiRs
10.1      The relationships between the Bank and the borrower were agreeable
with both sides willing to accommodate the other's wishes for changes in the
project when these became necessary. The close co-operation between the Bank
and THO during project re-formulation was exemplary and resulted in a product
agreeable to both parties, thus facilitating the implementation of the
project. The relationships between TMO, the consulting engineers (under the
revised project) and the contractors were generally smooth.
11. Studies and Consulting Services
Studies
11.1      A study of Turkey's Land-use and Price/Subsidy programs which was
stipulated in the original project was abandoned because UNDP was funding a
similar study. No studies were incorporated in the revised project.
Consulting Services
11.2      No substantial input was received from the consulting engineers who
were engaged under the original project. They were recruited late and had a
difficult working relationship with TMO and their services were terminated in
1983, two years after their appointment.
11.3      The Project Engineer and two consulting engineering firms recruited
under the revised project were of a high quality and contributed a lot to the
success of the construction program. The Project Engineer stayed in the
country for less than 2 years but made a useful contribution in the
preparatory stage of project implementation and in developing training
proposals. The consulting engineers' tender documents, technical designs and
detailed drawings were of a high quality and their supervision work was found
extremely useful.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1      The original and amended Loan Agreements were well-understood by all
parties concerned. The amended Agreement took into account the revised project
proposals and re-allocated Loan proceeds accordingly. The revised SAR, was of
a high quality particularly its location/capacity analysis which optimized and
rationalized the choices of sites and sizes of the storage facilities proposed
by the project. The SAR was very use'Zul in monitoring and evaluating project
progress.
12.2      At THO, systems were put in place to document and monitor project
data at all stages both in physical and financial terms.



- 12 -
PART I;: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Although in general the implementation of the entire project has
been very satisfactory and fruitful from the Borrower's point of view,
considering as of being the first experience the collaboration with the Bank,
to improve certain aspects throughout the realization phase, the major
difficulties and short-comings encountered (especially concerning co-operation
and communication) are being briefly given in the following:
(a)   Various difficulties in identifying and getting into contact
with the responsible executive Bank officer in order to
finalize and/or to take certain decisions, approvals and/or
comments whenever it becomes necessary and unavoidable;
(b)    The Bank should ensure  that  it has  adequate  technical
capabilities to carry out Project supervision activities in
its's Organization and try to establish a particular mission
for this purpose (not changing with each and every mission
recruited for field supervision);
(c)    Try to avoid to impose certain technical restrictions and
limits (such as to impose certain simultaneous functions
and/or functional design criteria) which would yield to end
up with facilities having relatively inferior operational
characteristics while they could be easily improved with a
broader technical perspective at the commencement; and
(d)    Certain delays in payment procedures should be minimized.
Source: Turkish Grain Board (TMO)



- 13 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1.   Related Bank Loans and Credits
There were no related Bank Loans or Credits to the sub-sector.



- 14 -
Table 2.   Project Timetable
Activity             Date Planned      Revised Date      Actual Datel
- Identification    November 1976              -         November 1976
- Post-                                        -         December 1977
Identification
- Preparation                                  -         May 1978
- Appraisal                                    -         October 1978
- Negotiations                                 -         June 1979
- Board Approval                               -         June 1979
- Loan Signature                               -         July 1979
- Loan               October 1979      November 1979    January 1980
Effectiveness
- Loan Completion   December 1984    December 1989    December 1989
- Loan Closing       June 1985         June 1990         June 1990
Comment
Following unsatisfactory implementation of the project in the early
years, it was re-designed and re-appraised in October 1983, post re-
appraised in April 1984 and re-negotiated in January 1985. An amended
agreement was signed at the end of March 1985 in which US$ 6 million of
the original loan was cancelled. The revised loan was supposed to be
effective in June 1985 but this was delayed to the end of September 1985
to allow the resolving of issues relating to on-lending interest-rates
and foreign exchange risks relating to the loan.



- 15 -
Table 3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements
Disbursements
(US$ Million)
SAR Estimate
Original               Revised                Actual
1980            3.00                                             0
1981           26.00                                            .32
1982           57.00                                           3.29
1983           78.00                                          4.12
1984           85.00                                          4.32
1985                                     4.4                  4.69
1986                                    16.2                  5.87
1987                                    32.3                 21.22
1988                                    50.7                 46.03
1989                                    64.0                 68.84
1990                                    70.7                 79.00
1991                                                         79.00



- 16 -
Table 4.   Project Implementation
No specific project implementation indicators were set out at appraisal
and re-appraisal except for the time-table for the design and
construction of the physical storage facilities. The implementation of
the project as originally appraised in 1979 was beset by an 18 month
delay to select engineering consultants; a constant change of silo
locations which necessitated revision of the designs; and disputes
between TMO and the consultants over professional fees. As a result no
construction work had started on any of the storage facilities by the
end of 1983 (4 years into project implementation and 1 year before
project completion). The project was therefore re-designed in 1984 and
besides several months delay in awarding tenders to consultants, the
design and construction activities were generally performed according to
schedule and the project was completed on time.



Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
(Page 1)
A. Project Costs
(US S M)
Componernt                                         Appraisal Estimate t                Reised Estimate 2/                          Acual
local      F                      LDcal       F*Loca                                Forex
ColCstsIT   CoesICsjTaaocts diCosts CostsIToS
Construction of Inland Storage Facilifies       33.1        51.6        84.7       15.1       17.1         32.2         33.3         22.6        55.
Construction of Port Silos                       2.6        4.7         7.3        10.7       23.2         33.9
Improvements to Existing Port Silos              01         0.4         0.5         0.1        0.3          0.4 A0J 25.3                          55.6
Design and Engineering Services                  2.8        3.7         6.5         -          6.2          6.2          -           10.0         10.0
Acquisition of Rail Hopper Wagons                18.1       2.5         20.6        -           -           -            -            2.6         2.6
Improvements to TMO Organization 3/              0.2        0.3         0.5         0.1        0.7          0.8          -            0.5         0.5
Study 4/                                          -         02          0.2         -           -           -            -            -           -
Price and Physical Contingencies                64.2        21.6        85.8        8.4       14.5         22.9        N/A          N/A          N/A
Sub-Total                                     121.1       85.0       206.1       34.4       62.0         96.4         63.6         61.0        124.6
Acclued Interest and Other Charges 5'             -          -                       - -       9.2          9.2          -            7.8         7.8
Grand Total                                   121.1       85.0       206.1       34.4       71.2        105.6         63.6         68.8        132.4
/ Per SAR o My 1979.
2/  PMr SAR d Novabr 104 Pm WNW ta does not agr wNth Mhmen   La agreemenl scheule I becase WB alo flaced  t of lhoc0 cu15ency costs for cdl wodgL
3/  ewe  an iistuof doft pmocestag 9qulmen and tralnmg of sil sarr
4/  The sudy was abndone becA  UNDP was canylg out a soWer stdy.
51  USS 4.9 MUo a6cnd eet an US$ 4.3 muon loan  ou  dfburse ftor Pe Hoppe Wrwpans  Ulta  ftees before reappS of the poleO



Table 5. Project Costs and Financtng                                         (Page 2)
B. Projct Financing (US S 000)
Sotxoe                      ~                   Planned1'       Revised 21       Actual 31                      Comrnrne
A. IBRD
1. Clvi works and Mech. Equipment                 62,000          54,020           58,029
2. Equipment for Pon Silos                           400
a Brake Equipment, Rail Wagons, etc                2,700           2,617            2,617
4. (a) Training                                      300            485              167
(b) Consutant Services (Parl C of project)         -              360              339
(c) Consuwtans Services (Pan A of Project)                      10,300           10,027
5. (a) Consulant's Services                        4,200
(b) Interest & Other Charges Accrued               -             9,200            7.821
6. UnaNocated                                      15,400          2,018             -_cx
Sub-Tol                                          85,000         79.000            79,000 5/
B. IMO                                            121,100         26,600           53,400 6/
Total                                           206,100        105,600           132,400
V  Per Loan Agrmet of July 1979.
2/ Per Loan   eemt of March 1965.
3/ Per WS Loan DIxn_it SitEerm   Report LOA 1060 of 7 March 1991.
4/ For mrvey, dein m   execxuion of prolect works
5/ Dos oCt t*y wigh actual forex costs   Tabe 5 beas WB also funded pant of local currency costs for civil works
s/ Pr TMO reords



Table 6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal Estimate             Re-Appraisal Estimate    |       PCR Estimate/Actual
lncrementa Storage Capacity (MT 000)                       860                             755                              745
National Grain Storage Savings (I'L billion)                -                               18                              N/A
B. Economic Impact
Econonic Rate of Retum (ERR)                               %                                %                                %
FlatStorage            .                                    i8                              17
Steel Silos                                                 19                              17                           }  19
Port Silos                                                  21                              16                              12
Total Project                                             21                              16                              16
C. Studies
The inital appraisal in 1979 provided for a study to evaluate Turkey's agricuttural land use strategy, commodity
price support and subsidy programs. There were considerable delays by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to
recruit consultants for the study. Despite continous pressure from WB the study did not take-off and was
abandoned altogether in 1983 because Govemment indicated it had made arrangemerns for a similar study to be
caried out under a UNDP-furded project.



Table 7. StatuS of Covenants
(Paw 1)
Subjct                                Steats                        Commune
A. Loan Agrement Coveat
1. Sectin 3.04                   Maintenance of a Proet                       Patal comnplianoe.              PCC established, but eer met for
Coordinating Committee (PCC).                                               a long timeo.
2. Secfion 3.05 (ai)             TMOs purcaes and sales to be based on        Partial compliance.             Sales and purchase prices are
seasonal prics.                                                             allod to vary monthly but
variations do not necessarily reflect
market changes.
Seclion 3.05 (a ii)             TMO to be provided wih subsidies to cover   Partial compliance              Subsidies to TMO only covered
differenoe between operating expenses and                                   interest differential on crop finance.
operating revenues up to 1988.
Section 3.05 (a iii)            Annual consultation with Bank on appropriate  Not complied with.            TMO has not submitted any such
measures to eirable TMO to cover its total                                  proposals to the Bank.
operabng costs.                                                               
Section 3.05 (b)                Borrower to submnit to the Bank results of annual   Not complied with.
review aimed at determining TMO's subsidy
requirements for current and next fiscal year.
3. Section 3.06 (a)               Borrower to provide equity contribution and long-   Partial compliance.     Govemment made inadequate
term debt to enable TMO to maintain a ratio of                              equity contributions. TMO is
equity and long-term debt to total permanent assets                        therefore still largely dependent on
of not less than 1:1.                                                       govemment financing and has a
very thin equty base.
Section 3.06 (b)                Before Nov. 30 of each year, Borrower and TMO to Not complied with.         No review has taken place.
review feasibility of meeting requirement in (a)
above.



Table 7. Status of Covenants
(Page 2)
Subject                             Staus        C-on une
8. Project Agreement Covenants
4. Section 201                    TMO to prepare annual financing plan    Partially complied with.     Financial plan sent to Bank in Sept
specifying amounts and sources of funds                              1987, but none since.
to cover expenditure and submit such
plan for Bank review by Jan. 31 of each
year.
5. Section 2.03 (i3               TMO to maintain an Operational Planning Partially complied with.     OPC established, but did not function as
Committee (OPC) under the                                            envisaged as evident from non-
chairmanship of its Assistant Director                               compliance with financial and
General.                                                             operational covenants above.
Section 2.03 T) TMO to prepare and submit its operating Not complied with.
plan for each succeeding year to WB by
May 15.
6. Section 2.06                   TMO to perform a physical inventory  Not complied with.              Too expensive to carry out in           s
check in December and June of each                                   conventional storage facilities.
year.
7. Section 2.07                   TMO to prepare a personnel training  Partially complied with.
, -.ram and submit such program to
Bank for review and approval.



- 22 
Table  8:   Use  of Bank  Resources
A.   Staff  Inputs
(Staffweeks)
-M      FFM    6    flY3I FY82 FY83 FY84 FY8  F8  FY87 FY88 FY89   9 0 FM    ag         TAL
PnFe
AppraI         1.1  40.3  10.9                                                                               52.4
ApPit                     73.1                                                                                73.1
NegoviWoh                  0.5                                                                                 0.5
8SupeutWn                       12.3 10.8  29.5  31.6  65.5  20.3 18.9 24.2  23.6  25.2  17.3  11.7  0.7  291.9
oUw             1.   0.3  9.8                                       0.1  0.8                                  12.0
TOW            21  40.6  94.4  1Z3 10.8  29.5  31.6  65.5  20.3 19.0 25.0  23.6  25.2  17.3  11.7  0.7  429.9



Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
B. Missions
Stage of Project Cydce    Sentby          Month/Year      No. of Persons     Period in Field    Specialisation    Performance Rating Types of Problems
T }   |           l                l      (weeks)        Represented 1/          2Y                 3/
Idenrifcaon               FAO/CP             11/76              3                  3               E, S. C               -
Post4denilifction         FAO/CP             12/77               1                 2                 E                   -                 -
Prepaon                   FAO/CP              5/78              4                  4              E, S, F,G             -                  -
Appraisal                   WB               10/78               5                 -
Supervs    1                WB                9/79               1                 1                 A               N/A 4/
Supevision 2                WB                3/80               2                0.2               & S                  1
SupeWrvison 3               WB               12/80               1                0.5                A                 N/A                N/A
Supervision 4               WB                3/81               2                 1                A, C                2                  0
Supervision 5               WB               10/81               2                 1                A, H                2                  M
Superision 6                WB                5/82               2                 1                F, S                2                  T
Supervision 7               WB               11/62               3                 3                N/A                 2                  T
Supervision 8               WB                4/83               3                1.5               N/A                 3               T. M, F
ReAppraisal                 WB               10/83              4                  3                N/A                  -                 -
Supervision 9               WB                4/84               4                1.5             E, B. F. S            3               T. M, F
Supervision 10              WB               9/85                1                 1                 E                                     -
Supervision 11              WB                3/86               1                 1                  E                  -                 -
Supervision 12              WB                5/86               1                 3               E. F, S               -                 -            a
Supervisionl 13             WB                8/86              2                  1                B, S                 -
Supevision 14               WB               11/87               2                1.5               E, S                 -                 -
Supervision 15              WB                2/88              3                N/A               E.F.B                 -                 -
Superision 16               WB                6/88               1                 2                  E                  -                 -
Supevision 17               WB               11/88               1                 2                 E                   -                 -
Supervision 18              WB                5/89               1                 2                 E                   -                 -
Supervision 19              WB                6/90              3                  2               E. F. S               -                 -
PCR Preparation           FAO/CP             5/91               2                  2                E, S                -                  -
Source:      Project Files.
1/   E- Enombl, S - Slrap E0nseir C - CMptepr Syatema Analvt F * Fnancdal      G   rain MIlng Specilsl; A * AvlcuKalt CedtI Spedalt;    Hof* cultur, B - AOrictUlsL
2/ 1 - MlRn Probb  2 - Moderate Foblerm; 3 - MaWlor 13obIn.
3/   * - Oht; M - Mmnagea T - Techncl: F - RinaL
4/ Iomioi na vauab sWo  BWSupes  Reportnloa changed rom t985 onwards. Compwabe rtling and protem indlcao sae thereo not allai sine then.



PART III
ANNEX 1
TI(Tt                                                                          Tabte  1
TI.mIlio  (191cOntant prices)(ae1
198-1986      9619     968     199    190    199 I      199      193     198    1995    1996    1997    199        99      2000    2001
Turnover ctim,)                                      -        -                          -     3.0     4.0      5.0     6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0     6.0      6.0     8.0      6.0
Capaity t000 two.)                                            -        -                     130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0
Aiusma thruput (000 tams)                                     -                          - 390.0   520.0   630.0   78.0   730.0   73.0   7180.0   730.0   73.0   78.0  710.0
0m~tity tos" savings (000 tons)                                                               20.7    27.6    34.5    81.A    81.      41.4    41.8    41.8    41.8    41.4    41.8
Econeic price                                                                                568.0    68.0   568.0   564.0   564.0   564.0   568.0   564.0   568.0   568.0   568.0
lEcornmic value of grain loss saings                                                       11657.9 15583.9  19429.8 23315.8 23315.8 23315.8  2331S.8 23315.8  23315.8 23315.8 2331S.8
Savings in eperatioV costs                                                                 20896.2  2786.6 34827.0 81792.4 41792.4 IM 4179    .4 41792.4 8 1792.4 41192.4   41792.8 -?Z4
Ouslity-relsted price increase                                                  -2199.6  2932.8  366.01  8399.2  8399.2  8399.2  8399.2  4399.2  83992  4399.2  8599.2
Totat beneilts Port Silos                            .-                         -           38753.7 46338.3 37922.8 69507.3 69507.3 69307.3 69507.3 69507.3 69507.3 69507.3 2.9507.3
Intwd Silos
TujnUver (timews)                                                                              1.5     1.8      2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0
aacty 1000 tam1)                                                                           M       630   615.0   613.0   615.0   615.0   613.0   615.0   615.0   615.0   015.0   613.0
Auml truput (000 tons)                                                                    gal.92.5  1076.3  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  123.0  1230.0  1250.0  1230.0
Ouantiy loss savings c00 ow s tam)                                              .        .    4.2    53.9    61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5
Economic price                                       .        .        .        .        -            564.0   5.    568.0   568.0   56.0   56.0   5".    5"              568O   56.
EC. enm    value of grain liss savinps.                                                    26014.5  30350.3 34616.0  3(686.0 38686.0 3(4616.0 386.16.  3868.0  386816.0  36866.0 38686.0              l
Savings ir.operating costs                                                                 4         9427.  57665.8  65903.4 65903.8  65903.  65903.8  6590.8 6S903.8  65903.8  65903.4 65903.4
saitrr--tated price Increase                       .                                      5202.9  6070.1  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6931.2  6937.2  6937.2 
Total benefits Inlad SilDs                                                                 8       0688.9 98085.6 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 t07526.0 107526.0 107526.0
Total belie Its                                      .                                     115398.0 140423.0 163569.0 17733.0 17733.0 177033.0 17703.0 17703.0 177033.0 177033.0 177033.0
costs
Port Silos
Turnover (times)                                      .       .                                3.0     8.0      5.0     6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0     6.0
Capacity (times . 000 tam)                            .       .                  .           130.    130.    1300   130.    130.    130.    130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0
SAmmi thruput (time- 000 taml)                       .        .        .                     390.0,  520.0   650.0   780.0   730.0   780.    78.0   780.0   780.0   780.0   78.0.0
vrgesoag  sd handifng costs (Iti 000/ton)      .                                        12.9    11.7    11 .4    11 .0    11 .0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0
Averag "tiaort cot  T   OIe).                                 .        .        .19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0
Investment costs                                        18536.0  130178.0 109708.0 36661.0   954.0       .        .       .                .       . 
teplacemnt costs                                     .                                                 7.3    65.1    5.8.9    18.       0.5     7.3    65.1    38.9      MA.      0.5
Staorag and handling costs                           .                                      5011.5  64,.8.   73. 85008580.0  856008300   8580.0  83810.0  6580.0  8580.0
Transpwt costs                                       .                                      710.:0  96810.0, 12350.00 1882,0.00 148120.0  181120.00 14820.00  18520.0  1882.0 18,820.0  1882.01
Total costs Fort Silos                                  14536.0  130178.0  109704.0 36661.0 13375.5  15985 .3 19M7.1  2354.9 23818.4 23800.5  23807.3 23865.1 23854.9  23818.' 23800.5
inland Silto$
TUrnovr Mtis)                                         .                .                       1.0     1.5      2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0
capacity (times,  000 tens)    .                                                             630.    630.    630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   830.0   630.0   630.0
ArWtm thifLPMt 111g- NOtam)                          .                                       630.0,  945.00  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0
Average, storage anti handling coats CIL. 0O0iton)            .                                0.9     0.8      0.8     0.6     0.81    0.81    0.8      0.8      0.8     0.8      0.8
Averag transport costs (IL 0COIton)                   .                                       19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0
Investment Costs                                        18337.0 146617.0  51228.0  9091.0                        .        .       .       .        . 
Replaement costs                                      .                                       58.8   110.0    38.5      6.9    58.8   110.0    38.5      6.9    58.8   110.0    38.5
storage WKI hmanding costs                            .                                       28.8   737.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1
Trumert costs                                                                              1         1910.0  1795.0 23940.0 23980.0 23940.0 23980.0 23980.0 23960.0 23980.0 239(0.0 23980.0
total costs . Inlud Silos                               78337.0  146617.0  51224.0  9091.0  12353.6  18802.1  24698.5 28883.  28918.9 28966.1 2889.5 2888.0 28918.9 28066.1 28,898 .5
Total costs                                          .92873.0 276796.0  160928.0 83752.0 25929.1 38787.4 88667.6 88317.8 88335.2 88366.6 88301.8 48328.1 88369.7 88588.5  482951
Net benetits                                           - 92873.0 -276796.0 -160928.0 -85752.0 89699.8 105676.0 120781.0 128715.0 128700.0 128667.0 128731.0 128705.0 1285663.0 128649.0 128738.0



101481
GRAIN SlOIACE PrtWECT
.. ..................
.conmic Aty7sis * Port aid Intsrd Sitos
TL .itilon (1991 constant price)                                                                    (Page  2)
................................
.............. .................... ......... ............ ............... ...................... ...................... ... ............................... ........ ........... ........ ........... ..... .. . ....................
2002    2003     2004    2005    206    2007    2008    2009           201D     2011    2012    2013    201.    2015    2016    2017    2018
.................................................................... ............................................................. I..............................   _...... ...... ,... .... .... ... .. .... ....................... ............. . ............................-..
laerf fits
Port Sltr
..........
Tiaurnv  (tilms)                                     6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0
Caitw 0Ol0 tom)                                     130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0    130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   I30.0
A,nisl 0hart tOOO tom)                              7600 0   7800   M760.    780.0   730.0   730.0   780.0   710.0   760.0   760.0   710.0   7S0.0   780.0   780.0   780.0   r80.0   780.0
tubntity loss swngsG (000 two)                       41.4    41.4    41.4    41.4    41.4    41.4    41.4    41.4           41.4    41.4    41.4    41.4    41.4    41.4    41.4    '.1.4    41.4
Econo ic price                                      564.0    5.0    54.0   56.0   56.0   564.0   564.0    54.0   56.0   56.0   564.0   564.0   56O.0   564.0   564.0   564.0   564.0
Ec   ic vatue of grain tosst sirng                23315.8  23315.8  2331S.8  23315.8  23315.8  23315.8  23315.8  23315.8  23315.8  23315.8  23315.8  23315.8  23315.8  23315.  23315.8  23315.8  23315.8
Savings in operating costs                        41792.4  41792.4 41792.4  41792.4 41792.'  41192.4 41792.4  41792.4  41792.4  417M.  41792.4  '1792.4  41792.4  *1792.4  '1792.4 41792.' 4*1792.4
Ouatity.relatsd price increase                     5399.2  4599.2  *399.2  4399.2  4399.2  4.399.2  4399.2  4399.2  4599.2  4399.2  4399.2  4399.2  4399.2  4399.2  '399.2  4399.2  4399.2
Total benetits Port Silos                        69507.3  69307.3 69507.3  69507.3  69507.3  69507.3  69507.3  69507.3  69307.3  69307.3  69507.3  69507.3  69507.3  69507.3  69507.3  69507.3  69507.3
Inlaid Silos
....... ....... .
Turnioer (tims)                                      2.0       2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0
C     Cy(it W (0D  tame)                            615.0   615.0   615.0   615.0   615.0   615.0   615.0   615.0   615.0   615.0   615.0   615.0   615.0   615.0   815.0   615.0   613.0
=bel thrgUt (000 tans)                             1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1250.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0
oumitlty loss savnts (000 tons)                      61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5       61.        61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5         61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5
Ecormic price                                       564.0   564.0   56.0   56.0   564.O   564.0   564.    564.0    564.0    S.O   564.0   54.0   564.0   56.O  5364.0                       564.0   36.0
Ecaoroic value of grain toss savin                34686.0  3466.D  3466.0  3468 6. 0 34  3 .0  346.0  34686.0 34686.0  34686.0  34686.0 34686.0 34686.0  34686.0  34686.0  34616.0  34686.0  34686.0
Saving  in oerating costs                         65903.4 65903.4  65903.4  65903.4  65903.4  65903.4 65903.4  65903.4  65903.4  65903.4 65903.4 65903.4  65903.4 65903.4 65903.4  65903.' 65903.4
Oua,ity-relatad price increase                     69? 7.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2
totat btmf its Interd Sitos                      107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0
Total benefits                                   177033.0 177033.0 177033.0 177033.0 177033.0 177033.0 17733.0 177033.0 177033.0 177033.0 177033.0 177033.0 177033.0 177033.0 177033.0 177033.0 177033.0
Costs
Port Silos
..........
turrttvr (tin")                                       6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0
Ca lty (tism  - OilO tais)                          130.0   130.0   130.0    130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0
=a     thruput gti_s- 000 tom)                      780.0   78.0   780.0   780.0   780.0   780.0   78.0   780.0    7800    7.0    7.                  7.0    700    78.0   760.0   780.0   780.0
Avere  stora "    haM ling costs (IL 000/trn)        11.0    11.0    11.0       11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    t1.0    11.0    11.0            11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0
average tIm-sport coats (Tn ODOton)                  19.0    19.0    19.0       19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0        19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19 0           19.0
Inwetosft costs                                                                                                       .        .        .        .       .        .        .
stapolemwnt costs                                     7.3    65.1    54.9    18.4        0.5       7.3    65.1    54.9    18.4        0.5      7.3    65.1    546.9      1.4      0.5      7.3    65.1
Store  and uimling costs                           8805.0  8580.0  8580.0   8580.0  8580.0  8580.0   85e0.0   85e0.0  8380.0   8580.0   8380.0  8580.0   88o0.0   85e0.0   8580.0  6380.0  858o.0
Trntert costs                                     14020.0  14820.0  14820.0  14820.0  14820.0  14820.0  148 O.0  1480.0  14820.0  14820.0  14820.0  1482.0  14820.0  14UO.O  14820.0  14t20.0  14820.0
Total costs Port Silos                            23407.3 23465.1  23454.9 23418.4  234DO.5  23407.3 23465.1  23454.9  23418.'  23400.5  23407.3 23465.1  2345.9  2341a.4  23400.5 23407.3  23463.1
Intcd Silos
............
lawovsr (tim,)                                        2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0
Calt, (tIme - 000 taem)                             630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   650.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   6O30.0
uI*1 uthrupat ctlm- 000 tae).                     I260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0
Average storage and hailing costs CIL 000Itoii)       0.       0.       0.       0.       0.      0.       0.       08       08       08       08       08      08       08       08       08       08
A"rag  trpoWrt cots (ni. 000/tatn                   19.0      1990     19.0    19.0      1.      10       19       109.     19:.    19.0    190 1t9.0           1 9 o   1 .      1 .0    19.0    19- o
Iaplacnt costs                                       6.9    58.8    110.0   s3.5         6.9    58.8   110.0    38.5         6.9    58.8   110.0    38.5        6.9    8a.8   110.0    38.5         6.9
Storer    d 10iq costs                              916.1   916.1   91161   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1
Trusport cots                                     23940.0  23f40.0  23940.0  23940.0  234.0  23940.0  23940.0  23940.0  23940.0  23940.0  23940.0  23940.0  23940.0  23940.0  23940.0 23940.0  23940.0
Totdl costs - InIard Silos                        24t63.0 24914.9  24966.1  24894.5  24863.0  24914.9 24966.1  24894.5  24863.0  24914.9  24966.1  24894.5  24863.0 24914.9  24966.1  24894.5  24863.0
Total costs                                      48270.2  438o.0  48420.9  48313.0  48263.5  46322.1 48431.2  48349.5  48281.4  83S15.3 4873.4  48359.6 48317.8  48333.2  48366.6  48301.8  48328.1
eat bemfits                                      128763.0 128653.0 128612.0 128720.0 128770.0 128711.0 128602.0 12864.0 128752.0 128718.0 128660..0 128674.0 128723.0 128700.0 128667.0 228731.0 128705.0



PART III
ANNEX 1
Table 2
TUtKEY
CLAIM SIBACE FlOJcCT
Economic Aatysis  tntnd Silos
TE dlltion (1991 constant prices)
.......,..(Page.. ..1...
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..................... .............................................................................. ........................................................................................................................................ ...................
1*2        3         4        5       6        7       a        9       tO        11       12       13       14        1S       16       17       Is
.................................. ..........................................................        ...........................................................................................
Turove its   -     is.0"-
lwontvr (tt_sl)                                                                                                                                                                        61 1.  1.8  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0
Capacity (000 totE)               -         -                  -           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~615.   615.0    615.0    615.0    615.0    615.0    61'5.0    615.0 610  1.0    615.  61.0
AOa   rt     : (000 ton) t                                                                          6t922.S5  1076.3   12300 0   1230.0  1230.0  12350.0   1230.0   1230.0   1230.0   1230.0   1230.0   1250.0
oLotity lass savings (000 tonm) lb                          -        .                                46.2   53.9      61 .5    61 .5     61.5     61.5     61.5     61.5      6'1.5    63.3     61.5     61.5
EC ic prtis  iC             t     7                                                                   C564.0  564.0    564.0    364.0   564 0    564 0    564.0   56 .0    564.0   564.0   564.0    56.0
Ec"it value of grain loss svings                                -         -         -            - 26014.5 30350.3  368.0  34686.0  34686.0  34686.0  346t 6.0  34686.0  34686.0  346e6.0  34656.0  34666.0
Savings in operatiru costs                                  .        .         .                  49427.6 57665.4  65903.4  65903.4  65903.4  65903.4  65903.4  65903.4  65903.4  65903.4  65903.4  65903.4
Oality-rtetatd FpiCe increase Id                            -        -         *        -           5202.9  6070.1   6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2   6937.2
Total buwits                                                -                           -          0644.9 94085.6 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0
Costs
Tuwrvar (times)                                             -        -                  -               .0     2.3      2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0
Capacity tOO0 tans)                                         -        -                      -       630.0  630.0    630.0    630.0    630.0   630.0   630.0    630.0   630.0   630.0               630.0    630.0
ajawal taniput (000 tansl)                                           *         *        *           630.0  945.0   1260.0   1260.0  1260.0   1260. 0   1260.0   1260.0   1260.0    600    260.0    260.0
Avura   storagen wd hadling costs (IL 000/tan) e                     -         *        *              0.9     0.8      0.8      0.       0.8      0.8      0.8      0.8       0.8      0.8      0.8      0.8
averae transprt costs (It 000/ton) It                                                                 1 -  -    9.0    19.0  19.0  19.0   19.0     19.0     19.0      19.0     19.0    19.0      19.0      19.0
IneStenit casts  S                                            7337.0  7 o61t.0  51224.C  9091.0                  .                                             .        .
beplcm  nt costs                                                                                 -    58.8   110.0    3.5       6.9      58.8    110.0     35.5      6.9      58.8   120.0      38.5      6.9
Store  and handling costs                                                                        -  524.8   737.1    916.1    916.1    916.1    916.1   916.1    916.1    916.1   916.1   916.1    916.1
Irwnpert costs                                              -                       -            - 11970.0 17955.0  23940.0  23940.0  23940.0  23940.0  23940.0  23940.0  23940.0  23940.0  23940.0  23940.0
Total costs                                                 - 7t337.0  146617.0  51224.0  9091.0 12553.6 18802.1  21894.5  24863.0  24914.9  24966.1  24894.5  24863.0  24914.9  24966.1  24894.5  24863.0
net emufits                                                 - 7337.0 -146617.0 -1224.0 -9091.0 68091.3 75283.5  82631.9  82663.6  82611.6  82560.4  02631.9  82663.6  82611.6  62560.4  U631.9  82663.6



.......................
4263  13004  98* 00(42T s  sh
........... .......... ..................e
10.,  81,a233 t9933 tnO #Irolwd  210
aUS. 399448342p4o                                                                                                       ( Page   3 )
.................................. ...................................... ...............................................................................................................................................
2019    2020    202)    2022    2023    2024    2025    ZOZt    20U1    2028    2029    2010    2033            2G3Y    2033    2034
.... .........................................................................................................................1!.........!.......
hrt 52208
tlsler 111_71                      1SO O  S §  ISO O~~~~~~~~~U  I  G O,0  IS O. "ON             I M'  JU IN °o 110° °N ° G         oGI 
Fty     t_0: tomt                          no O    ISS0      so7 0       a7eo 0    no.0  .       6.e     6.0 a.0a0                 6o .0 Zo 0.0      6. 0     6.0      .       6.0
20133401 (33018                                  4.       8.0o    6.0  6711.01   130.8M.                        0     0.1         
l40t11   s(011 *   (o80 301,)                 42.4    41.4*        41.4    42.4    41.4    41.4    421.4    4.4    421.     41.4    43.4    42.4          41.    2      41 01.4    41.4
10.11 prlc.                                        30.    340       14.04.0   304.8           304.    364.0    64.    164.64. 4.0A    34.0         6.0    34.0   564.0   344.0   364.0
Ecin0e Vat.'* of wain lns t   .ng.              2z33.   325 o22123.8  23313.  23S7.  231.8  2321.8  23155.  2131.  23e1SS.  2311S.1t 21313.8 25333.8  21133.8  233 i.s 2O333.8
S"ats ms "o"ltuso cos a422.4  41792.4  42292.4  43107.4  42292. 4  42  19?2   m2192.4 4192.4   192.44792.4 41                            192.9  4192.41 192.   4  43292.4  43192.4  42792.4
"In,statued p91. i         .                      4199.2  4199.2  4199.3  4390.2  4399.2  4399.2  4190.2  439.2  4399.2   399.2  .*99.2   430.2  4399.2  499 2  43.2  4390.2
10t9a benfrtits prt s10                          600.3 65033.3  69301.3 69301.3  629501.3  69$07.3 69M0.3 69s01.3 69307.3 69307.3  695D01.  6950? 36907.3 69506.3 69w07.s 49307.3
3.a.o,ov 43,so                         2~~~~~~~         ~~~~.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.20  2.0   2.0      2.0      7.0     2.0      2.0        0      2.0     2 0      20 a      .0     812<6
L 1i2  (90 'st  n71.0   623.8   833.0 8tl.0   83S.0   61.0   623.0   61.    0t                                                                     1.0 633.0   623.0 823.3    13 0   833.0   3.3 0   tlS.O &5.0   611.1
02,a83l t244t (088 2                              1250.0  1250.   3230.8  3250.8  1250.0  I230.0  1230.0   2S3.0  I220.D  3230.0  220.0  1230.0  223.0  2230.0  3200.0  2210.0
So 24t2 lns twin "000 c      sca                    01.S    tl. 61 .3I    631  621.     2.61   6.       6l.S    421.     61.3    62.S    61.5    61.5    62.S    6123        612.     612.
£t011  pric3e.                                               040 30.    364.0         304.0 304.    3644.   364.    364.0   364.0   30.4.   36.3   504.0   564.0   384.    364.0                                 54 433  *3~4   2
i183t .4 ,M1 of Wort 1n1v ssao    S      5           6     AS"      3o°2S.ngU O   s 6o.t°4s5mSS.O 534806.8  348.  3 44.  3 .0  34080.0 340.0  3406.0  3646 o 486.0  oG604.003606.0  1408O 06:t.0
Swingsin Q3 t30v  e48r2803403.                             4  63.  o304 5903.4 46503.46903.4  6S903.4  65903.4 65905.4  630.  65903.4  65903.4  85903.4  63593.4  65901.4 65903.4
btiity-te 4:ou pric. in-rcr                       8937.2  6937.2  6937.2   9531.2  6937.2  6951.2  6937.2  6937.2  6917.2  4s93.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937.2  69317.2  6911.2  6937.2                                   APA3sal    SW.0"         F 3          40.
Total 40.028 mOO 3420,                          172036.0 107526.0 010726.0 307126.0 20$26.0 107126.0 107326.0 301326.0 301726.0 2075Z6.0 107308.0 107326.0 301526.0 301026.0 101526.0 201326.0         .......        ..... c... .--    --.
total 43f0s                                     13733.0 217033.8 213.0 178 33.0 I21033.0 31033.0 117033.0 2I033.2 311032.0 197033.0 177033.0 171033.0 171033.0 177031.0 217013.0 177021.0      '92               803472.00  532.219.00          22.04      2
C92               542.229000  495.47200        z2.020
..... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............  .......
Port 13208                                                                                                                                       8330 p1.5000 o*2,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *1 ICC 312 * 331.222~~~~~~xl l.cl  ol.    OC12    IS.3
terT Ste7                                                                                                                                        Imernl j¢ oteR¢t;°cC IZ22. 55 2s2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~013112 tte6 333...33. 6
!!r!.!!!!!                                                                                                                                       llr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i Rate~~~~~~~~0493  Oqi.o  nof ftt-    16   3.3
Massw, £0111                                         6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0     8.0      6.0      0.0     6.0      6.0
Capacity (t0n   -tO M o                            2SD.D30  11.0   330.0   I10.0   230.0   330.0   I3D.0   130.0   113.0   330.0   230.0   310.0   230.0   110.0   330.0   30.0
8183  48r1,"A (tim- ODD toS2                       200.0   788.0   188.0   180.0   180          80       00    10.0    1.0   1800O   780.0  170.0   190.0   It0.0   700.0  7I0.0
!=0             rd tr O1t .8 ost. 41L 888      11.0 .        31.8    13.8     2       11.0              22.00   122 o   9 i.0    23.0    92.0 1 2.0    31.0    32.0    23.0    21.0    33.0
8019  2 8o  --82  CIL    "o8Jn)             29.8    39.0    39.8    39.0    19.0    29.0    29.0    39.0    29.0    39.0    29.0    29.0    29.0    39.0    30.0    20.0
199l3e8t3    costs                                  34.9    20.4      o.1      1.i    6S1. 3i.9    28.4    o0.            7.3   46.3    34.0    26.4         0.3      1.3 '32         3 . i
50.08. N WANO jwog 402 ..8s100.0  83O.                             480.0 830.8 830.0  8380.0  8380.0  03308.0  8520.0  830.0  83106.0  8380.0   5030.0  05a0.0  830a.0 0385.0  9380.0
tf1wOt  328                                      149.0  14821.0  14820.0  34820.0  41120.0 134020.0   U240.0  24820.0  34820.0  24830.0  24020.0  14520.0  148 20.0  1420   34820.0 34820.0
ltol osts..    Ps   r silo                       23436.9  23421.4  2340.S 23401.3  22465.2  23454.9 23418.4  2349D.S 23407.3 2346S. 123454.9 23428.4  210.S  23401.3  23465.2  23453.9
tvn9.0,01 (3301332                                  .20      2.0      2.0      7.0     Z.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      z.0      2.0     2.0      Z 0      2.0      2.0     2.0      Z.0
C=g1.td7t 3        .  4so                          630.0   030.0   630.8   620.0   030.0   IW.          020.8   610.0   610.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   03.    430.0   610.0   I6S 0
243803142 403 .x                                      -        .        .        .       .        .        .       .        .        .       .                 .
8338. 38buOall71 cos.                             921.2   930.3   S2. 5       3.    926. 9t      .  9'°°  36.2   920.2   936.0   934.302s6.2S   926.2   926.2   930.2°   936.2   926.2
"Vr         A       e- ".O3-                     239 0.0  2394O.0 2294.0  23949.0  23940.0  23940.0  23940.0 23940.0 23960.0  32940.0  21960.0 2920.0  Z29t0.0  23960.0 23940.0 23040.0
18t4 (082* I2nls 1lls                            249349  2t946.1  2U89.5  2463.0  2493.9  24960.2  3e49.5  2486.0  24924.9  24946.  34894.5  24843.0  3492.9  2490e.2  34394.5 24061.0
toa l1 en8                                      48049.7  43314.5  4829.0  40.2 7    M4 .O  404.9  4835.0  43.5   822.1 3.4431.2  48349.5 4202.4  48323.3  40353.4  48339.6 48331.8
8t t 404                                        128803.0 12809.0  8138.0  27e63.0 32NSS3.0 12282.0 128720.0 2310M.0 122711.0 128602.0 IN264.C 121752.0 22781.0 120.0 128674.0 328715.0
........................................................................................................................................I........................................................
J.    F. 1991 Miss3



tURKEY
GRAIN SICE  OJECT
Ec,tmic AUlalpsis  ,n,,id os
Ft mIttitn (t99t cwtmnt prices)                                                           (Pae  2)
19      20      21      22      23       21      25      26      .27     28      29       3D      31      32      33       34
.........................a.........................  ...........  ..............  ......................................................................t..  ..... . . . . . . . . . . .   . ......................... 
turrver (times) A                                   2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0
C    ty (t    to m                                61S5.0   621.0   615.0   615.0   6215.0   615.0   615.0   615.0   615.0   615.0   61S.0   625.0   615.0   61S.0   615.0   615.0
6a1thlufluat (000 toris)                      1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1250.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0
ommutity lose savfngs 4000 tans) lb                61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5  *t.s    61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5    61.5
Ecnmic rice ic                                     564.0   564.    56.o  5s4.0   564.0   564.0   564.    56.0   564.0 5*64.    564.0   5.    564.0   56.0   5 6.0   56.
Icamimc value of groin tons savings              316.16.  34616.0 34616.01 34616.0 34416N.0 34606.0 34666.0  34666.0 34666.0 34616.0 3W468.  34686.0 34666.0 3466.0 34686.0 34686.0
Savings in operating ctoat                       65903.4 65903.4 65903.6 65903.4 65903.6 659013.4 65903.4 65903.4 159034 65903.4 6590.4 65903.4 65903.4 65903.4 65903.4 65903 4
Omalitp.,atatud price Increase Id                 6937.1  6937.2  693.2  037.2   9317.2  6937.2  0937.2  6937.2  0937.2  6931.2  69)1.2  6937.2  6931.2  6937.2  6937.2  6937:2
tetal bemnfits                                 t17526.0 107576.O 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 101526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0
Costa
Turnover (tiewa)                                    2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0      Z.0     2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0
CapacIty (000 tans)                               630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   63P.0   630.0   630.0   630.0   630.0
lanai tlmapat (000 tarn)                          1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0   140.0  1260.0  1260.0  1260.0  1220.0  1264.0  12.0  126.0  1260.0  1268.0  1260.0
it     at w a =ling costs CIL OWO/tn) Is            0.0      0.6     0.e     0.6     0.6     0.6      0.6     0.6     0.6     0.6     0.0     0.e      0.e     0.6     0.6      0.6
Imrap Ir_gnt Costs (IL OOO/ttn) If                  19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0   19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0
lmt*"nt coats IS
ReWpltceent ttts                                   5f5.0   110.0    36.5     6.9    56.6   120.0    38.5      6.9    56.6   110.0    35.i     6.9    SO.53  110.0    36.5       6.9
stro WA handting costs                            916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   926.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1
Irmu at mIts                                    23940.0 23940.0 23940.0 23940.0 2394.0 23940.0 23940.0 23940.0 239401.0 23940.0 23940.0 23940.0 23910.0 23940.0 23940.0 25940.0
total costs                                     24914.9 24966.1 24894.5 2463.0 24914.9 24966.1 24891.S 24063.0 24914.9 24966.1 2469.5 24863.0 24914.9 24966.1 24894.5 24863.0
ot h"wfits                                       82611.6 82560.4 82631.9 82663.6 026t1.6 8256.4  82631.9 82663.6 82611.6 62350.4 82631.9 62663.6  62611.6 62560.4 82632.9 82663.6



C0I4   SIUA0 nOJlECT
n mli;   d191  tmt  xIcal                                                                          (Page  3)
....................... ..........
.... ... ....................................... .....................  ............................................... ................ .......................... ........ .......... . .. ........ .......... .................... ...... .... ....... ....................
35       36       sr      3        3        49       41       42       4        u        45      4        4?       4        49        0
......... ........... ..... ...... .;..................... ,... .... .,,.... ........... ................. ... _........... .................. _....................... ........ ................. .... .... ....... .............. ......   ......... 
turneer )tlm,) Ja                                        2.6      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0      2.e      2.0      1.0
tCsp   w 0300 tuu( n615.9    615.0   415.0   615.e   61S.6   615.0   615.0   415.0 e                                            1S.0   615.0   615.0   6ts.0   615.0   615.0 6e S.0    IS.*)
=18   thruput 0U  o tut)                               1230.0  1230.6  1230.6  1230.6  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1230.9  1239.4  1230.0  1230.0  1230.0  1250.0  1250.0  123o.6
Ouutti4 lese svis (00 o two) lb                         *1.5      61.5     6.5    61.5    61.5    61.5    61.S    61.5    61.5           6s.5    61.5    *t.5    61.5    41.5    41.5    H1.5
u"_lt price IC                                         SU.0    561.1   S.6   %".e   564.0   S6A.0   56.0   564.e  s56.0                    .0  5s.3  s5.e  s5.6  s5.0  S5.0  5s6.6
conlte value of grain lot  savings                   3        34.0  3   4466.0  3446.S  344606.01 34666.4  36106.0  34166.0  34616.0  34686.0  34606.0  34406.6  3116.0  346616.0   6t6.6  3466U.6
SawVI   lt ngratigng cats I653.4  659.4  65963.6 65993.4 659013.4 69C03.4 65903.  65905.4 65905.4   5903.4  65903.4 65903.4  6903.4  659013.u 6es3.4  6519113.4
0ultivrI-taed prite Itcrone /d                        41931.2  4931.2  49372  637.2  6937.2   637.2  6937.2  6935.2  691.2  6937.2  4931.2  4937.2  6931.2  6937.2  6S9.2  497.2
votes bwtste                                        t107S26.0 107526.0 101526.6 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.0 107526.6  °
Cets
trrwnr (tf_sl )20                                                 2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.6
capcity (6o  turn                                       e.o0 0.0    630.0    39.0   630.0   636.0   630.0   60.0   630.6    4.0   630.0   630.0   63.0   630.0   650.0   636.
Ajwl  tbrwut l6w two)                                 t260.e  126e.o  1268.0  1266.0  126 e.0  1268.0 1      260.6  1240.0 1260.0  1260.0  1260.0   260.0  12460.0  1260.0  1260.6  121110.0
AvrNe s)worg  NO lwilgng csta CIl S0N/teante             *.0      0.6      01       0.6      0.0      0.-      0.e      e.6      0.6      a.6      0.6      0.e      0.6      0.o      0.*      e.g
A. am   trwgrt costs CI 009lenil nI                      19.0     19.0    19.6    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0             .0e      .0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.6
tamestuwi costs to                                         .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .       .
t   sce    costs                                       5s.0    110.0    30..5       6.9     5.0.   110.0      3.5       6.9    50.6   110.9       3.'       .9     56.0   110.0    3M.5        6.9
Storge" O   ftIultng costs                             916.1    916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.1   916.)    MIL1    916.1   916.)   916.1   916.1    *16J    9)6.)   916.11
transprt costs                                       23910.0  239104.  23910.0  23910.0  23940.0  23940.0  23910.0  23910.0  23910.0  23910.0  23940.0 23140.0  23919.0 2S0,0  23910.0  231".0
7t001 Cast                                           24914.9  21966.1  24894.5 24413.9 21914.9  24916.1  21694.5  24863.0  24914.9  24916.1  24.5  24e63.0  24914.9 249.I 248.5  240.0
mlt 0-fits                                           62611.6  62560.4  62631.9  243.6  U2611.6 62560.4  02631.9 8263.6  826)1.6  82560.4  02631.9 0263.6 6261.4  42560.4  6W .9 8263.4
*---..----------- --...............-...-......................-.                   Internal Rates of teturn of Net Stream
/a   Based on current levels of utilization,                                    ml                       19.2hz
a turnover of 2 could be reached around 1994. Tbe
SAl estimate turnover of 8 was possibly optimistic.
lb   Esticated at 52 of thruput.                                                                S1J7tISC VALUES Al 125
/c  Estimated using WB.                                                                                      -...- .    ...
price projections for wheat. Average of Import/                                                 A"RAISA      SullJiICrN   * PECEnRcS
and Export Parity prices were used.                                        S1636                  VALUE        Y*t1E       CtCE
/d   Estimated at 12 of gross realization.                                      a9                433,2r6.0    27S,;t9.00        .35.615
Ic  Mission estimate.
/f  Per ThO Finance Department.                                                 co                276,96.00   133.276.00         55.51X
/g  Using the following
inflators: 1991: 1.00; 1990: 1.64; 1989: 2.78                              Intern Sal a         ett *  .3     2
1988: 4.88; 1987: 6.75; 1986: 9.12; 1985: 13.22.                          tCuvpn  etunt Rtate   letwn   16.51



PART III
ANNE X 1
Talte 3
GRAIN ST3OtCE PROJECT
.. ...................
icono ic Analysis - Fort Silos
.........................
L mitlion (t1991 constant prices)                                                                      (Page  1)
1i2        3         4         5        6        7       8       9      to      11      t2      is       14      15      16       I?      18      19
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............................   ......... .................................   .......................... ........................ ....................................... .......... .............. .... .... ......... ...... ................... .... ........................
enet its
Turnover (tiies) /                                          -        -                   -         -    3.0      4.0     5.D     6.0     6.0    6.0    6.0        6.0    6S0      6.0 D     .0     6.0     6.0
Capacity tOO tons)                                                         -                  -        130.0  130.0   130.0   130.0  130.0   130.0  130.0  1300   1  30    230.0   230.0   150.0   130.0
Ar=wat thru0t (0   toosi                                                       -         -         -  390.0   520.0  650.0  180.0   780.0  780.0  780.0  180.0   780.0   780.0   780.0  M7800   180.0
Quantity loss savings 1000 tons) lb                         -        -                   -         -    20 7    27 .    34.5    41.4   41.4    41.4   41.4   41.4    41 4    41.4    41.4    41.4    41.4
Economic price ic                                           .                            -             564.0  36.0  564.0  564.0  564.0  564.0  56.0   5 0   564.0   564.0  564.0  564.0  564.o
Econce  value ot grain less savrngs                                                                - 11657.9 15543.9 19429.8 23315.8 23315J. 25315.8 23315.8 23315.8 23315.3 253315. 23315.8 23315.8 23315.3
savings in oprotaing costs                                                                           20896.2 27861.6 34827.0 41792.4 41792.4 42792.4 41792.4 42792.4 41792.4 41792.4 41792.4 41792.4 41792.4
Oueity-teiated price increase /d                                -              -         -         - 2199.6  2932.8  3666.0  4399.2  4399.2  4399.2  4399.2  4399.2  4399.2  4399.2  4399.2  4399.2  4399.2
Totat Leneb-its                                                                          -         - 3473.7' 46338.3  79s2z.8 69507.3 69507.3 69307.3 69507.3 09507.3 69507.3 69507.3 69307.3 69507.3 69507.3
Costs                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t,
Turniover (fes)                                             *        1         .-        *         -     3.0     4.0    5.      6.0     6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0    t6.O     6.0
Capacit  1000 tns)                                          *        *         .         .         -  130.0   130.0   130.0  130.0   130.0   130.0  130.0  130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   I50.0   130.0
AmLrt thruput 4000 tons)                                    *        *         *         *         *   390.0  s2e.0   65O.0   780.0   780.0    MDO  110.0   780.0   780.0   780.0  760.0   780.0   780.0
Average storage ut  haidling costs (IL GOO/ton) le                                                      1 2 *  -  *    1.9    11.7    11.4   11.0    11.0    11.0   11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0
Avergo traport coats (IL OOO fton) It                                                                   19.0    19.0   19.0   29.0    19.0    19.0   19.0   If.0    19.0    19.0   19.0   19.0    29.0
Investant costs /g                                             24536.0  130178.0  209704.0  36662.0   94.0 
Replacant costs                                             -        -         *          .        -             7.3   65.2    54.9    28.4       0.3     7.3   65.2    54.9    28.4    0.5        7.3   63.2
StornSt am Ptining costs                                             -                   -            5011.5  6050 a  7358.0 a8380.0  £3ao8.       as88.0  8s8.0  6380.0  8580.0  8380.0 a8eo.o  8350.0  8580.0
Trasport coats                                                       -         -         -            7410.0  9s80.0 123500 14820.0 148200.0 24820.0 14320.0 24820.0 24I820.0 14820.0 24820.0 14820.0 14820.0
total costs                                                    14536.0  130278.D  109704.0  3W666.0 13375.5 15945.3 19773.1 23454.9 23418.4 23400.5 23407.3 23465.1 23454.9 23418.4 23400.3 23407.3 23465.1
Nit benefits                                                * .14536.0  31Q017.0 -109704.0 -36664.0 21576.2 30395.0 38149.7 46052.3 4608.9 46106.8 46100.0 46042.2 46052.5 46058.9 46106.8 46100.0 46042.2



GR^AIN 11QA46 POIRJCI
tcon*ic AMlyss  ;0;7r Silos
..............................
It *iliton (191 constant prectsl                                                            (Page  2i
20     21      22     23      24     25      26     27      ZB     29      30     31      32     33      34     SS      36      S7
Senet i t5
lurnover (totes) /a                                 6.0    6.0    8.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0
CaItcyly 4000 tons)                                130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  230.0  130.0  130.0  230.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.
An=l thrit (000 tosr)                              r80.0  1n0.0  n.o0  10.0  180.0  780.0  7t0.0  7 0.0  750.0   50.0  150.0  188.0  750.0  750.0  75O.0  i80.0  7B0.0  ?50.0
Oumntity loss savings (000 tams) 7b                 41.4  4t.4   41.4   41.4   41.4   41.4   41.4   41.4   *1.4   41.4   41.4   41.4   41.4   41.4   41.4   41.4   41.4   41.4
Econoafc prSce It                                  564.0  564.0  5U.0  564.0  564.0  544.0  56.0  544.0  544.0  56.0  564.0  564.0  564.0  554.0  564.0  564.0  s64.0  564.0
Ecornie value of grain loss savings              23315.8 23315.8 23315.0 23315.5 23315.8 253. 2 . 23315.5 23315.8 23315.0 23315J 23315.8 233tS.5 23315.6 2335 .5 23315.5 23315.5 23315.0 23315.8
Savings in optrating costs                       41792.4 41792.4 41792.4 41192.4 41792.4 41?92.4 41792.4 41792.4 41792.4 4192.4 41792.4 41192.4 41792.4 41792.4 41792.4 W1792.4 41792.4 41792.4
Ouatitp-talsted price incrtese id                 4399.2 4399.2  4399.2  399.2 4399.2 4399.2 4399.2 4399.2 4399.2 4399.2 4399.2 4399.2 4399.2 4199.2 4399.2 4399.2 4399.2 4399.2
Totat benellts                                   69507.3 69507.3 69507.3 69507.3 69507.3 69507.3 69507.3 69507.3 69507.3 69507.3 69507.3 6950r.3 69507.3 6950r.3 69507.3 c9507.3 69517.3 69507.3
costs                                                                                                                                                                                           4
Turnover (tris)                                     6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0
C.i1ty (000 tons)                                  130.0  130.0  130.0  1SO.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  230.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  230.0  350.0
Aivjl thrLput 0000 tons)                           780.0  150.0  78.0  180.0  1W.0  750.0  780.  780.0  750.0  760.0  It70.S  75t.0  780.   780.0  750.0  750.0  78C.0  I80.
AveragO storaew   MO haidling costs IIL 0007/Ion) /  11.0   11.0   11.0    1.O   11.0   11.0   11.0   11.0   11.0   11.0   11.0   11.0   11.0   11.0   11.0   11.0   It.0   11.0
Average Itisjport costs tn1 NO/ton) /t              19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   99.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   11.0   19.    19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0
!nveStaent costs /S
6ep9lctnt costs                                     54.9   18.4    0.5    7.3   65.1   54.9   18.4    0.S    7.3   65.1   54.9   18.4    0.5    7.3   Zs1   54.9   10.4    0.5
Storage old hnaolin costs                         6580.0 85o0.0 a858.0 85810.0 58w.o  SS50.0 8580.0 8380.0  8s80.0 a858o 0    s   0.0       a580.0 8580.0  858.0  8580.0 5580.0 8O60.0 t580.0
tranaport costs                                  1420.0 14520.0 14520.0 120.0 14820.0 1420.0 14820.0 14820.0 14820.0  450.0 1820.0 14820.0  1420.0 14520. 140 0 142. 14820.0 148. 1820o.
lotal costs                                      23454.9 23418.4 23400.5 23407.3 23465.1 23454.9 23418.4 23400.5 23407.3 ?3465.1 23454.9 25416.4 23400.5 23107.3 2365.1 23454.9 2341a.4 23600.5
net benetits                                     46052.s *6088.9 46106.8 46100.0 46042.2 46052.5 46608.9 46106.8 46100.0 46042.2 46052.5 46088.9 46106.8 46100.0 '6042.2 U6052.5 46038.9 46106.t



0*1Wi StoWACE POJECI
Ecnomeic siyulO - ;;rt Sitos
..............................
it mtUlen (t19   cestant prcn)                                                                                   (Page  3)
............................. ................                                                                   (Pg            39
........  ......... ................... .................................... .............................................................. ......................................................................... ...... .............................
36      39      40      41      42      43      44  45          4        47      4       4t      50
..  ............................. ..... .................................. ....................................................                               ...
leftits
turnover (tims) la                                        5.0     5.0     6.0    6.0    4.0       6.0    6.0      6.0     6.0    6.       5.0    6.0      6.0
Caaity (000 tne)                                        130.0  130.O  130.0  130.0   110.0  130.0  130.0  t30.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.e  t30.0
AMUSa  thruput (000 tons)                                3.e   no.0  7 n0.o   n.0   no.o   na.0   110.0  13.0    3.0   7o.0  130.o    3.o    1.o
Quantity loss s%wing  (O0O tans) /b                      41.4    41.4    41.4   41.4   41.4   41.4   41.4    41.4   41.4   41.4   41.4   41.4   41.4
Economic priIc  /c                                      564.0   544.0   54.    54.0   44.   544.0  564.0  344.0   54.   544.0  544.0  544.   544.
Economc valur of ie   in le e  savings                23315.8 23315.8 2313. 23315.1 23115.6 23315.6 2351S.O 23315.0 2331S.6 2331S.11 2331S  MtS  23315.3
Savio g  in ier tg cat                                417M.4 411M.4 417M.4 417M.4 417M.4 41792.4 492.4 41792.4 41192.4 41792.4 4112.4 41192.4 41792.4
OuatIty.raetdts rt ec Intrease /d                      4399.2  4399.2  4399.2  439.2  439.2  439.2  4399J  439.2  439.2  439.2  439.2  4399.2  4399.2
*otal benefIts                                       49o5.3 69501.3 49507.3  9507.3 69507.3 49507.3  9507.3 69507.3 64950.3 69507.3 49507.S 697.3 49507.3                                   W
Cosits                                                t
turn er (tim,s                                            6.0     4.0     5.0    64.      4.0     5.0     4.0     6.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     6.0     6.0
Cmeity (000 tem)                                        130.0  130.0  130.t   130.   130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0
Avi  t1r'ft (000 to)                                    71.0   1.0   13.6   n0.0   ne.0   1e.0   7:0   no.0   no.0   no.0  780.0                   .o0  730.0
Awer"ge stere. Wrd hu"lIng cott  (TL 00tan) is           11.0    II.$    11.0    11.0   11.0   11.0   11.0   11.0    11.0   11.0   11.0  t1.0    11.0
Avers"  tramport costs CIL o01t) It                      19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0    19.0    19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0
Investment cett /g
leptacmnt coats                                                                                                                   os3:o 3.  54.9    1.  0.  7.    65.1    54.9    1 t4t  0.5  .3   65. 1    54.9
Sternage ad hacRing crts                               65U0.0 3101.0  5U.O0 351.0  6101.0  656 0.0   3580.0  30.0  3380.0  3530.  03510   530. 0 t50.0
Transport cegts                                       1432.0 1412.0 1412.0 1482.0 14820.0 14M2.0 14120.0 14020.0 1482.0 1482.0 1410M.0 14120.0 1482.0
Totat costs                                          23407.3 2346S 1 23454. 23418.4 2400.5 2347.3 234S.1 23454.9 23413.4 23400.5 23407.3 235t.1 2Y-A.9
Wet bereit                                            46100.0 44042.2  O052.5 4600.9  4106.8 46100.0 4042.2 46052.5 446.9 44106. 44100.0 4042.2 4052.5
Internct SaesZ ef Seturni ot ot Strom
.. . , ..... ....................................................                     nto   ttsf   tunf 'tSra
is  lased on current levels of ut£ilzation.                                             331                      11.942
a turnover of 6 could bg Terbce  around 1994. The
SAL getimte  tunravo  of S vas prolhbly opt2-et2tic
lb  Intimated at SZ of thruput.                                                                          SiITCHIUG VALUES AT 12
/c  letimated aoing  B.
price projectoina of wheat. Average of Inport/                                                           PPRAISAL    SWltCHl"G   PERCENTAGE
/ xport                grrotY pr acc tane                                          SthEI                  VALUE        VAtUE        CHUANE
Id aStuot        t-d at IS of a    r.a .aulization                                                         in-  ---.*- .U  .
{o  gortee entt_to                                              ~         ~      ~ ~~~~~9 262 193.00   263.2S1.00   0.413
to  Runaice estimate.
It  For  0W  flnsoea   DepefErt.                                                       etO                263,251.00   262.193.00        -0.41W
IS  Ueseg ube, feiloai*g
393 .t8tor5t  3983: 6.15; l95    9.12; 18 : 13 22.                                t    rn    Value  t OCC* 12    -1.05.1
Interoa Rtate of  ecturn a I2X
CowPmn Equjivalent late of Waurn * 123



IBRD 14195R1
26'                          26'                          36'.                          32'                          34'                                                                                                                   2                           44'
BULGARIA                                                                                                                                                                                          TURKEY
S-cu                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GRAIN STORAGE PROJECTH
Iflon-\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L,                                                                                     -,                                                                          00415<   800440~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z  AA
ZOos 6006                                                                                                                                                    710  o                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U. S. S.R.
GREECE                          6164A661(                                                0121                    06001        1401               000                     104106hKON                                                                                   0
UR,  45  -"A"A                ESKIRA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0650                                                                            OOtH00                                              <   <174
I~TANUL  60.~<r                                                          7                       16(1003               SORHL                                    Ql40500A40KU                                      04056
,RA16614A              <~~~~~~~~04C]A   ¾ENI                                BoLu46611                                                00I10«9,LR 0<1                                                               BT                                 N60              'POI
10610  610<0                                                                    4,A~~~~~~~~~~~~Gu
GELSO  0                                                                                         I                                                                                                                                                                        V~~«20 0  -.. 
8166  6050616E040L455A    6605   ~.ri~-o1o«  606    ANKARA5   006004                                        41101001                                       0401444                   lEHMAN    H.110              460605                             4
40-               8                                    N~~~~~G    NDUZLiR I6606406  1R 4R20 /S6Sf    6        ANKARA         OOLsY AA0<                                        005         A      04A                                          3El<1
A.jZ     R5n--6o                                                                                                                                                                                            ER4 12<1  1016wISLAM4IC
12064  11.1 <01.6  146651               0541611              Yo64~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-  05A0-50FT6                                                Ooo-o                          6011              .REPUBLIC
L4\  0~~~~~961Sl4                           Z42l$fl~~~~~~~~~~~-0~~~9  ~~~1~~~0 ,9  6046604111 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~~O.lC     0~~~~~~<   5046104                                                                    <~~~~~~~fKEIK  I.       '6PL
60<100<  665660  114011  6010             0001112611         0        H11211.600                                    Qoosos           066<0                      0<1<b   -                         SOFI 2
-ru                                                                                                                   f                    LIYA      IA 666C561 I0o,(AG1OF IRA
oN, 046 605160"\                                                       001n0 604                                                        010154H
- 10    60610 <2T1<'~&412i    00 101.6 t6361446<           104      <                                        41004                                                ..-                                                           --- )-6-~1  0100O
AKHISAR    S'MAUI                        -YE~~~~~~~i                                                                    AN',SRl501 ~       oorooo        ,-4101
E6J- 65H1                                                       06   LJ'<001                                                                106        -              9I05<iAS1                                           156
006840   0260  0C14?l1 --  06996~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~020/1    510<0440  oalos.06i12 4650600  - 510/191506  0                                                             51446~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRAKAR
38'                                                        5044H     <s<.0                     <411    006607560145                                                                                                  09o<-                                      D.-
WK                                                                                                         DF~~~~~~~~S59R~gc00                                                                                           o
64      :IC VQ4C    I6600.9 ONA                                         506        4A.A/ N9 10                                                                           >'0"
<61I2l1961~                  <10   0060446                                          4060             104                                 05j                  1<404             0
61065  6610  4CP~4~~  5l610~t    29<6112600    (41~11<<            «5141 -                         41461IRAQ
051650o6  4644  ~     1QlOOl         1.000000         1< 0114             -           0101          20/           1/94l~00QtZQ4UK055 IA                                      A 
~IIN I                                                            10,21            4 ~ '            «a                40oo  .                     s       /      -   24,
II4616AC-A RA0 1                                                                                                                     011           0450120   
1       61661                 60120645                                    --   Cj600610600i 6                                   '7" 0KM.  /Ao
-Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10 [5
DNAMA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9  1                                                                         611
REGVIIONAL OFFICE1                                                                                                                   5116                                    4.\(A
AGENCY                                                                                                                                                        6105ANT040./L                                                                                                             A-o  d'o
o  TEMPORARY PURCHASING CENTER                                                               RAILWAYS                                                                 %~                                        KILCUOIFSRO0           0                      <TRE
TEMPORARY 56165 CENORfi                                              REGIONAL RO<NDARIE5                                                                            0,....IH 5<.l.o,o-.ol.110o4606<lOO..RFGIONA5 BOUNDARIES                                                             OF IRA
26   LOCATION AND Si2E OP PROPOSED GRAIN STORAGE                                                                                                                                               .-,oo,o<-  00..,oo1a.-l.l. 4o   .                                                         060'6.-I~R.
IERAONLBOUNDATIES                                                                     ,l.0rl.<,H100460460.<4,<6,~350                                                             so      <
LOCATION AND SIZE OR EXISTING FACILIIIED AND UNDER CON6STRUCTION                                                                                                                          .50,4olb7-l10..s1.bll4l4.<0/060k.
26'            26'                            ~~~~                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30'  30r'   3,4-                           3<'                            36                               4                             11        4<OP          j           ...3/
DECEMBER1991



