Document of
The World Bank                    F'IL E   '0"p y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2593-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
June 13, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1/
Currency Unit                Calendar 1978                March 1979
US Dollar 1         =         TL 24.28                     TL 25.00
TL 1                =         US$ 0.04                     US$ 0.04
1/ Note: This Report and the Staff Appraisal Report have been prepared on thje
basis of the exchange rate of TL25 = US$1.00, which prevailed until Turkey
introduced a multiple exchange rate system in April which was again modified
on June 11, 1979. The current rate is TL 47.1 = US$1.00, except for oil
and fertilizer imports and agricultural exports for which it is TL 35 = US$1.00.
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Turkey      -       March 1 to February 28
TMO                       -        January 1 to December 31
TCDD                      -        January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ASSR      -         Agricultural Sector Survey, IBRD Sept. 1977
CLAs      -         Convertible Lira Accounts
CP        -         IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program
FEC       -         Foreign Exchange Component
MA        -         Ministry of Food, Agriculture, and Livesto.
SAB       -         Supreme Auditing Board
SEE       -         State Economic Enterprise
SIS       -         State Institute of Statistics
SPO       -         State Planning Organization
TCDD      -         Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Devlet Demiryollari
(Turkish State Railways)
TMO       -         Toprak Mahsulleri Offisi
(Soil Products Office)
TPC       -         Total Project Cost



- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Turkey.
Beneficiaries:       The Soils P'roducts Office (Toprak Mahsulleri Ofisi--TMO)
and Turkish State Railways (Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Devlet
Demiryollari--TCDD).
Amount:              US$85.0 miLlion equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:               Seventeen years, including four years grace, at 7.9 per-
cent per aanum.
Relending Terms:    The Borrower will onlend to TMO and TCDD the equivalent of
about $81.8 and $3.0 million respectively for seventeen
years, including 4 years of grace, at the same rate of
interest as the proposed loan. The Borrower will bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:         The main objectives of the proposed Project are to con-
struct first-phase silos and provide related grain trans-
port and handling equipment under TMO's Master Plan for
expansion of grain storage capacity; increase TMO's
operationa,l capability to market grains; and encourage
improvemen,ts in agricultural commodity price support policy,
input subsidy programs and agricultural land-use policies.
The Project includes: (i) construction of 860,000 tons
of inland and 50,000 tons of port storage silos; (ii)
improvements in two existing port silos; (iii) provision
of 300 automatic loading rail hopper wagons; (iv) improve-
ments in TMO's management data processing and communica-
tions system; (v) training of silo managers and staff;
and (vi) a study of Turkey's land-use strategies and the
measures required to improve them, particularly as regards
the price support and input subsidy programs.
The substitution of permanent, covered, vertical storage
silos for temporary plastic-covered open storage will
facilitate grain handling and reduce spoilage, especially
in the humnid coastal regions. The Project will substan-
tially improve grain handling and transport efficiency
and minimize costs, by locating nearly two thirds of the
proposed inland storage capacity on the rail network and
providing rail-handling equipment. The substitution of
automatic-loading grain hopper cars and unit trains for
the present ad hoc box-car rail service will reduce costs,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 11 -
delays and grain losses. Improvements and expansion of
port storage facilities will increase storage turnover
rates at the ports, thereby lowering costs and facili-
tating exports. The risk of underutilization of silos
appears small since even if wheat export surpluses are
not maintained, inland silos could be used for feedgrains
and port silos for imports or inland storage.
Estimated Cost:                               Local        Foreign        Total
- (US$ million) --------
Construction of Inland Silos              33.1          51.6          84.7
Construction of Port Silos                 2.6           4.7           7.3
Improvements to Existing Port Silos        0.1           0.4           0.5
Design and Engineering                     2.8           3.7           6.5
Manufacture of Rail Hopper Wagons         18.1           2.5          20.6
Technical Assistance (including
training, consultants and
studies)                                0.2           0.5           0.7
Sub-total                       56.9          63.4         120.3
Contingencies
Physical                                5.7            6.3         12.0
Price                                  58.5           15.3         73.8
Total                          121.1 /1       85.0         206.1
Financing Plan:                               Local        Foreign        Total
-------- (US$ million) --------
Bank                                    85.0           85.0
Government                  0.1            -            0.1
TMO                       89.0             -           89.0
TCDD                      32.0             -           32.0
Total                 121.1          85.0         206.1
Estimated
Disbursement:       IBRD            FY   1980    1981       1982      1983    1984
Annual                3.0    23.0       31.0     21.0      7.0
Cumulative            3.0    26.0      57.0      78.0    85.0
Rate of Return:    21 percent.
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 2429a-TU dated May 24, 1979
Regional Project Department EMENA
/1   Includes $4 million in indirect foreign exchange costs for rail hopper
wagons.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBiD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the RepubliLc of Turkey for the equivalent of US$85 million to help finance
the foreign exchange cost of a grain storage project. The loan would have
a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.9 percent
per annum.  The equivalent of about US$82 and US$3 million would be on-lent
respectively l:o the Turkish Soils Products Office (TMO) and the Turkish State
Railways (TCDD) on the same terms as the proposed loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report (Nlo. 1272-TU) entitled "Country Economic Memo-
randum - Turkey" dated October 21, 1976, was circulated to the Executive
Directors on Niovember 2, 1976. The situation subsequently deteriorated,
culminating in a serious economic crisis. This Part analyzes these develop-
ments. (A fuller account may be found in the Economic Annex to the Report
and Recommendiation of the PresiLdent on the Erdemir Stage II Steel Project,
dated June 15, 1978.) It also describes the short and medium-term policy
initiatives of the Ecevit Government which took power in early 1978, and
cautiously assesses economic prospects. A special economic mission visited
Turkey in April 1979 to review the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-83). A com-
prehensive report on the medium-term outlook is being prepared based on
its findings.
Economic Structure and Causes of 1977 Crisis
3.        In most respects, the record of Turkish economic development over
the last two decades has been good. As the result of a strong commitment to
rapid growth and modernization, real output has grown, on average, by more
than 6 percent per annum. Laudable strides have also been made towards
meeting basic needs in such arieas as education, health care, water supply,
and rural roads. This impressive record has been punctuated (in 1958, 1970
and most recently in 1977) by severe balance-of-payments crises. The recent
crisis has been the product partly of extraneous factors and partly of the
Turkish development strategy itself, which paid insufficient attention to the
structural weaknesses of the economy and perhaps exacerbated some of them.
4.        The emphasis of successive governments on industrialization doubled
the sector's share in total output between 1955 and 1977, but resulted in
comparative neglect of agricultural development, already hampered by inappro-
priate subsidy and pricing policies. Moreover, although some parts of
1/   This Part is identical to that in the President's Reports on the Ports
Rehabilitation and Thirteenth TSKB Projects.



-2-
Turkish industry are efficient, and more have the potential to become so, a
strong emphasis so far on sophisticated capital-intensive technology has
resulted in high-cost production in certain sectors. Unselective protection
against competition from imports has also inhibited the development of an
industrial structure well-suited to Turkey's comparative advantages in terms
of location, natural resources and labor availability. One important con-
sequence of this, has been that Turkey has so far been unable to develop a
strong industrial export base, and has relied mainly instead on its tradi-
tional agricultural exports (supplemented by workers' remittances) to finance
the imports of materials and capital goods needed for its ambitious moderni-
zation effort. This pattern of trade has been a fundamental cause of the
difficulty which Turkey has periodically experienced in reconciling rapid
growth with a viable external payments position.
5.        During the world recession of the mid 1970s, unlike many other
countries, the average annual real rate of GDP growth in Turkey was 7.2
percent. This includes 1977 when real GDP grew by only 4.4 percent, follow-
ing the economic crisis that year and shortages of power, imported inputs
and the like. Growth over this period was made possible by rising public
sector activity, which provided a stimulus to aggregate demand that more than
offset the depressing effect of sluggish exports and the increased outflow
of payments for oil and other imports. The growth of output was therefore
constrained not by demand, but by supply. Favorable weather and improved
inputs led to an average annual rate of growth of agricultural output of about
4.1 percent in the period 1970-77, while industrial output grew at about 9.2
percent--principally as a result of the sustained high level of industrial
investment. The general pace of investment in Turkey also did not slacken
during the world recession of the mid 1970s. On the contrary, largely
as the result of an intensified public investment drive from 1975 onwards, the
share of fixed investment in GDP remained around 20 percent during 1973-78.
6.        In this period, employment was not at the forefront of development
objectives. Unemployment and underemployment were relatively high, totaling
about 11 percent of the labor force in 1970 and over 13 percent in 1977.
The underlying causes, aggravated by a sharp reduction in the emigration
rate since 1973, are a high rate (2.5 percent per annum) of population growth
and the adoption of relatively capital-intensive methods of production in the
modern sectors of agriculture and industry. The comparatively slow rate of
growth of employment has also had an adverse effect on the distribution of
income, although basic needs are largely met. The two main causes of this
inequality, however, are the large gap between agricultural and non-
agricultural labor productivity and the wide dispersion of farmers' incomes.
7.        During the mid 1970s, Turkey's external trading position deteriorated
markedly due to rapid increases in imports of goods. These tripled in value
between 1973 and 1977, reaching $5.8 billion. About half this increase was
due to rising world prices, including a four-fold rise in the price of oil,
which currently accounts for one third of the import bill. The other half was
due to a steep rise in the volume of imports.



8.        'High import demand has been characteristic of Turkey in the 1970s,
and may partly be a "catching up" phenomenon. In 1970, after a decade
of strict import rationing, the ratio of imports to GDP was only 7 percent,
about half the average for countries of Turkey's size and stage of develop-
ment. By 1977, after several years of liberalization of import restrictions,
it reached 14 percent. This process was associated with increased imported
inputs in agriculture and changes in industrial structure and technology,
which rested growth on imported inputs. After 1973, the growth of imports
was accelerated by: a fall in the local currency price of imported goods
relative to domestic output, due to a rate of inflation which exceeded the
international inflation ratie by more than the rate of depreciation of the
TL against other currencies; an absolute shortage of domestically produced
goods; an increase in the share of fixed investment in total expenditure; and
a tendency to build up imported stocks in anticipation of devaluation or
import restrictions.
9.        From 1970 to 1973, rising imports were more or less offset by rapid
expansion of exports--particularly manufactured exports such as cotton yarn
and fabric, leather products and prccessed food--and workers' remittances.
In value terms, merchandise exports increased from $588.5 million in 1970
to $1,317 million in 1973, or 31 percent per annum. Manufactured exports
increased even faster--from $100.3 million in 1970 to $443.4 million in 1973,
or by 64 percent per annum. In volume terms, they increased by an average
annual rate of 22 percent, a very high rate indeed. The increase in workers'
remittances was even more dramatic--up from $273 million in 1970 to $1,183
million in 1973, reaching a peak of $1.4 billion in 1974. Since 1973 however,
export performance has been weak and remittances also declined after 1974.
The value of exports of goods rose by 33 percent between 1974 and 1977, when
it reached $1.8 billion, mainly due to rising world prices; in volume terms,
they showed no upward trend. Thus by 1977, merchandise exports were only
one-third of the imports.
10.       The poor showing of exports between 1974-77, is partly attributable
to world recession. This not only affected industrial exports; it also
depressed Turkish agricultural exports such as hazelnuts, raisins and tobacco,
and industrial raw materials like cotton. The difficulties were aggravated by
two other factors: (a) agricultural support prices bore little relation to
world prices, and thus failed to provide incentives to farmers to increase
production of exportable commodities; and (b) this was compounded by a general
neglect of agricultural development, buoyant domestic demand for its produce
and ineffective administration of its export sales. More importantly, indus-
trial exports, presently on,ly 7 percent of the value of industrial output,
were stifled by a more rapid increase of production costs in Turkey than in
her trading partners, which was insufficiently offset by periodic small
devaluations of the TL. Cconsequently, exporting, which had been lucrative in
the early 1970s, became less profitable, and potentially exportable production
was diverl:ed to a booming and profitable domestic market.
11.       The current account balance moved from a surplus of S0.5 billion in
1973 to a deficit of $3.5 billion in 1977, because of a rapid deterioration



- 4 -
in the trade balance, besides a decline in workers' remittances from a peak of
$1.4 billion in 1974 to around $1 billion in 1977. One important cause of this
has been the restrictions on immigration imposed by Western European countries
in the face of growing domestic unemployment caused by the world recession.
The rate at which earnings were remitted also fell substantially. This partly
reflected the overvaluation of the TL, which induced workers to hold their
savings abroad or remit through unofficial channels.
12.       The large current account deficit was not matched by an increased
inflow of medium and long-term external capital. Turkey had deliberately kept
both foreign private investment and private long-term borrowing to a minimum.
The gross inflow from official long-term borrowing during 1970-75 stagnated at
about $300 million per annum. Initially, this was due to a manageable need
for foreign finance, given the tremendous increase in workers' remittances in
the early 1970s. Subsequently, it was because of a lack of experience and
initiative on the part of successive governments to develop and tap new
sources of external borrowing, when faced with a decline in multilateral and
bilateral lending on concessional terms. While in 1976 and 1977, long-term
loan commitments rose to over $1 billion per annum, disbursements continued to
be slow because most loans were tied to specific projects, whose implementa-
tion was slow. Consequently, the overall balance of payments moved from a
surplus of $0.9 billion in 1973 to a deficit of $2.4 billion in 1977. It was
financed by running down the foreign exchange reserves and by various forms of
short-term borrowing, which by the end of 1977 totalled $6.5 billion.
13.       An important source of short-term borrowing was the Convertible Lira
Accounts (CLAs). It provided nearly $2 billion in 1975 and 1976. These are
deposits placed with Turkish banks by foreign commercial banks and non-
resident Turks, which were guaranteed until last year against exchange rate
risk, by the Central Bank. Another major source of finance was short-term
suppliers' credits, partly covered by export credit insurance in the export-
ing countries. A swap facility was also established with the Bank for Inter-
national Settlements, and a scheme whereby the Dresdner Bank took in time
deposits from Turkish workers in Germany, offered high interest rates, and
made the proceeds available to Turkey. During 1977 however, foreign banks
became reluctant to rollover the outstanding stock of short-term debt, and
even more reluctant to make further substantial loans. The Central Bank was
driven to delaying foreign exchange transfers on a large scale. The resulting
substantial accumulation of arrears, made it even harder to obtain new credits.
14.       The deterioration in the balance of payments position can also
be viewed partly as a reflection of inadequate efforts at demand management
and domestic resource mobilization, especially in the public sector. The
public sector deficit rose steadily from TL 6 billion (2 percent of GDP) in
1973 to TL 77 billion (9 percent of GDP) in 1977. This occurred despite a
creditable tax performance and was mainly due to a deterioration in the
financial position of the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs), and in particular
of the operational SEEs which dominate the transport and energy sectors and



account for half the output of mining and manufacturing. Successive govern-
ments, in an effort to slow inflation, held the price increases of operational
SEEs below t:he rate at which their already high costs were rising, thus
transforming a TL 5 billion profit in 1973 into a TL 20 billion loss in 1977.
The scale oi- SET investment was also  greatly escalated, further widening the
gap between public sector savings and public sector investment. Most of the
increased de!ficit was financed by borrowing from the Central Bank, since
administerecl ceilings on interest rates made it hard to attract sufficient
purchasers for government bonds.  As a result, and despite a large decline in
the foreign exchange reserves, the money supply increased rapidly, at an
average annual rate of about 30 percent between 1974 and 1977.
15.       The rate of inflation (as measured by the wholesale price index)
declined from 30 percent in 1974 to 10 percent in 1975, but rose to 24 percent
in 1977. Besides cost-push influences on the price level (including a power-
ful labor union movement and a farmer-oriented agricultural price support
policy), the recent trend also results from excess demand caused by the
enlargement of the public sector deficits and the private investment boom.
Recent Economic Programs and Performance
16.       Tentative stabilization measures to stem the resulting economic
crisis, taken by the coalition government of Mr. Demirel towards the end of
1977, did not go far enough and came too late. In early 1978, a new govern-
ment, with a small but working majority, came to power under Mr. Ecevit. It
purposefully set about taking painful, but essential, steps to restore order
in the chaot:ic economic house it inherited and build up the confidence of the
international financial community in Turkey's future. It swiftly formulated
a package oif stabilization measures as part of the 1978 Budget and Annual
Program. This formed the basis of a Standby Agreement with the IMF in April,
1978. In summary, the short and medium term remedies applied by the Govern-
ment to solve the economic crisis contain four salient elements. First,
restraint oi- domestic demand relative to output, through increases in public
and private savings relative to domestic investment. Second, measures that
directly boost exports substaLntially, including the maintenance of competi-
tiveness, or that restrain imports.  Third, sustained efforts to obtain a
substantial increase in medium and long-term external loans. Fourth, pari
passu with the rescheduling of the outstanding stock of short-term debts,
conversion of these debts into medium-term obligations, and exercise of
strict control over future short-term borrowing. Ultimately, considerable
restructuring of the economy to rectify imbalances in Turkey's current
foreign tracle pattern, will be entailed.
17.       To raise domestic savings relative to domestic investment, the
Ecevit government, between March and May 1978, increased a wide range of
SEE prices and tariffs. In early September 1978, SEE prices for petroleum,
petroleum products and sugar were increased by 80 percent. All price in-
creases together were expected to add TL 54 billion to SEE revenues in a
full year. The Government also substantially raised the stamp duty on



- 6 -
imports, and proposed to the Parliament, a number of other tax revenue mea-
sures, including a large increase in motor vehicle, income, corporation and
municipal taxes, as part of a broader set of measures designed to enhance the
efficiency and equity of the fiscal system. To control public sector expendi-
tures, especially investment, it decided to concentrate on the completion of
existing projects and cut back on new projects, except in the bottleneck
energy and ports sectors, and for exports and such basic imported commodities
as steel and fertilizers. In these ways, the Government aimed to markedly
reduce public sector deficits and public sector borrowing from the Central
Bank. In conjunction with other limits on Central Bank lending agreed with
the IMF, these were expected to reduce the rate of growth of the money supply
and the availability of credit, so as to restrain investment and consumption.
To mobilize private savings, most interest rates, including those on govern-
ment bonds and the repatriated savings of migrant workers were increased.
18.       Despite the stringency of these politically difficult stabilisation
measures, the results were mixed. The consolidated budget deficit in 1978 is
officially estimated at about TL 34 billion, compared with TL 48 billion in
1977. But the rate of growth of the money supply in 1978 was 37 percent,
roughly the same as in 1977. Moreover, the price level rose very sharply
in 1978, even at the end of the year, the rate of inflation was around 50
percent per annum. Money wages also increased at an annual rate of over 50
percent, despite the Government's "social contract" with the largest trade
union federation in July 1978.
19.       To discourage imports and stimulate exports further, the TL was
devalued against the dollar three times between September 1977 and March 1978,
by a total of about 50 percent. In addition, it drifted downwards with the
dollar against other currencies. The effect of this devaluation on imports
was augmented by the increase in stamp duty in 1978 and in the short term,
also by government's decisions to reduce imports of investment goods and give
priority to imports of materials and spares needed to maintain, as far as
possible, output from existing installed capacity. This, together with the
shortage of foreign exchange, resulted in a drop in merchandise imports from
$5.8 billion in 1977 to about $4.6 billion in 1978. This compares with the $5
billion figure envisaged under the April 1978 Standby Agreement.
20.       As regards exports, the effects of the devaluations were partly
offset by a reduction in April 1978 of export rebates. In July 1978, these
rebates were increased again. As an additional financial incentive, the
Government accorded priority in the allocation of foreign exchange for the
purchase of imported inputs for export production and that of essential
goods for domestic sale. Exporters have also been given special permission
to finance their import requirements through acceptance credits. The degree
of priority accorded to exporters in the allocation of domestic credit
through the banking system was increased, as were the interest rate rebates
on domestic borrowing by exporters. An inter-ministerial Export Coordination
Committee set up to resolve the problems faced by exporters, has succeeded in
simplifying some export licensing and registration procedures. Export targets



-7-
have been set for SEEs and Agricultural Sales Cooperatives. The Government
took prompt steps to earn foreign exchange by disposing of large existing
stocks of exportable commodities, notably wheat. It also took steps to:
restrain domestic demand through its fiscal, monetary and price policies,
help prevent diversion of potential export goods for domestic use, and improve
competitiveness through exchange rate adjustments. In response, the value of
exports rose by 28 percent in 1978 to around $2.25 billion. But this was
below the $2.6 billion anticipated in the Standby Agreement.
21.       With these developments in foreign trade and a marginal decrease
in worker remittances over the 1977 level, current account deficit dropped
markedly tc an estimated $1.7 billion in 1978. This compares favorably to
$3.5 billion in 1977 and the $1.8 billion deficit anticipated in the Standby
Agreement. This substantial reduction, achieved mainly by severe curbing of
imports, and vigorous efforts to raise fresh medium and long-term funds along
with the rescheduling of existing debt (para. 23) led to an improved balance
of payments position. Nevertheless, the overall 1978 deficit is estimated at
about $900 million, some $150 million more than that envisaged in the Standby
Agreement. On a net basis, it was financed by $180 million in IMF drawings
(para. 22), $340 million in petroleum and Eurodollar loans, $145 million from
the Dresdner Bank scheme and the remaining $235 million from various commer-
cial banking sources.
22.       The Standby Agreemlent provided for the immediate withdrawal of about
$89 million in compensatory financing. In addition, since the Witteveen
Facility was not in operatio,n, Turkey was eligible to draw up to 150 percent
of its quol:a, amounting to about $360 million, under the Exceptional Circum-
stances clause. This entitled Turkey to withdraw $60 million in May 1978.
A further dIrawing of $48 million was made in September, following renewed
discussions between the Government and the IMF concerning short-term economic
development:s and prospects. Further discussions with the IMF to revise the
stabilizat-Lon package in light of developments since April, prior to the
release of the remaining trcnches of about $252 million, took place in
December.
23.       Since April 1978, Turkey has taken steps to cope with its large
stock of slhort-term debt ($6.5 billion at the end of 1977). The exchange rate
guarantee on new CLAs with a maturity under one year was removed, stemming new
inflows of these deposits. It also secured, from the members of the OECD
Consortium for Turkey, a rescheduling of approximately $1.2 billion in interest
and principal payments falliLng due between January 1977 and June 1979, on
public bilateral debt and private debt guaranteed by bilateral export finan-
cing agencies. The terms were 2 years grace followed by 4 years to repay for
short maturities, and 3 years grace with 5 years repayment for longer-term
maturities; the interest rates were to be negotiated bilaterally. Bilateral
agreements have now been signed with all countries concerned. However, nearly
$1 billion of unguaranteed trade debts remain to be rescheduled. Finally,
negotiations have been compLeted with some 220 commercial banks involved, to
consolidate about $3.0 billion of outstanding short-term liabilities (includ-
ing most of the CLAs, arrea-rs on CLAs, reimbursement credits and banker's
credits) into obligations with a maturity of 7 years, including 3 years of



- 8 -
grace, at an interest rate 1.75 percent above LIBOR. In view of the complexi-
ties and numbers of banks involved, progress on this was slow. But reschedul-
ing agreements are ready and are expected to be signed after the ongoing
discussions with the IMF have been completed. While all these efforts have
eased the debt servicing burden for 1978 and 1979, it will cause a substantial
bulge in debt service payments in the early 80s.
24.       Concurrently, the Government pursued new sources of medium and
long-term external finance, including the Middle East. In response to this
initiative: Germany provided program credits of $75 million and project
credits of $72 million; the US, Austria and Belgium provided program loans
totalling $70 million; Libya provided a program credit of $100 million and
another $300 million spread over five years to finance oil imports; Iran
provided a short-term credit of $150 million for oil imports; an agreement
was also signed with the Saudi Fund for $250 million in project aid; Austria,
Norway and Finland provided project credits; trade agreements were signed
with Romania, Bulgaria and U.S.S.R. Another indication of Turkey's change
of direction in seeking external financing vigorously, is the engagement for
the first time of internationally-reputed investment firms to assist in the
rescheduling exercises and the tapping of new sources of private capital in
Europe and U.S. As a first step, in conjunction with the commercial bank
rescheduling, a fresh loan of about $400 million is expected to be provided by
a group of banks, with disbursement contingent on a new Standby Agreement.
25.       The discussions begun in December 1978 between Turkey and IMF on
a revised stabilization program were interrupted because of difficulties in
reaching agreement on certain important policy issues. They have since been
resumed (see para 27). The discussions focussed on the need to continue the
austerity measures initiated in early 1978 and to strengthen efforts to cope
with excessive monetary growth, sagging SEE finances and the high inflation
rate. It is evident that progress in these areas is complementary to stricter
control of imports, tight control over short-term borrowings and the growth of
arrears, and the continuation of foreign trade policies and measures directed
to improve the balance of payments position further.
26.       Against this background, adopting the pattern followed in early
1978, the Government announced its revised stabilization program in mid-March
1979 and amplified it further in early April. To improve the financial
position of SEEs, increased prices of sugar (34 percent), iron and steel (41
percent), cement (63 percent), gasoline (84 percent), fuel oil (80 percent),
diesel fuel (82 percent) and kerosene (110 percent), were announced. These
prices are now well above their imported costs at the current rate of exchange.
The Government estimates that these increases will together, yield an addi-
tional TL 80 billion in the current Turkish fiscal year and significantly
reduce the SEE deficits, despite inflation in costs and wages (although the
latter will be restrained by new limits on the growth of SEE employment).
To ensure more effective mobilization and allocation of fiscal resources,
interest rates for both deposits and lending have been substantially augmented.
For time deposits, increased rates range from 12 percent for deposits between
6-12 months, to 24 percent for those between 3-4 years; in addition, the



-9-
repatriated savings of migrant workers will receive an interest premium of 10
percentage points (15 points for deposits above 3 years). The interest rate
for medium and long-term loans have been considerably increased:  in the
agricul.ural sector from 10.5 percent to 16 percent; for small-scale indus-
trial enterpris-s from 10.5 percent to 16 percent; and for general lending in
industrial and other sectors from 16 to 20 percent. There is no ceiling in
respect of 'Loans extended by development and investment banks using funds
acquired through the domestic bond issues of at least 5 years maturity.
However, inlerest rate rebates have been increased for export oriented enter-
prises, and for those established in the poorer areas of Turkey.
27.       To improve the balance of payments, a number of steps were taken.
The TL was devalued against the US Dollar by about 6 percent to TL 26.5 -
US$1. Pari passu, a multiple exchange rate regime was introduced for the
first time, under which a more favorable exchange rate with a premium of 40
percent (TL 37.1 = US$1) became applicable for foreign tourists, workers'
remittances and repatriated savings. This favorable rate carried an addi-
tional premLum, bringing the effective rate to TL 47.1, if transactions took
place up to May 9, and to TL 42.1 for those made between May 10 and June 9,
1979. In addition, a significant development was the creation of an officially
sanctioned, but still limited, parallel market in respect of manufactured and
mineral exports. Specifically, Turkish industrial exporters could retain 50
percent of their foreign exchange earnings and either use this to finance
their own import requirements or transfer it to other industrialists, at
whatever pr:ice it fetched. All these measures announced in April appear to go
in the desirable direction, although it was clear that further adjustments in
the exchange regime would need to be introduced in due course to correct the
over-valuatLon of the official exchange rate. In mid-April, the Managing
Director of the IMF met the Turkish Finance Minister in Zurich and agreed that
discussions on a revised standby agreement should resume as soon as possible.
An IMF miss:ion visited Turkey during late April and mid-May for this purpose.
The discuss:Lons concentrated upon the current developments and the salient
elements of the economic policies that could become the basis for a standby
agreement. While no formal aLgreement was possible, an understanding was
reached thait the negotiations should be adjourned for a short while, to allow
the OECD-sponsored pledging session to take place, and the talks should be
resumed thereafter. A successful pledging session took place in Paris on May
30, 1979. The pledges were made, subject to an early agreement on a new
Standby Agreement between Turkey and the IMF, the negotiations for which
resumed in Paris on May 31.  The various member governments pledged a total of
$661 million as special aid, and $245 million as special export credit aid to
Turkey, and are considering further rescheduling of the official bilateral
debt and guaranteed export credits to ease the debt servicing burden in coming
years. In addition, an early agreement with the rKF would also trigger the
provision of new fresh commercial bank loans of $400 million (para. 24),
besides an agreement for the rescheduling of the outstanding short-term
liabilities owed to the commercial banks by Turkey. On June 11, Turkey again
revised the multiple exchange rate system introduced in April and devalued the
TL further to TL 47.1 = US$11, with a rate of TL 35 = US$1 for oil and fertil-
izer imports and traditional agricultural exports. Other complementary
measures are expected.



- 10 -
28.       For 1979, pending agreement with the IMF, the projections of the
balance of payment can only be tentative. However, based on cautiously
optimistic assumptions concerning exports, worker remittances and capital
inflows, and taking into account the recent increases in international oil
prices, the realization of a volume of imports similar to that achieved in
1978 would entail a foreign exchange gap of about $1.5 billion.
Medium-Term Policies and Prospects
29.       The Fourth Plan was approved by the Turkish Parliament in November
1978. Its important feature is the strong emphasis on the balance of payments
and in particular, on the promotion of exports. The export thrust is one of
the cornerstones of Government's medium-term development strategy, whose
success will be crucial to the restoration and maintenance of Turkey's credit-
worthiness in the medium-term future.
30.       The Government's objective is to increase the volume of merchandise
exports by a factor of almost two and a half between 1978 and 1983. This
implies a real export growth rate averaging around 18 percent per annum during
the Plan period. This is expected to be achieved broadly, in the following
manner. The volume of agricultural exports is expected to grow at an annual
rate of 6 percent, and that of manufactured products by an average annual
rate of over 30 percent starting from about $700 million in 1978. About 40
percent of the latter is expected to come from food and beverages, textiles
and clothing, and leather products; another 40 percent from intermediate goods
such as rubber and plastics products, chemicals, cement, glass and ceramics,
and basic metals; the remaining 20 percent is expected to consist of consumer
durables, capital goods, and other products of the metal-working industries.
31.       Preliminary Bank projections suggest that the share of unprocessed
agricultural and mined products in total exports is likely to be higher than
envisaged in the Plan, and that the overall export target, though ambitious,
is feasible, provided that the present widespread commitment to export growth
continues to be translated into appropriate policies. In addition, the
Government intends to study the effects on export incentives of the existing
system of protection, with a view to making appropriate changes when the
balance of payments situation permits; and it has already begun to bring the
relative support prices of different agricultural commodities more closely
into line with relative world prices. There will also be a drive to increase
invisible exports, particularly earnings from transportation, tourism and
civil engineering contracts abroad.
32.       The other Plan targets include an average annual real GDP growth
rate of 8 percent, which seems overly optimistic, especially in view of the
3-4 percent growth rate achieved in 1978, and the prospect of a similar
performance in 1979. Efforts not to allow unemployment to increase over the
1977 level, is now - for the first time in any Plan - a specific development
objective. Real fixed investment is expected to grow at an average annual
rate of 12 percent (27 percent allocated to industry, 27 percent to energy



- 11 -
and transportation and 12 percent to agriculture). Gross domestic savings
are expected to rise from 16 to 22 percent of GNP, implying a marginal
savings ral:io of 35 percent, which seems over-optimistic in-view of the
experience of the last two Plan periods, in which the realised marginal savings
ratio was only 12 percent, largely due to poor savings performanc_ in the
public sect:or. Significantly, in the Fourth Plan, the main contributor to
the rapid growth of savings is expected to be the public sector, whose reve-
nues are expected to increase in real terms at an average annual rate of 12
percent, compared with a real growth rate of 9 percent for public consumption.
Possible Outlook for the Future
33.       If the export drive is successful and imports are appropriately
restrained, and assuming significant growth of workers' remittances as a
result of the recent exchange rate changes and interest rates for remittances,
it should be possible, despite the increasing burden of interest charges on
rescheduled debts, to keep the balance of payments current account deficit to
an average of about $1.5 billion dollars per year during the Plan period. To
finance suc:h deficits and amortize the considerable external debt, it will
also be necessary for Turkey to continue its efforts to achieve a much higher
level of medium and long-term borrowing than in the past, both in commitment
and disbursement terms. But this depends on the assessment of Turkey's
creditworthiness, which in turn hinges on a successful export effort and
careful debt management.
34.       I'he extensive short-term borrowing of 1975-77 greatly increased
Turkey's external debt, adversely affected its previously rather attractive
maturity structure, and caused a sharp rise in debt service payments. At
the end of 1978, total external indebtedness amounted to approximately $13
billion. Of this, $5.5 billion was medium and long-term debt. About one-
fourth of it was held by international organizations, mainly the Bank ($836
million, plus $842 million committed but undisbursed) and the European Invest-
ment Bank; and about one-half by foreign governments and government agencies,
notably those of the United States, Germany, Canada and the Soviet Union.
The remaining $7.5 billion consisted of short-term liabilities of various
sorts. If the consolidation arrangements finalized with the commercial banks
and creditor countries are fully implemented, about $4.1 billion of short-term
debt will be converted into medium and long-term debt. To summarize, these
consolidations consist of: (a) about $3.0 billion to be rescheduled by
commercial banks (para. 23); (b) guaranteed suppliers credits of about $700
million under the terms of t]he OECD sponsored agreement of May 1978 (para.
23); (c) another $100 million of short-term credits to be refinanced by CMEA
countries; and (d) refinancing of $350 million of oil credit owed to Iraq.
35.       Turkey's debt management initiatives should help restore a more
attractive maturity structure to the external debt, by transforming a good
portion of the short-term liabilities into medium-term obligations. However,
a relatively high debt service ratio over the medium-term must be anticipated
as a result of the large short-term debts and the rather hard terms available



- 12 -
to Turkey. In 1977, debt service payments, including interest on short-term
debt, amounted to 20.2 percent of exports of goods, non-factor services and
workers' remittances. In 1978, after making allowance for the rescheduled
service payments, this ratio is estimated to have risen to around 25 percent.
In subsequent years it will increase further, since Turkey has to take on
new borrowings to maintain sound economic growth. Taking these factors into
account, the debt service ratio is likely to peak in the early 1980s to a high
level of about 40 percent, before it begins to decline. This, however, should
represent the culmination of the financial consequences of the present crisis
and should be manageable, provided the export drive is sustained. Thus,
although the balance of payments situation will remain tight in the medium-
term future, given sound economic and fiscal policies and careful debt man-
agement which the present Government shows determination to pursue, Turkey
continues to have a substantial capacity to service long-term borrowing, and
remains creditworthy for such financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
36.       Prior to 1970, Bank Group assistance was limited and intermittent.
However, the success of Turkey's 1970 stabilization program, permitted larger
and continuing lending. To date, the Bank/IDA have lent $1,814 million for
54 projects. Agriculture accounts for 28 percent of the funds lent, indus-
try and DFCs for 37 percent, power for 21 percent and urban development,
transportation, education and tourism for the rest. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
April 30, 1979, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
37.       Implementation of private sector projects has been satisfactory.
But in the public sector, political uncertainty, limited coordination among
agencies and staffing problems have resulted in uneven and delayed project
implementation. Therefore, a system of joint project reviews between Turkey
and the Bank was instituted in June 1975. Since up to end 1977, these resulted
in modest improvements, the situation was reviewed with the new Ecevit Govern-
ment in March 1978, and further discussed during my visit in April 1978.
Subsequently, Turkey established a new high-level coordination team for Bank
projects. This team set up procedures for monitoring and achieving realistic
implementation and disbursement targets, and reviewed possible changes in
sector policy covenants which because of Turkish laws and practices con-
strained effective project performance. As of January 31, 1979, disbursements
increased to 72 percent of appraisal estimates against 51 percent in June
1975. The encouraging progress and constructive cooperation which has
now become manifest allow cautious optimism that performance will gradually
improve further, permitting expansion of the Bank's lending.
38.       Bank lending is now aimed at supporting Turkey's efforts to improve
its: (a) capacity to earn or save foreign exchange, through promotion of
industrial and agro-industrial exports; (b) income distribution, employment



- 13 -
opportunities and living standards, through rural and urban development; (c)
lagging public sector savings, through the encouragement of improved manage-
ment and financing of the investments of key SEEs; and (d) infrastructure
posing bottlenecks for development. The Bank has begun discussions with the
Government on 1)w its lending can best contribute to the new Plan's objectives,
especially export promotion, without being handicapped by past policy and
institutional obstacles. Meanwhile, agriculture and industry remain the key
sectors for lending. In agriculture, projects emphasize livestock, rural
development, agricultural credit and exports; in industry (including DFCs),
the emphasis is on promotion of exports and employment, as also the gradual
strengthening of the SEEs. Projects for urban development, public utilities
and transportation supplement: these efforts.
39.       A Program Loan and the Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery Engineering
loan were approved in November 1978. The other project being presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year will assist ports rehabilitation. Proj-
ects being processed for the next two years include the second fruit and
vegetable, Erzurum rural development, the fifth livestock, a thirteenth loan
operation for TSKB, private and public sector textiles rationalization, and
fertilizer,-production projeclts, besides those for alleviation of air pollution
in Ankara (an engineering loan), transport and sewerage development in Istanbul,
secondary oil recovery and employment. In addition, the exceptional economic
circumstances being faced by Turkey, require further support for the financing
of critical imports. The early conclusion of a new Standby Arrangement with
the IMF and its effective implementation, and the creditable performance under
the first program loan, would enable us to consider a second program loan in
FY80.
40.       At the end of 1978, the Bank Group's share of Turkey's medium and
long-term external debt (outstanding and disbursed) was 15 percent. Its share
of estimated total external debt (including short-term obligations) was about
7 percent. The gradual conversion of much of the short-term debt into medium
and long-term debt, will cause the Bank's share of medium and long-term debt
to fall sharply to around 10 percent by 1980. Thereafter, assuming the cur-
rently projected increase in Bank lending, the share would increase. The
Bank's share of service payments on medium and long-term debt is expected to
follow a similar path, droppLng from 12 percent in 1977 to about 8 percent in
1980, but rising thereafter.
41.       IFC has invested in the production of synthetic yarns, pulp and
paper, glass, aluminum, iron and steel products, motor bicycle engines, piston
rings and cylinder liners, and tourism. It has also invested in TSKB. As of
April 30, 1979, gross IFC coimmitments totalled $206 million, of which $105
million were still held by I'FC. In March 1979, IFC approved a $31 million
loan (of which $11 million for a participant) and $4 million equity investment
in an export-oriented glass project. Additional investment opportunities are
being pursued.



- 14 -
PART III - THE WIEAT SUB-SECTOR, THE BENEFICIARY,
AND GRAIN STORAGE NEEDS
Past Wheat Production, Consumption, and Exports
42.       Wheat is Turkey's main staple food crop and constitutes about
two-thirds of all cereal production. It has long been Government policy to
encourage wheat production towards self-sufficiency and ensure supplies to
domestic consumers at stable prices. From the late 40's to the late 50's,
wheat production increased erratically, but at more than 5 percent per year
on average, in response to rapidly expanded plantings (mainly in rainfed
areas), despite low and fluctuating productivity that averaged under 1,000
kg/ha. From the late 50's to the early 70's, productivity became more stable
and increased gradually, but the average rate of growth of output dropped to
about 2 percent because of much slower expansion of wheat acreage.
43.       In the 1970's, growth of production has accelerated again, to over 5
percent per year, largely because of increased productivity, which has reached
an average of over 1,400 kg/ha. This is attributable to much higher levels of
inputs and four consecutive years of favorable weather beginning in 1975.
Wheat acreage also has continued to expand at about 1 percent per year. This
pattern has resulted since 1975 in production that for the first time has on a
sustained basis exceeded domestic demand, estimated to have been annually
averaging about 13 million tons. Thus in 1975-78, output averaged well over
15 million tons and enabled Turkey to export wheat for the first time. Such
exports reached 1.5 million tons in the 1977-78 crop year.
Price Support Policies
44.       The continuing rise in production has been encouraged by the Govern-
ment's wheat support price program as well as by subsidies on input prices
and credit. These have enabled large numbers of farmers to use improved
seeds, fertilizers and farm chemicals and to increase the area in wheat
through mechanization. The Government's SEE for grain marketing, the Soils
Products Office (Toprak Mahsulleri Ofisi--TMO) has had insufficient permanent
storage capacity to cope with the resulting surpluses. Large amounts of wheat
have had to be stored in the open with only a covering of polyethelene,
straw, and soil. At the end of 1977, for instance, some 5 million tons of
grain were left in the open, with consequent substantial losses. In addition,
the wheat price support program has led to considerable losses for TMO.
Buying prices set high enough to encourage production have often been substan-
tially higher than international prices at the current exchange rate, thereby
hampering exports. Selling prices have been fixed about 10 percent below
buying prices to benefit consumers, mainly in the urban areas.
45.       Against this background, the Government requested a UNDP-financed
FAO study of the price support program, which was completed last year. The
study concluded that, while the price support program had increased the level
and stability of producers' incomes and encouraged increased production,



- 15 -
certain undesirable features were also contributing to the problems noted in
paragraph 44 and to the already strong inflationary pressure in the economy.
For example, the study foun(d that support prices were determined mainly by
adding a fixed percentage to the costs of production of each commodity, with
little attention paid to the market prospects or the relative price levels
between conmodities; and support prices have usually been announced so late
in the production year that they have only affected the subsequent year's
plantings and inputs.  As a result, support prices have tended to be increased
for those commodities (such as wheat) having relatively high input costs, with
the higher prices further encouraging increased use of inputs. The subsidized
inputs themselves have thereby not been adequately directed towards the
production of crops with comparative (or export) advantage.
46.       The FAO study recommends a number of specific reforms including an
annual late-summer Government review to define production targets for the
coming year for all major agricultural products (including livestock), estab-
lish corre!sponding input and credit needs, and determine a balanced set of
support prices to achieve production targets and implement the Government's
farm incomes policy. In line with this, a unit has recently been established
in the Ministry of Agriculture to undertake production planning studies and
make price policy recommendations in the framework of an agricultural land-
use strategy.
The Place of Wheat in Land-Use Patterns
47.       The Bank's Agricultural Sector Survey for Turkey (Report No. 1684-TU)
points out that over the past 50 years, Turkey's total crop area has more than
tripled, but that now the possibilities for expansion are becoming exhausted.
The more recent additions have been largely former grazing lands of much
lower productivity. This has led to extensive plowing of steep hillsides,
much of it for wheat, severe over-grazing of the remaining grazing lands and
destruction of vegetation on large tracts of previously forested land.  A
study completed in 1974 by TOPRAKSU (the General Directorate of Land and Water
Resources of the Ministry of Village Affairs) estimated that more than 17
million ha of the total land area of 78 million ha (of which, in 1975, 28
million ha were cropped and 26 million ha meadow and pasture) were used
inappropriately, most seriously in rainfed areas. Incentives have led to
wheat being planted on lands better suited for barley; barley in turn has been
pushed onto land best left in pasture. An estimated 54 percent of the total
land area is subject to severe erosion, of which 17 percent is classified as
very severe. Aside from erosion control in the forest regions, afforestation
and irrigation, little is being done to correct the misuse of land or to
arrest the trend of accelerating erosion.
48.       A major effect of land misuse is the loss of potential production
and income, the latter affecting particularly the lower-income farmers.
The most serious long-term effects are evident in livestock productivity.
Increases in feed resources from wheat stubble and fallow have been more than
offset by the long-term decline in available grazing land (down 2.3 percent
per year since the mid-fifties) and by increased numbers of animals. As a



- 16 -
result, from 1963 to 1975 the average adult cattle carcass weight declined
from 90 kg to 78 kg and the proportion of immature cattle slaughtered
increased sharply.
49.       The TOPRAKSU study concluded that about 17.4 million ha should be
shifted from their present uses (mostly rainfed cropping - 12.4 million ha)
to irrigation, grazing, orchards and forests. With such shifts during the
next decade, an annual rate of growth of 5 percent in forage production is
believed feasible, which, if properly managed as encouraged under Bank-financed
livestock projects, could yield an average growth rate of red meat production
of more than 5 percent per year. It is estimated that by the withdrawal of
marginal wheat land, the area in wheat production could be reduced by about
1.4 million ha, from the 1976 level of 9.2 million ha to the 1962-64 average
of about 7.8 million ha. This would still be sufficient acreage through 1987
to meet projected domestic demand in average crop years by wider use of
irrigated land or wider diffusion of improved production practices in rainfed
areas.
50.       As detailed as the TOPRAKSU studies were, however, more analysis
is needed. Some of the land-use recommendations should be reexamined, for
example, the targets for land to be irrigated. There is need for study of
viable alternatives to the present cropping patterns and farming practices
of subsistence farmers and for more information on the costs of present poli-
cies in terms of lost future production. There is also need for an evaluation
of the effect of Turkey's input subsidy and producer price support programs on
land-use patterns and of these programs together with the consumer price sub-
sidies on the national budget. The Project provides for such a study, based
on agreed terms of reference and to be undertaken by the recently created unit
in the Ministry of Agriculture (para 46) assisted by internationally recruited
consultants. The study will be started on or before January 31, 1980, and be
completed by November 30, 1980. The Government will prepare by September 30,
1981, an action plan to carry out and encourage improvements in the use of
agricultural lands and in price support and input subsidy programs and after
an exchange of views with the Bank promptly implement the plan (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.02).
Future Wheat Production
51.       Depending on the nature of possible future revisions of the Govern-
ment's cereals price support program, land-use strategies and input subsidies,
one can probably expect a continued increase in wheat production for several
years to come, ranging from modest to substantial. The widely established use
of improved seeds, fertilizers and farming machinery in wheat production is
spreading to less advanced areas of the country. Wheat is now grown in more
irrigated land as well as in favorable dry lands in Thrace, not traditionally
a major wheat-producing region. Besides self-sufficiency in wheat, Govern-
ment policy is also to keep wheat exports at about 2 to 2.5 million tons
p.a. Approximate self-sufficiency and a moderate export surplus provide a
plausible range for future production trends and grain storage requirements.
Domestic consumption is projected to grow at about 2 percent per year, some-
what less than the current estimated 2.6 percent rate of growth of population,



- 17 -
and a reflection of a propensity to consume less wheat as income rises. On
this basis, total consumption is expected to rise from the 1968-77 average of
13 million tons to about 16.8 million tons in 1985. A return to the 1965-74
3-percent growth rate of wheat production, after the more rapid growth in
1975-77, would raise output to 19.4 million tons in 1985, and give an esti-
mated export surplus of 2.6 million tons. Future production of cereals other
than wheat is less predictable, but they are largely not marketed, and TMO's
role is limited.
Private Sector Wheat Marketing
52.       About 50-60 percent of total cereals production is consumed on the
farm or in nearby villages. About one-half of the remainder, mainly wheat,
is marketed privately and half by TMO under its legal obligation to buy any
quantities offered. TMO's wheat must be milled at an extraction rate of at
least 90 percent, and the flour, bread and other end products are sold at
controlled prices. Privately-marketed wheat is used for white bread and other
high quality bakery products, whose prices are not controlled. Millers obtain
most of their free market wlheat supplies directly from producers, generally
larger farmers who can hold grain on their farms for better prices than those
offered by TMO, or farmers who will sell slightly below the TMO price to avoid
the usual delay in crowded TMO depots at harvest time. Under the Project, it
is assumed. that, despite Turkey's economic difficulties, investment by the
private sector in storage grain capacity will keep pace with the growth of
wheat production. Accordingly, the proposed project has been designed on the
premise that TMO's share of wheat marketing will not rise above its present
approximate level of 50 percent of the organized market and 25 percent of
total wheat output.
The Major Beneficiary--TMO
53.       TMO, established in 1938 as an SEE under the Ministry of Food,
Agriculture, and Livestock, has the responsibility for public sector cereals
marketing.  Its essential functions are to:  buy from producers any quantities
offered at official prices (set annually by the Council of Ministers); store
grain for later sales and for national reserve requirements; supply approved
users (private flour mills in municipalities at a level of 10 kg per month per
head of population, armed forces, etc.); thereafter, sell in the open market
for the purpose of stabilizing prices; and, as the sole entity authorized to
do so, import or export as may be appropriate.  Directed by a Government-
appointed Board of Directors, TMO's staff of about 8,000 operate a central
office in Ankara, nine regional offices, 220 local buying offices in produc-
tion areas and a number of temporary buying points.
54.       TMO's marketing operations have been financed by short-term funds
from the Central Bank at 1.25 percent interest and by interest-free loans
from the Treasury. As a result of Government pricing policy (para. 44), TMO's
wheat sales to municipalit-ies have resulted in substantial trading losses in
recent years. These losses are reimbursed by the Treasury through subsidies,
which totalled over TL 2.1 billion in 1974, declining to TL 118 million in



- 18 -
1976 and again rising to about TL 1.4 billion in 1977. TMO's wheat sales on
the free market, which form a relatively small share of total sales, have been
generally profitable.
55.       TMO's authorized capital was increased from TL 600 million to TL 1.4
billion in 1971, but paid-in capital still remains at TL 600 million despite
the great increase in TMO's volume of grain trading. New storage under con-
struction totalling 530,000 tons is being financed by a long-term loan from
the Government. To improve TMO's capital structure and provide adequate
initial local resources for project implementation, agreement was reached
that the Government will increase TMO's paid-in capital to TL 700 million as a
condition of effectiveness, and to TL 1.4 billion by December 31, 1980 (Loan
Agreement, Sections 3.04 and 6.01(c)).
56.       Grain is normally brought to TMO buying points by farmers for pay-
ment on delivery. Since TMO's prices are fixed for the entire season, pro-
ducers normally have no interest in delaying delivery after harvest. Virtually
all purchasing in a particular area is, therefore, completed within two
months, resulting in congestion at TMO delivery points. One of the wheat
pricing reforms that the Government and TMO may wish to consider (para. 50)
would be a premium for late-season sale by farmers to ease this congestion.
Under its obligation to municipalities, TMO sells its wheat to millers, who
then sell the flour to bakeries. Like the farmers, the millers tend to time
their wheat transactions with TMO to maximize their reliance on TMO storage
capacity rather than increase their own. Within the constraints of the
Government's wheat pricing program, TMO has generally discharged its domestic
wheat buying and selling responsibilities effectively, and has also capably
arranged large-scale temporary storage for Turkey's sudden wheat surpluses.
57.       Until 1974, Turkey was importing wheat in most years, and TMO
handled all import operations up to delivery to millers. In 1976, TMO began
to export and delivered 2.5 million tons in 18 months up to the end of 1978;
based on existing stocks and another bumper crop in 1978, export shipments on
a comparable scale are expected to continue in 1979. However, as a result of
the Government's wheat pricing policies and TMO's inexperience in exports,
Turkey has thus far had to accept selling prices well below those obtained by
established exporting countries, and some of Turkey's wheat exports have
incurred losses. Sales terms should improve as a result of the storage and
transport designs proposed under the project, which will enable TMO to attain
stricter standards of quality and more regular and punctual deliveries.  Wheat
pricing policy reforms (para. 50) are also expected to abet exports. For the
period of the proposed Project (through 1985), it has been assumed that TMO
will export around 2.5 million tons annually.
TMO Grain Storage Requirements
58.       The above background on TMO's role in wheat transactions can be
summarized as follows:



- 19 -
Sales
Crop Year      Purchases      Domestic      Export      Year-End Stock
--------------------------- ('000 tons) --------------------------
1974/75            793         1,675             -             327
1975/76          2,468         1,071             1           1,638
1976/77          3,129         1,489          125            3,088
1977/78          3,589         1,800 est.  1,500 est.        3,377 est.
In contrast with TMO's estimated 1977-78 year-end wheat stocks of over 3.3
million tons, TMO's existing permanent storage capacity totals only 1.6 mil-
lion tons. Thus at least about 1.7 million tons of wheat has had to be held
over to the 1978-79 crop year in open-air temporary storage. During the
1977-78 crop marketing year TMO had to handle over 6.5 million tons of wheat
(carryover stocks plus new purchases), most of it stored in the open-air for
extended periods before being sold. TMO's permanent storage capacity is
expected to rise slightly by the end of 1979 when 500,000 tons of obsolete
capacity are scheduled to be replaced by 530,000 tons of horizontal warehouses
now under construction. In view of anticipated total wheat production in 1985
of 19.4 million tons, and a TMO marketing share not exceeding about 25 percent,
TMO's purchases that year are projected at 4.5 million tons. Of this, 2.0
million tons would be for domestic sale and 2.5 million tons for export.
Alternatively, should wheat production in 1985 only reach the projected
domestic consumption level of 16.8 million tons (output exceeded 16 million
tons in both 1976 and 1977), TMO purchases are still likely to be at least 4
million tons.
59.       To enable TMO to effectively manage annual wheat marketings of
between 4 and 4.5 million tons by 1985, the estimated requirement for per-
manent grain storage capacity is 3.6 million tons. This represents a need
for 2 million tons of new capacity and would still leave much grain in open
storage in the dry interior of Anatolia. The proposed project will meet
nearly half of that requirement in a first-phase program to provide 860,000
tons of inland silos and 50,000 tons of port silos. A second stage project,
tentatively envisaged around FY82, would take account of any changes in
projected requirements thalt might result from revised wheat pricing policies
and the land-use study. The proposed project was analyzed in a simulation
model to determine its sensitivity to variations in future production, con-
sumption, TMO purchases and sales and their effect on storage utilization,
losses, exports, and imports. A brief description of the model and a summary
of the results are contained in the SAR. The results of the model analysis
indicate that, without the Project, the amount of grain in open storage and
resulting losses would grow at an extremely rapid rate; the need for addi-
tional storage is evident. With the Project, using the baseline estimate of
wheat production (19.4 million tons by 1985), turnover rates of 1 to 1.7 for
inland silos (depending on type and location), and port turnover capability
of 8, there is less than a one-percent chance that the port facilities will
not be used at their maximum capacity. If the wheat production growth rate
is projected more conservatively at 2.2 percent per annum (the average for
1962-74), there is still less than a one percent chance that the project
storage will not be fully utilized.



- 20 -
Transportation of TMO Wheat
60.       Between 1975 and 1977, the share of TMO wheat shipped by road to
the main consuming centers and export harbors increased to more than 50 per-
cent of the total. The share of rail declined from 39 percent to 31 percent
and that of coastal shipping increased from 12 percent to 15 percent. This
pattern reflects several factors. First, a significant proportion of wheat
is grown in the interior at considerable distances from rail lines and is
purchased and stored by TMO at locations served only by road. Second, the
Turkish State Railways (TCDD) are only able to offer box-cars for wheat
transport, and that too in inadequate numbers, which results in costly
handling, delays and high wheat loss rates. Third, TMO's wheat-stock
information system and communications network with field offices is inade-
quate; TCDD and TMO have not succeeded in working out effective procedures for
planning the availability, loading and movement of box-cars; and unit trains
have only just begun to be experimented with. Fourth, TCDD's freight rates
for wheat on more congested routes have been more than 50 percent higher than
on routes with spare capacity, and there appears to have been little tapering
of rates for longer hauls. In 1978, TCDD's average wheat transport revenue
(based on-box-cars) was TL 0.63 per ton-km, with an average economic cost of
TL 0.72 per ton-km, compared to trucking rates, which do taper, of TL 0.6-0.8
per ton-km for hauls over 600 km. Thus, the normally expected cost advantage
of rail over road for long-distance bulk haulage (e.g., Konya wheat areas to
Izmir port) has been greatly reduced and perhaps offset by the flexibility,
convenience, and entrepreneurship of private truck transport.
61.       Despite these circumstances, there is potential for increasing
the overall cost-effectiveness and economy of TMO's wheat transport through
upgrading and expanding the use of rail service. The proposed Project pro-
vides for the manufacture of 300 hopper wagons, each with a net capacity of
60 tons, to be used exclusively for grain transport. It is estimated that
with improved planning and management, supported by an improved communications
system provided under the Project, block or unit trains can be run on the four
or five main long distance grain routes at an economic cost of TL 0.46 per
ton-km. This would be made possible by special operating procedures to be
agreed on between TMO and TCDD (TMO Project Agreement, Section 2.08; TCDD
Project Agreement, Section 2.04) aimed at reducing TCDD's average wagon
turnaround time from 8.5 to 4 days. This represents an annual grain-haul
capacity of 1.5 million tons, compared to TCDD's box-car haulage of 1.6
million tons in 1977.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
62.       A UNDP project, executed by FAO in 1975-76, produced a Master Plan
for the grain storage needs of TMO up to 1980. The Master Plan initially
recommended the construction of 1.7 million tons of storage and the expansion



- 21 -
of the silos at the port of Izmir to 55,000 tons. The Government expressed
interest in Bank financing for such facilities, and an FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program (CP) mission visited Turkey in October 1976. By then, however, TMO's
storage problem had become so acute that the Government itself financed con-
struction of ali initial 530,000 tons of capacity. In late 1977, the Govern-
ment and TMO expressed renewed interest in Bank financing for TMO's additional
storage requirements. A CP mission visited Turkey during May 1978. Its
report in August 1978 formed the basis of the appraisal by the Bank in October
1978. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in April 1978 with a delega-
tion, which was led by Mr. Alaeddin Yoruk, Financial Counselor of the Turkish
Embassy.
The Projeci:
63.       The proposed Project is designed to gradually improve TMO's capacity
to store and market grains domestically and for export, besides fostering the
introduction of institutional improvements in the wheat subsector, including
an assessmient of Turkey's agricultural subsidy program and land-use strategy
to encourage more rational production goals. It includes the following
components:
(a) construction of 860,000 tons of inland and 50,000 tons
of port storage facilities;
(b) improvements of siLlos at two existing ports;
(c)  improvement in grain transport by the provision of 300 rail
hopper wagons;
(d)  engineering design and construction supervision over all
grain storage fac:ilities;
(e) improvement in TMO's processing of key management data,
communications beltween offices, and training of silo
managers and stafE; and
(f) A study of Turkey's land-use strategies with special reference
to wheat and other food grains and the effects of the agricul-
tural price and input subsidy programs.
The details, provided in the- Loan and Project Summary and in the Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Turkey Grain Storage Project" (2429a-TU) dated
May 24, 1979 and distributed separately to the Executive Directors, are
summarized below.
64.       Inland Silos.  Thirty-six inland grain silos ranging from 20,000
to 60,000 tons capacity would be built in seven regions; tonnages have been
allocated on the basis of a computer analysis of stock movement projections
among these regions. Agreement was reached that the silos will be built
according to the types and locations indicated in the Loan Agreement,



- 22 -
Schedule 2. Included are thirty inland silos of 20,000 tons, five of 40,000
tons, and one of 60,000 tons. Of these, twenty-one silos totalling 660,000
tons will have rail loading facilities. All the silos will be vertical with
reinforced concrete construction (TMO Project Agreement, Section 2.05(a));
their costs are comparable to those of horizontal warehouses when operating
costs and storage losses are taken into account. In vertical silos, separat-
ing, blending, treating, and monitoring of grain varieties is easier; gravity
flow makes handling simpler; aeration and dust control are facilitated; and
less ground space is required for the same amount of storage capacity.
65.       Port Silos.  Since the Government plans only a moderate wheat export
trade, only 50,000 tons of additional port storage capacity is proposed under
the project--two new silos at Tekirdag and Iskenderun--together with minor
improvements to two existing port silos at Haydarpasa (Istanbul) and Izmir.
With the increase in back-up inland silos along the railways, the provision of
grain rail hopper wagons, and improvement of TMO communications, overall port
silo turnover should easily reach 8, compared to an average of 5.5 at grain
export ports in 1977-78. This should allow existing port silos and those
provided under the Project to adequately handle projected grain exports.
66.       Grain from the surplus-producing Thrace area is stored at the
Marmara sea port of Tekirdag, where it is currently processed through outmoded
silos. Under the Project, an export silo will be built at the present loca-
tion of TMO's facilities. If a proposed new port about two miles away, where
a much larger installation would be appropriate, is built, the proposed proj-
ect silo will be used for loading coasters and barges. The proposed 30,000-
ton silo will receive grain through two hydraulic truck dumpers and will load
grain out through a belt conveyor to a gallery above a Government-owned jetty.
The Government will ensure that the jetty will be able to support the gallery
before the silo is actually built (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03). The present
silo at Iskenderun on the Mediterranean Sea has a capacity of 20,000 tons and
is used for loading grain into ships berthed at an adjacent jetty operated by
the TCDD. An additional silo of 20,000 tons will be provided to increase the
available stocks (surge capacity) to expedite loading out whenever TMO is
allowed use of the jetty. Future port plans for Iskenderun include a new port
elevator; if this comes into being, the proposed silo will be used for loading
coastal vessels. In Haydarpasa and Izmir, manual truck unloading will be
replaced by hydraulic truck dumps and related equipment at existing silos.
67.       Rail Hopper Wagons.  Assuming turnaround time of 3 to 5 days and
the operation of unit trains, it is estimated that about 650 fast-loading
60-ton grain rail hopper wagons will be needed to service the requirements of
TMO by 1985. The Project provides finance for 300 wagons as a first tranche.
The wagons will be manufactured, owned, operated and maintained by TCDD. The
design of the wagons and procedures for their efficient and exclusive use
satisfactory to the Bank will be agreed on between TMO and TCDD (TCDD Project
Agreement, Sections 2.02, 2.04, and 2.07). At least 150 wagons will be put
into operation by TCDD not later than December 31, 1980, and the balance in
the following 12 months (TCDD Project Agreement, Section 2.03).



- 23 -
68.       TMO Organizational Improvements and Training.  TMO's basic organiza-
tional structure is satisfactory for carrying out the project. TMO's staff
is also generally satisfactory, both in its educational background and its
professional experience. Holwever, to support more efficient use of silos
and transport of wheat, TMO needs improvement of its communicaticas system.
The Project provides for acquisition of equipment to modernize TMO's computer
and telex communications system to improve stock management, together with
short-term consultant services to help design and set up the system and
organize training of TMO personnel.
69.       Training programs are also provided for grain marketing, including
quality control, transport, processing, and export, and in silo management
and operations. Instruction will be provided by TMO staff supplemented by
international consultants on specific topics. The training program will be
prepared by TMO and agreed with the Bank (TMO Project Agreement, Section 2.07).
70.       Study.  An evaluation of Turkey's land-use strategies and the effect
thereon and on the national budget of farm price support and input subsidy
programs will be carried out under the responsibility of the Ministry of Food,
Agriculture, and Livestock (para 50).
Project Cost and Financing
71.       I'he estimated total cost is $206 million equivalent (including
physical ccontingency of US$12 million and price contingency of US$74 million).
Of this, about $85 million, or 41 percent is in direct foreign exchange,
which will be fully covered by the proposed loan. Indirect foreign exchange
costs (for rail hopper wagons) total $4 million. Aside from US$0.2 million,
which will be used by the Ministry of Agriculture for the Study, a total of
$81.8 million of the Bank's loan will be onlent to TMO and $3.0 million to
TCDD at an interest rate no less than that of the Bank loan (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.01(c)). In addition to its own contribution of $0.1 million equiv-
alent to the Study and the equity payments of TL 0.8 billion (para 55), the
Government will provide the balance of the funds required by TMO and TCDD in
the form of loans at interest rates no less than that charged on the Bank loan
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)).
Project Implementation
72.       TMO will implement the construction of new silos and improvements to
existing port silos as well as improvements to the TMO organization itself.
Consultants totalling about 400 man-months at an estimated cost of $10,000 per
month will be employed in accordance with Bank guidelines, on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank, for the detailed design and engineering of all
the grain storage facilities, preparation of the technical aspects of bid
requests and contract awards, and supervision of silo construction (TMO Proj-
ect Agreement, Section 2.02). Internationally recruited consultants will also
be retained for improvement of TMO's data processing and communications system
(TMO Project Agreement, Section 2.02). Engineering study and design and the
contract award process will take about 15 months and the subsequent actual
construction, about 3 years; altogether, about 4-1/2 years. The 300 hopper



- 24 -
wagons will be built during the first 2 years of the Project (para. 67). TCDD
will build the wagons in their workshops. The shops are efficient and produce
rolling stock of satisfactory quality (over 1,000 wagons in 1977) at prices
similar to those of imported wagons (after allowing for insurance and freight)
from USA and India and at a higher cost (20 percent) than those from France and
Germany. Overall, the Project should be completed in 5 years.
73.       TMO will keep detailed records of grain movements at Project silos
and operating costs to help measure benefits of new and rehabilitated silos
(TMO Project Agreement, Section 4.01). These data will also help assess a
possible second storage project. The formats for reports to the Bank have
been agreed on between the Bank and TMO.
Procurement and Disbursements
74.       Contracts for the construction of new and improvement of existing
silos will be awarded through international competitive bidding (ICB) on a
turn-key basis. Whenever possible, contracts will be grouped in order to
attract foreign competition; pre-qualification of bidders will be required.
No bid requests can be made by TMO in respect of inland and port silos unless
TMO has a clear ownership title or a valid lease of not less than 50 years
usufruct on the land on which a silo would be built. Turkish law prohibits
the purchase of finished railway wagons; however, imported parts for manufac-
ture of hopper wagons in TCDD workshops will be bulked as much as practicable
and will be procured through ICB (TCDD Project Agreement, Procurement Schedule,
Para A.3). The proposed loan will be disbursed on account of the various
Project components as follows: design and engineering, improvements to TMO
organization--100 percent of foreign expenditures; inland and port silos--50
percent of total expenditures; improvements to port silos--70 percent of total
expenditures; study--100 percent of total expenditures; and manufacture of
rail hopper wagons--100 percent of foreign expenditures on parts imported by
TCDD. The proposed loan would be disbursed in five years.
Benefits and Risks
75.       Loss and deterioration of grain will be substantially reduced, as
average stocks in open storage under the Project will be limited to an esti-
mated 2-3 million tons in 1985, compared to about six million tons without
the Project. Operating costs will be reduced by the introduction of direct-
loading grain rail hopper wagons, which will eliminate the need for contract
labor in loading and unloading operations. Project construction will provide
an estimated 3,100 man-years of unskilled employment over about four years.
However, the Project's automated storage and handling operations will, during
the first ten years of operations, result in an estimated net decrease of
1,800 man-years in annual unskilled labor requirements. Since much of the
labor contracted for open storage and handling operations is part time, at
least twice this number of persons could be affected. Skilled labor require-
ments for silo operations will rise an estimated 150-200 man-years. Without
the Project, TMO's export capability would remain below the average normal
exportable surplus, TMO thereby losing or deferring foreign exchange earnings
and incurring higher total storage costs. Under the Project, wheat exports
will yield added foreign exchange earnings estimated at $14 million per year.
The internal economic rate of return is estimated at 21 percent. A 20 percent



- 25 -
devaluation against the U.S. dollar, holding all costs and benefits at con-
stant 1978 price levels, would increase investment costs by about 8 percent,
and the benefit stream by about twice that level, raising the rate of return
by about 1 percent.
76.       The risk of underutilization of Project storage capacity appears
small. A deliberately cautious approach has been adopted in respect of
port storage on the assumption that existing capacity should be adequate to
handle projected exports if turnover could be raised to a plausibly moderate
level; other components of thLe Project are designed to ensure that this can
be achieved. Even in the unlikely event that Turkey failed to maintain any
export capability, the risk of underutilization of Project silos would be
low: total inland capacity with the Project (assuming elimination of obsolete
storage) would still be only 2.5 million tons, and Project port silos could
be used either for imports or to supplement inland storage capacity.  The
majority of the inland silos are designated for areas with large net produc-
tion surpluses which would continue to require storage and redistribution to
deficit regions even if there were no net national exportable surplus. Other
key silos are designed to provide holding storage to meet demand in large
urban centers nearby. Should the Government's agricultural incentives be
redirected Erom wheat production towards greater priority for livestock, there
would be a compensating storage requirement for feedgrains.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and TMO and TCDD, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Special conditions of effectiveness would be the authorization
and ratification of the execution of the Project Agreements; and payment to
TMO of TL 100 million of equity (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.       1. recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 13, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-26-                                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLe 3A
TURKEY - SOClAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RfRZECE GROUPS (AJUSTED AVEAgES
LAND ARU  (TOUSAND SQ. 1)-ST1  Z) 
TOTAL           750.6                             S                                      n    nuir
AGRICULTURAL    558.4                              NOST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOHE       INCOKE
1960 Lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP e
CNP PER CAPITA (US$)               280.0       510.0   1110.0          1898.8     867.2      1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGMS O COAL EQUIVALENT)    245.0-       479.0    630.0          1869.3      578.3     1525.0
POPULATION AD VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL PoPULATION, MID-YA
(MILLIONS)                      27.8       35.6      42.2
UUU POPULATIa (PRCENT OF TOTAL) 31.9         38.7      42.6           43.0       46.2       52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER sQ. xK.                     35.0        46.0     54.0           81.4       50.8        27.6
PER SQ. xx. AGRICULTURAL LAND    52.0       65.0     76.0           135.2      93.3       116.4
POPULATICN ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       41.3       41.7      41.7           26.2       42.9       34.8
15-64 YRS.                       55.2       54.0      53.9           63.4       53.5       56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 3.5        4.3       4.4            9.9        3.5        5.7
POPULATION GROIdT RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            3.0         2.5      2.5            0.8        2.5        1.6
URBAN                            5.1 /f     4.9 a    4.2             2.2       .4.7        3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    44.8      40.6      39.4            19.2      37.8       27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    16.9      14.4      12.5            9.0       10.8        9.9
GLOSS REPRODUCTION RATE            2.9        2.6       2.3            1.3        2.5        1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..       65.6      66.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)  5.3        8.2     38.0            38.0      20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)           91.5       100.0    111.2           113.7     107.3       103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRENEIKS)                110.0       112.0    113.0           127.4     105.3       110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        78.0        78.0     75.7           92.8       63.0       77.7
OF WICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        ..        22.0 L&  24.7            39.3      21.7        22.2
CEILD (AGES 1-4) MOTALITY RATE    16.0 /h    14.7 L      *-            1.6        8.0        1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TEARS)   49.3      54.4      56.9           68.9       57.2       63.0
INFANT NURTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                        187.0 /J   1J3.0 k      ..           34.5       53.9.      38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATE (PERCENT O
POPULATION)
TMTAL                             ..        52.0     68.0           68.3       56.8       67.7
URgAN                             ..        51.0     74.0            74.3      79.0       83.5
RURAL                             ..       53.0      64.0           64.4       31.8       41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          *-      5.0           94.0       30.9       70.3
URBAN                             ..          ..     13.0           94.0       45.4       90.7
RUDAL                             ..          ..      5.0           93.0       16.1       38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        3000.0 /1  2150.0   1830.0           686.5    2706.8      1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON   3260.0     1880.0   1520.O           339.0    1462.0       849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          590.0 a     490.0    460.0           178.0     493.9      275.4
URBAN                          190.0 L    200.0    210.0            70.0      229.6      129.9
RURAL                             *-      5890.0   5750.0          1770.0    2947.9      965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..        20.0     20.0            15.3      22.1       18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5.7         5.9       ..              ..       5.2        3.9
URBS                              ..          *-        -              *-       5.0
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..             ..        5,4
AVERArE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             *-         2.2       ..            0.9        2.0        0.9
URBAN                            2.0         1.9       ..             0.8       1.5        0.6
RURAL                             ..         ...       ..             1.0       2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DUELLINGS)
TMTAL                           29.0        40.0     57.0            57.5      64.1        59.2
URBAN                             ..          ..       ..            99.0      67.8        79.0
RURAL                            2.0        18:.       ..             ..       34.1        12.5



ANNEX 1
- 27 -                                                 Page 2 of 6
TA_LE 3A
TUltEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
TURK!!Y                                              /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME       SAHE     NEXT HIGHER
HOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME      INCOME
1960 /b    1910 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION Ic  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRlIRY:     TOTAL                 75.0       109.0    104.0           108.0       99.8        97.6
FEMALE              58.0        94.0      94.0            99.5       93.3        87.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                14.0        28.0      30.0            62.8       33.8        47.8
FEMALE               8.0         16.0     18.0            63.6       29.8        42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 18.0       14.0      15.0            28.2       12.8        22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          46.0        38.0      34.0            24.9       34.9        25.4
SECONDARY                        19.0        28.0      27.0            17.3       22.2        24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)      40.0 ]m     55.5 /Ir    *-            88.3       71.8        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        2.0         4.0       8.0            90.4       12.4        32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       49.0        89.0     107.0           199.0      104.5       201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          *-        3.0      12.0           132.5       28.1        97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                51.0        41.0        ..            97.1       45.2        70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.1        6.7        ..             6.6        4.6         4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THCUSANDS)    13000.0 /n  14500.0   16400.0 /o
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 40.2        37.2      37.3            32.4       25.7        17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENI)            71.7        63.4      52.5 /o         32.8       46.2        38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               10.5        12.1        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              50.1        44.3      42.8            39.1       33.8        33.7
MALE                                58.7       54.9      53.2            56.7       48.1        50.8
FEMALE                             41.2        33.4      32.1            29.7       17.3        12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.0         1.1       1.2             0.9        1.4         1.4
INCOMlE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT 01' HOUSEHOLDS   33.0 fh   32.8 Iv   28.0            31.9       23.6        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.0 /h    60.6 /p  56.0             59.7       52.3        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OE' HOUSEHOLDS    4.2 /h    2.9 /n    3.5             4.0        4.3         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF' HOUSEHOLDS   10.6 /h    9.4 /p   11.5            12.9       13.1        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..              ..      191.9
RURAL                              ..          ..    162.0            194.9      193.1       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA:
URBAN                              ..          ..    291.0            295.1      319.8       448.8
RURAL                              ..          ..    218.0            309.2      197.7       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION IIELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT,P
URBAN                               ..         ..      18.0            18.2       19.8        23.2
RURAL                              ..          ..      25.0            24.2       35.1        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populatecl country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depend:i on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to) any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Europe;  /d  Inti:rmndiate Middle Income (555L-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper Middle Income (S1136-2500
per capita, 1976);  If  1955-60;  JR  1965-70;  lh  1963;  /i  1967-68;  /i based on sample survey
estimates of 9.703 households; sight be undere-stilsted; /k 1967; /1 1962; /I Six years and above;
or 1965; /o  1977;  /. 1968.
May 1978



c,~~~~. ~~ANNEX   I
- 28 -                                                          AE  
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated cou.try ir each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and exocreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                                 Population per hoepital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (totae.
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                           urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                    available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, narket and kitchen gardens or to                       habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fellow.                                                                                at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
(NP PER CAPIIA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                     cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                  sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                 provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per ho Ipitel bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
EiNERGY CONSlMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                      from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
ihernal mluctricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Average sine of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                      and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 196i, 1970, and 1977 data.                              the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of hb.ase-
Urban population  (percent of total) - Ratin of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                     Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average nun-
of data aon-g countries,                                                                   bee oC persons per room in all, urban, and rural OccUpied conventional
Population density                                                                           dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year populatian per square kilometer (100 hectares)                      unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rure- -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                      Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters an percentage
cnly.                                                                                      of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Populaoin_ age structure (peroent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired  (65 years and  -rov) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                     Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                          at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                         different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                       cation en-rllment may emceed 100 pyrcent since some pupils are belo- or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1971 for most recent estimate.                        above the nffirial school age.
irude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                       Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary oduca-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                      tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for moot recent estimate.                            aides general vocational, or teacher trainirg instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                      usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period it she experiences pr-sent age-                         excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                    Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vscational instituti-n  in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                            clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independentlS
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                           or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-coctrol devices under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                          primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the carre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                           sponding levels,
married woven of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                 Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices t0 all married wamen in same age group.                                            a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       CONSCSMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                     Passenger cars (per thousand Population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food coeodities.                                        seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                   vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                 broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                    effect; data for recant years may not be comparable since mcst countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
mel activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                    TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                     public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                         tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per dav) - Protein content of per                    Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the aterage circ,la-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                       tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
shove.  Requirements for all countries established by TSDA provide for                    cation devoted primarily to re-ording general news.  It in considered tO
a mini.mu  allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 geams                    be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.               Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on tie number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                      sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                        units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                      Total labor force (thousands) - E^onomically acrive persons, Incl b-ng armed
Child (ages I-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                    forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  DefSnm-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                                tions in various countries are  oot comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
PEALTH                                                                                     Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                           as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in miming, construction, manufacturing and
und 1975.                                                                                  electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
mnfunt mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                   omale labor force as percentages of their respective popu.-ti--.
Access to safe water (percent of population) -  total, urban, and rural -                    rhese ore ILO' s   djusred participation rares reflecting  ar-sov
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                       str-cture of the pop,l>.io-. and lamp timre trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated bht                    Economic dependenc   ratir  - Ratic of populatio. under 17 and  -5 u,', .'cc  cc
uncontaminated water such as that fron protected boreholes, springs,                       the labcr force in age gro.p ci 15-6b  ears.
and sanitary wells) as percentages oa their respective populations.
In an urban area a public founcain or standpaus  located not more                     INCOME DISTRIBUTI0N
than 200 meters from a house mar se considered as being within r-a-                    Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by'. ci--ec
sonable access of chat house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                      percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and p ccnsc .1 strc-rc
imply tcat the housewife or members of the household do not have to                            - fhouseholds.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                          POVERTi TARiE- CROIPS
Access tc  -creta disposal (percent of popolation) - total, urban, and                    Estimatea            poverty income levl (U    pe    apit) -           a   c -     .. -
none1 - Number of peopla (asal, urban, and rural) narvsd by --reta                           Absolute po-rtc income level in  hat income level tlow wli    a
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Encreta                          nutritionally adequate diet plan essential non-food requirmerc-            s 
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                          affordable.
treetr.nt, of human excreta and waste-water by  -ace-born-  -s--es                     Estit.aed relt.tie poverty in.sae  evel (iSS pen x   tu   - urban   -                 -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                       Relative poverty income level is that income level lass thean r
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                        per capita personal incom.e of the countrv.
physicians qualified from a medical school at uiversrity level.                        istimated population below poverty income level -pereer.) -   l__nLn             r
Population per nursing Perso  - Population divided by number of                              Percent of population (urban and rural) who arc either '-  c-
practic:eg male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                          "relative poor  ;hichever is greater.
uasuistant Oceans.
Economic and Social Data li% L'.
Eccoomic Analysis and ProJectins n            .



- 29 -
AMUN I
'IURUEY - CONOMIC DEVELoSPEN  DATA SuTI? 11/                                                                 P.   4 of 6
Actual                           get.          Proietted
Gr-wth Rates           Share of GDP
1970             1 19 7 1975       1976       1977      1978       1979      1980                  70.77       7780               1976
A. NAIIONAL ACCUUNTS (TL. 8illon. 1976 Pric..)
1.  Grom. D"'stic Product                            423.5        514.1       607.7      659.0     688.0      720.3     740.7      769.0                 7.2         3.8               100.0
2.  Gain frow Term  of Tr.de                           6.9          4.5        -5.4        0.0      .0.7       -6.2    -13.4      -19.6                                                  0.0
J.  GrCog Domestic Incoe                             430.4        518.6       602.3      659.0     687.3      714.1     727.3      749.4                 6.9         2.9               100
4.  Exports (C * NFS)                                 21.8         36.9        29.6       35.0      32.0       47.4      53.0       61.4                  5.6       24.3                 5.3
5.  loport  (C * NFS)                                 31.4         5t.2        81_2.      82.8      96.7       81.3      77.3       75.6                17.4        .7.9                12.6
6.  4eourte Balnc.                                   -9.6        -11.3       .51.6      .47.8     -64.7      -33.9    .24.3      -14.2                                                  7.3
7.  I-veotmsnt                                        79.5        97.3        145.8      156.7     163.8      146.3     146.3     146.3                 10.9       -3.7                 23.8
8. Concoption                                        353.6        430.1       513.5      550.1     588.8      607.9     618.7      636.9                  7.6        2.7                83.5
9.  Do-eic Soic8e                                     76.8         911.5       88.a      108.9      98.5      106.2     122.0      132.1                 3.6        10.3                16.5
10. St Ional Savingo                                   83.2       114.7        104.5      119.9     107.1      109.5     125.0      134.1                 3-7         7.8                18.2
8.  SECTOR OTUT                                                         Share of Total Ouatput
1.  Agrieu.Lyt                                        27.1         22.6        23.4       23.2      22.1       23.3      23.0       22.0                 4.1         3.6
2.  Indu.try~'                                        22.8         25.2        25.0       25.2      25.8       24.3      24.8       25.4                 9.2         3.2
3. Other                                              50.1         52.1        51.6       51.5      52.2       52.4      52.2       52.6                 7.9         4.0
C.  PRICFS (1976 - 100)
1.  Export Prices                                     57.4         66.6        96.1      100.0      102.3      85.7      83.4       84.2                 8.6        -6.3
2.  Import Prices                                     43.2         60.3       113.1      100.0      104.2      95.4     103.7      111.9                13.4         2.4
3. Term  of Tred. 132.9                                           11I1.4       85.0      100.0       98.2      89.8      80.4       75.2                -4.2        -8.5
4.  _DP Defl.tor                                      34.4         57.5        85.4      100.0      124.1     186.2    260.7       338.9                20.0        39.8
5. Averag 9chaoge ?at. ($1.1)0 . TL)                  11.5         14.1        14.4       16.1       18.0      24.3
P.erent of GDP
D.  PUBLIC FINANCE
1. Central Cooer,ent lIeveno.                         19.9         19.7        20.5       21.4       22.4      21.5
2. Central Governent Zpanditur.s                      22.5         22.0        22.8       24.1       27.4      24.1
3.  Public S.etor D.fiit;J                            N.A.          2.1         6.1        8.1        9.0      N.A.
7.970-7'                                                                                                              x.t
1970      1975       1977
E.  SELECTED INDICATORS                                                                            F. LABOR FORC
ICOR                                                   2.9                                         Civilian Labor Force (millions)                    13.8       15.7      16.2
LoPort Eisaticity                                      2.4                                         U.nwly_nt and Und.r-ploysent (7. of CL?)           11.0       12.3      13.5
Avrage DSoo,tie Saving Rate                           15.4                                         CIvilin Emplo_.nt (-illions)                        13.1      14.7       14.7
Mlrainal Dostie Saving rate                            7.7                                           of which (3.)
Inv1enn-nt/fCP                                        21.1
l=p_rt./CDP                                           U1.4                                           AgrinuLtura                                       67.1      64.5       61.8
I.du.etryV                                       10.6       11.5      12.6
Other                                            22.3       24.0      Z5.6
U     t.ole   y not dd up be.u-. of rounding orrore.
j/  gorrowing roquire.ent of central  o mennt, state Ceconoic enterprises.  nd other public -uthoritia..
~J   Includee 010ai.ing   nue-eturing, electricity, ga, w-ter works,  sx,lude. construetion.
1 L977-80 regarded     unrepre.tattiv  transitio.nl years.                                                                                                           EM7UA CPIIA
Say 8, 1979



- 30 -
TURKEY - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                   Age   o
(Million US Dollarl                                       Page 5 of 6
Actual   __t                                   Projected
1970   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977            1 78        1979    1980
A. SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1.  Exports of Goods and NFS                    754   1799   2123   2152   2742   2556            3258         3545    4146
2.  Imports of Goods and NFS                  -1096  -2391  -4183  -5219  -5735  -6436           -5164        -5338   -5633
3.  Resource Balance                           -342   -592  -2060  -3067  -2993  -3880           -1906        -1793   -1487
4.  Interest (net) 1/                           -47    -59   -102   -124   -217   -500            -678         -744    -920
5.  Profits                                     -33    -35    -71    -36    -83   -116             -58          -89      -94
6.  Workers' Remittances                        273   1183   1426   1312    983    982             975         1090    1180
7.  Net Factor Service Income                   193   1089   1253   1152    683        366         239          257      166
8.  Transfers (net)                              91      18      27      23     15       12          14          25       30
9.  Current Account Balance                     -58    515   -780  -1892  -2295  -3502           -1653        -1511   -1291
10.  Direct Foreign Investment                    58      27      88    153       27      67          40         150      175
11.  Imports with Waiver                          34      50      58      98    136     102          100         102      104
12.  Public M and LT (gross) 2/                  271    376    330    386    491        502          650        1639    1775
13.  Amortisation of Public M and LT 1/ 2/  -146    -72   -126   -117   -119   -214                 -387        -511    -674
14.  Public M and LT (net)                       125    304    204    269    372    288              263        1128    1101
15.  IMF (net)                                    48    -11       -     243    148       -           180         150    -100
16.  Short Term  (net) 3/                         18   -224    -80    916   1806   2972              730           -        -
17.  Capital not included elsewhere  4/          -39      67      79   -204   -306    -478          540          -19        61
18   Charge in Reserves (- - increase)          -186   -728    431    417    112        551        -200            -      -50
B.  M and LT LOAN COMMITMENTS 5/                      506    547    577    721   1461   1076            1368
Public bector                                    487    491    327    615   1374   1076            1368
j.  Bank Group                                   40    135    228    158    237        144         358
2.  Other Multilateral                          132    100    135       40      55       3          63
3. Governments: Market Economies                154    218    145    178    180        301         375
4. Governments; Centrally Planned Economies 114           4      -        3    295     216          343
5.  Suppliers                                    47       3      -      45    161      160          53
6. Financial Institutions                        -       32      19    191    423      251         177
7. Other                                         -       -      -       -       24      -
Private Sector                                   19      56     50    106       87      .Sa.       n.a.
C.  AVERAGE TERMS OF M and LT LOAN
COMMITMENTS /5
1.  Grant Element (%)                            36.4   39.0   29.7   15.4   14.3  14.0             n.a.
2.  Interest       (%)                            3.6    4.7    5.9    7.3    7.2   7.4             n.a.
3.  Maturity        (yrs.)                       18.0   25.6   22.9   13.4   12.6  12.7             n.a.
4.  Grace           (yrs.)                        4.6    7.0    5.6    3.9    3.8  4.6              n.a.
LI  Net of debt relief.
/2  Up to and including 1978 these figures are Government estimates, which are not consistent with Bank DRS data.
/3  Up to and including 1978 mainly convertible Lira Accounts, Acceptance Credits, Commercial and Oil arrears, Bankers'
Credits, Reimbursement Credits, Overdrafts, and Dresdner Bank Scheme deposits.
/4  Mainly errors and omissions up to and including 1978; in 1979 and 1980 represents net private M and LT borrowing.
/5  Public and publicly guaranteed external debt only.
EMENA CPIIA
May 8, 1979



- 31 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
TURKEY - EXTERNAL DEBT MSD CREDITWORTHINESS
Actual-                         Estimate-
1970     1973      1975       1976       1977 7      t 1978
A.  DUTSTANDINC DEBT (Millicon US Dollars)
1.  Public N and LT (Di,ibursed) 1/                                           1854      2869      3176       3585       4314       4928
2.  Private M and LT (dl.sbursed) I/                                            42       115       160        253        479        557
3.  Short Term 2/                                                             n.a.      n.a.      1388       3342       6539       7469
4.  Total Outstanding D:Lsbursed Debt                                         1896 2a/ 2984 2a/ 4724         7180      11332      12954
5.  Undisbursed Public l! and LT 1/                                            840      1101      1608       2427       2787       2972
B.  DEBT SERVICE (Million US Dollars)
1.  Interest on all Debt (net of relief) 3/                                    -47       -59      -124       -217       -500       -678
2.  Amortisation of M and LT Debt (net of relief) 3/                          -146       -72      -117       -119       -214       -387
3.  Total Debt Service Payments                                               -193      -131      -241       -336       -714      -1065
C.  DEBT BURDEN
1.  Debt Service Ratio 4/                                                       18.8       4.4       7.0        9.0       20.2    25.2
2.  Total Outstanding Diabursed Debt/GDP 4a/                                    15.0      14.3      13.1       17.5       23.9    24.1
0.  TERMS
1.  Interest on all Debt 5/ I Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                   2.5       2.0       2.6        3.0       .4.4      5.2
2.  Total Debt Service 5/ I Total Outstanding Disibursed Debt                   10.2       4.4       5.1        4.7        6.3      8.2
E.  6XPUSURE
1.  Bank Group DOD/Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                              7.2       8.5       9.1        7.7        6.1      6.5
2.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                                   3.2      14.9      13.5       13.4        9.1      6.6
F. COMPOSITION OF TOTAL OUTSTANDING DISBURSED DEBT
(Million US Dollars)                                                  1977L6                           19_7__i_ __
1.  Medium & Long-Term Debt                                                    479.3     42.3                5485            42.4
a.  Public N snd LT
(i)  Bank Group                                                       .693        6.1                 836            6.5
(ii)  other Muitilateral                                                502        4.4                 558
(iii)  Governments                                                      2469       21.8                2907            22.,
Uiv)  Suppliers                                                          133       I.;                 131             1.0
(v)  Financial institutions                                            483        4.3                 464              '
(vi)  Other                                                              34        0.0                  32            0.2
Total                                                    4314       38.1                4928           38.1
b.  Private M and LT (Total)                                               479        4.2                557             4.3
2.   Short Term
(i)  Convertible Lira Accounts                                        2267       20.0                2860           22.1
(ii)  Suppliers' CreditslCommercial and Oil Arrears                    1858       16.4                1675            12.9
(iii)  Acceptance Credits                                                 710       6.3                 862             6.7
(iv)  banKers Credits, Reimbursement Credits, Overdrafts                828        7.3                 924             7.1
(v)  Dresdner Bank                                                     173        1.5                 363            2.8
(vi)  IMF                                                               409        3.6                 622            4.8
(vii)  Other                                                              294       2.6                 163             1.3
Total                                                    6539       57.7                7469           57.6
3.  Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                          11332      100.0               12954          100.0
/I  Bank DRS data.
/2  Based on Turkish Central Bank estimates.  /2a  Excluding short-term.
/3  Based on Turkish Balance of Payments data.
i4  Tocal debt service (line B3) divided by exports of goods and non-factor services plus workers' remittances.
.4a At market prices.  !5  Net of debt relief.
/I  As of December 31 for respective years.
rFIENA CPIIA
lay 8, 1979



ANir A II
- 32 -                           Pare I. f 8
STATUS OF B=AN1' GROUP OPERATIO NS IN TURKEY
SsTATEM??;IO  7ANI" T ('!-7S z'A L IDi' CREDLTS
(As of April 30, 1979)
Loan and
Credit                                                                (Less Cancellations US$m)
Ntumber    Year       Borrower                    Purpose             Bank        IDA   Undisbursed
Sixteen loans and ter credits fully disbursed                         297.0      127.2
748--TU   1971   Republic of Turkey      Education                     13.5                  3.9
762-TlT  1971   Republic of Turkey       Fruit and Vegetable           10.0                  1.2
257-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey       Fruit and Vegetable                      15.0       0.1
281-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey       Irrigation Rehabilitation                18.0       0.8
817-TU   1972   Repliblic of Turkey      Steel Mill Expansion          76.0                  0.3
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey       Istar,bul Water Supply        37.0                  9.7
324-TU   1972   Reipublic of Turkey      Istanbul Urban Development                2.3       0.7
330-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey       Livestock II                             16.0       1.5
883-TU   1.973   Republic of Turkey      Ceyhan Aslantas               44.0                 24.1
892-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey       Istanbul Power District       14.0                  1.5
893-TU   1973   Turkish State Railway  Railway Project                 46.7-                 9.3
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey       Antalya Forestry              40.0                  5.1
1L023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                 Elbistan Power               148.0                 69.9
:L024-TU   1974   DYB                     Industry                      40.0                  3,3
L078-TU   1975   TSKB                     Industry                      65.0                  2.3
:L130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey      Rural Development             75.0                 51.9
:1248--TU   1976   Agriculture Bark of
Turkey (TCZB)         Agriculture Credit            54.3                38.8
:L258-TU   1976   State Pullp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)       Newsprint                     70.0                23.4
I265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey       Livestock III                 21.5                 17.9
1194-TU   1976   TEI(                     Power Transmission II         56.0                 37.2
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey       Tourism                       26.0                 24.4
1379-TU   1977   DYB                      Industry                      70.0                 68.0
1430-TU   1977   TSKB                     Industry                      74.0                42.0
1.585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey      Northern Forestry             86.0                85.4
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Livestock IV                  24.0                 24.0
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Erdemir Steel Stage IIa/   95.0                    95.0
1627-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Program Loan                 150.0               118.2
'-13-lU   1978   Republic of Turkev       Oil Recovery                   2.5                  2.2
Total                                               1635.5      178.5    762.1
of which nas been repaid                           157.1        4.7
Total now outstanding                               1478.4      173.8
Amount sold                    3.6
of which has been repaid   3.6                     - 0 -      - 0 --
Totl now held by Bank and IDA. b/                   1478.4      173.8
Total undisbursed                                    759.0        3.1    762.1
a/ Not yet effective
b/ Prior to exchange adjustments



3-AYEX II
'' 33 -Page 2 of 8
STATUS OF  BAT TQU?OT 0@I'?vTrCONS TN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IEC INV'ESIMENT S                                              -
(As of April 30, 1979)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Year        Obliobr        Type of Business                Loen      Equity     Total
1964       TSKB            DFC                               -       0.92        0.92
1966        SIFA.3 I      .Nylon Yarn                      0.90       0.47        1.37
1967       TSKB II         DFC                               -       0.34        0.34
1969       TSKB III        DFC                               -       0.41        0.41
1969        SIFA3 II       Nylon Yarn                      1.50      0.43        1.93
1970       Viking I        Pu:lp and Paper                 2.50      0.62        3.12
1970       ACS             Glass                         10.00       1.58       11.58
1971       NASAS           Aluminum                        7.00      1.37        8.37
1971        SIFAS III      Nylon Yarn                   - 0.75         -         0.75
1971       Viki:ig II      Pulp and Paper                    -       0.05        0.05
1972        SIFAS IV       Nylon Yarn                        -       0.52        0.52
1972        TSKB IV        DFC                               -       0.43        0.43
1973       TSKB V          DFC                           10.00          -       10.00
1973       Akdeiiiz        Tourism                        0.33   . 0.27          0.60
1974       Boru8an         Steel Pipes                     3.60      0.44        4.04
1974       AKSA            Textiles                      10.00         -        10.00
1975       Kartaltepe    Textiles                         1.30         -         1.30
1975        Sasa           Nylon Yarn                    15.00         -        15.00
1975       Aslan           Cement                        10.60         -        10.60
1975       DOKTAS          Steel                           7.50      1.37        8.87
1975       TSKB            DFC                           25.00       1.22       26.22
1976       NASAS           Aluminum                       1.58         -         1.58
1976       TSKB            DFC                           25.00         -        25.00
1976       Asil Celik    Steel                           12.00       2.18       14.18
1977       Borusan         Steel Pipes                       -       0.16        0.16
1978       DOKTAS          Steel                             -       0.27        0.27
1979       Ege Miosan      Engines, for Mopeds            2.15         -         2.15
1979        ISAS           Motor Vehicles &
Accessories                  8.00       1.40        9.40
1979       Asil Celik    Steel                               -       1.80        1.80
r2rci8a Cam    G1ass                         30.6       4.00       34.96
Total Gross Cormiritmeuts                   185.57      20.27      20,5-
Less Cancellatisns, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                  97.98       2.99      1 OC.97
Total Commitments now held by IFC            87.f,9     17.28      1.04.97
Total Undisbursed                            41.59       5.84       47.43



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 748 Education Project:  US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971.  Effec-
tive Date:  September 29, 1971.  Closing Date:  March 31, 1980.
The project was substantially delayed due mainly to initial diffi-
culties in providing the project unit with adequate qualified staff and
authority commensurate with its responsibilities. However, implementation is
now proceeding well, with equipment procurement progressing satisfactorily.
Training of teachers for technician schools, adult training centers and
practical trade schools has made considerable progress. The Management
Training Institute has been established on an interim basis pending passage
of legislation formally establishing it, and its instructors are undergoing
training. Sixty-seven local advisory committees for vocational and technical
education have been established, one in each province.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 762/257 Fruit and Vegetable Export Project: US$10 million
loan and US$15 million credit of June 22, 1971. Effective Date: May 19,
1972. Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is nearing completion, with three of its four com-
ponents, including refrigerated trailer and towing units, marketing facili-
ties and a roll-on roll-off ferryship, fully implemented. A fourth component,
comprising credit and technical assistance for citrus development, underwent
initial start-up delays, but is now well esLablished and being implemented
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 281 Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$18 million credit of
January 25, 1972. Effective Date: April 27, 1972. Closing Date: April 30,
1979.
Construction of irrigation and drainage channels and on-farm works
at Silifke and Tokat is nearly complete, but on-farm works are still behind
schedule at Koprucay because of the extremely short annual work season.
Arrangements to ensure use of remaining credit funds before the revised
closing date were made by the implementing agencies, and project works not
completed by the closing date will be carried out using Government funds.
Agreements to reimburse have been issued for several letters of credit repre-
senting remaining funds under the IDA credit, which are expected to be with-
drawn by mid-June.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 817 Steel Mill Expansion Project: US$76 million loan of April 28,
1972. Effective Date: August 4, 1972. Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project started commercial production at the end of the year,
three years behind the original schedule, due to delays in beginning procure-
ment stemming largely from inefficient management.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972.  Effective Date:  January 4, 1973.  Closing Date:  December 31, 1979.
Project construction was delayed about 2-1/2 years due mainly to
problems in the use of ICB procurement procedures and inefficient management.
However, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two major water resources
development programs are expected to be completed by end-1978. Substantial
improvements to the distribution system are required, however, to enable full
utilization to be made of the new water sources. Although a tariff increase
was implemented in March 1978, this was insufficient to enable ISI to generate
sufficient funds for future ongoing investment in the distribution system, and
the Governnment has been requested to explore ways to resolve the lack of ade-
quate local, and foreign currency.
Cr. No. 324 Istanbul Urban Development Project: US$2.3 million credit of
June 30, 1972.  Effective Date:  January 4, 1973.  Closing Date:  June 30,
1980.
,Consultants have completed Phase I of the general urban planning and
urban transport/land use modlelling studies as well as studies on wastewater
and bus/traffic engineering and control. Terms of reference for Phase II
studies have been agreed andi consultants' proposals sought.
Cr. No. 330 Second Livestock Project: US$16 million credit of September 28,
1972. Effective Date: January 5, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The Fattening Subproject is progressing satisfactorily and all funds
have been committed. The Village Livestock Development Subproject, after
resolution of initial difficulties in recruitment of technicians and gaining
farmer confidence, is now progressing rapidly, with 95 percent of the funds
committed. The project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44 million
loan and lJS$30 million credlit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date: March 20,
1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Construction of diversion tunnels has met with difficult rock condi-
tions and several cave-ins, but diversion has now been completed with revised
tunnelling methods, about two years behind the appraisal estimate. After some
initial delays, progress in construction of the irrigation works has been



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
satisfactory, and the system was ready to deliver water to about 36,500 ha,
nearly one-third of the projects target. On-farm works were progressing
satisfactorily although farm drainage was behind schedule. However, construc-
tion of feeder roads has progressed faster than initially estimated. Although
a permanent director has been appointed, the extension consultant has resigned
and is now being replaced. Full-time subject matter specialists have been
hired and recruitment of field staff is continuing.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Effective Date: September 28, 1973. Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project has been delayed by about four years mainly by slow pro-
curement action; however, this is now almost completed. Local costs have
increased by nearly 300 percent over appraisal estimates, and foreign costs
by 26 percent. Consultant studies of the Istanbul power market and of the
proposed reorganization of the company's electricity and transport services
have been completed; a study of its gas operations is under review. IETT's
tariffs were raised twice following the countrywide tariff adjustments made in
September 1977; additional steps are planned by the Government to help cover
the increased project costs and revitalize the company's finances.
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date: August 28, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
After initial delays, physical progress, including track renewals,
rolling stock, and locomotive production, the latter financed by the European
Investment Bank, is satisfactory. Nearly 80 percent of the loan has been
disbursed and procurement actions have been or are in the process of being
completed for use of the remaining loan funds, although project completion
will only be in mid-1980. Despite two tariff increases since the loan was
made, the Railways have continued to fall short of the financial targets in
the revised Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in mid-1975. However, it is
hoped that further increases in passenger fares and freight tariffs averaging
70 to 80 percent, which became effective earlier this year, will improve the
Railways' financial situation. While the dieselization program is making
satisfactory progress, other measures to improve operational efficiency, such
as appropriate manpower planning, have not been given sufficient attention.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project: US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date: May 26, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Following the approval by the Executive Directors of needed changes
in the agreements arising from relocation of the pulp and paper mill, the loan
was declared effective. Construction at the new site is underway, and the
project is expected to be completed by mid-1981, two years behind the revised
schedule. Some cases of sub-standard civil works construction have occurred,
but a corrective program and strengthened supervision by SEKA have produced
some improvement. The cost overruns were to be met by the Government and



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
the State Investment Bank. The Government has recently been unable to
authorize the foreign exchange transfers needed to permit continued procure-
ment for the industrial part of the project, except for certain critically
needed items, aid is seeking additional external financing. Local currency
payments for the Akdeniz establishment are also behind schedule, resulting in
a high debt-equity ratio.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
Engineering and contracting are proceeding, but project implementa-
tion has been delayed by critical problems, including insufficient staff,
inefficient management, inadequate coordination among various agencies and
unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors. Following Bank and co-lender
reviews of t:he situation with the Turkish authorities in early 1977, the reme-
dial measures initiated by Turkey have resulted in some improvement of project
coordination and physical aspects of project implementation. Financing, both
domestic andl foreign, remains a serious problem. The Government is reviewing
possible acl:ions to overcome these and other remaining implementation problems.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey):  US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The loan was fully committed in February 1977, with eleven sub-
projects approved by the Banlc. Project implementation is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1078 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$65 million
loan of January 22, 1974. Effective Date: April 24, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The loan is fully committed and project implementation is satis-
factory. Disbursements are nearly complete, although somewhat behind original
appraisal estimates, as a result of difficulties with a few subprojects.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date: January 2, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. The project extension
service and[ credit components are operating successfully and consultants are
being engaged. Corum dam has been completed. Kumbaba pumping station and
the associated irrigation networks are nearly completed.  Construction of the
remaining village centers will be delayed until 1979 while a plan for the use
and maintenance of the centers already built is being drawn up. Other civil
works are well underway.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date: April 21, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Procurement action is complete, somewhat behind schedule, and almost
the entire loan is committecl. Some deliveries have also been delayed because



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
of foreign exchange shortages, but this situation is expected to improve, and
overall project implementation and the rate of disbursement should also
improve in the coming period.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.2 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date: May 11, 1977. Closing Date: September 30,
1981.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on
and roll-off ships purchased under this project and the Fruit and Vegetable
Export project, are now operating a regularly scheduled service between ports
in Turkey and two ports in Italy. Selection of agro-industries sub-loans has
been delayed, but some have recently been approved. The Agricultural Bank
(TCZB) has introduced improved lending procedures for its ongoing supervised
credit program, and this component is being implemented satisfactorily. Terms
of reference for consultants to carry out the study of TCZB's structure and
procedures are being finalized after considerable delay. At the Borrower's
request, a cattle-fattening component of the Project, and US$7.7 million of
the original Loan amount of $63 million, allocated for this purpose, were
cancelled on May 5, 1977. Also, as provided for in the Loan Agreement, $1.04
million for training was cancelled on December 22, 1977, following approval of
UNDP funds for this purpose.
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint: US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date: October 15, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is now proceeding satisfactorily, but due to delays in
civil works and procurement is expected to start production in mid-1980,
eighteen months behind the appraisal schedule.  Erection of machinery and
equipment is expected to begin in early 1979 and trial runs about one year
later.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III:  US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976.  Effective
Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation is
now satisfactory. Project area offices have been established and are virtually
fully staffed, with all three consultants on post. Preparation of farm devel-
opment plans has been slower than expected; however, substantial numbers of
sub-loan applications have been approved and include a higher proportion than
expected of small farmers.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is satisfactory, with
progress being made in preparation of specifications and project design work.
The Project Unit has now been established in the Project Area and appointment
of key staff is being accelerated.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date: March 31,
1981.
Almlost half of the loan has been committed, and the remainder is
expected to be committed by mid-1979.  DYB has experienced management changes
and still has severe staff constraints, which it has in part overcome by
recruitment of additional juniLor staff. It hopes improved contract terms
will enable it to fill more senior positions as needed.
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey):  US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977. Effective Date: August 29, 1977. Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and two-thirds of the loan has been com-
mitted. In 1977 and 1978, TSKB essentially reached an agreed target by allo-
cating 39 percent of its resources to projects in less developed regions, and
exceeded another in its assistance to small and medium-scale labor-intensive
enterprises..  TSKB has so far been unable to raise resources in international
capital markets as expected because of Turkey's economic difficulties, but the
interest of several financing sources is anticipated once conditions permit
renewed efforts.
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry: US$86.0 million loan of June 5 1978.
Effective Date:  October 30, 1978.  Closing Date:  March 31, 1986.
Project implementation has begun and procurement is underway.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV: US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978. Effective
Date:  Octcber 31, 1978.  Closing Date:  June 30, 1985.
Recruitment of technical specialists for the project and selection
of consulteLnts for the milk industry study are underway.
Ln. No. 16(06 Erdemir Stage II Steel: US$95.0 million loan of .June 30, 1978.
Closing Dai:e: June 30, 1983.
This loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1627 Import Program:  US$150.0 million of November 8, 1978.
Effective Date:  November 16, 1978.  Closing Date:  June 30, 1980.
In accordance with Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement a satisfactory
review of Turkey's export policies and performance was made by the Bank in
April and a determination made to continue disbursements after April 30. As
of June 6, disbursements totalled $53.9 million.
Ln. No. S-13 Bati Raman Engineering:  US$2.5 million of November 30, 1978.
Effective Date: February 27, 1979. Closing Date: February 29, 1980.
This loan has just become effective. Consultants have been
appointed for the comparative feasibility study, which is under way.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:    1975-1978
(b) Agencies which prepared
the project:                            FAO/IBRD CP
(c) Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project:                   October, 1976
(d)  Departure of Appraisal mission:          October, 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:   May, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:           Ninety days after signing
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Government to increase TMO's paid-in capital to TL 0.7 billion as a
condition of effectiveness and to TL 1.4 billion by December 31, 1980
(para 55 and Loan Agreement, Sections 3.04 and 6.01(c)).
(b) Engineering, design and supervision of silo construction to be done by
consultants to be hired under Bank guidelines and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank (para 72 and TMO Project Agreement, Section
2.02).
(c) A study to evaluate the effect of input subsidy and producer price
support programs on land-use patterns and of these programs together
with the consumer price subsidies on the national budget, to be carried
out by the Ministry of Agriculture with the assistance of consultants
recruited internationally under Bank guidelines and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, and the preparation and initiation thereafter
of an implementing action plan (para 50 and Loan Agreement, Section 3.02
and Schedule 2, Part D).
(d) TCDD and TMO to agree on procedures satisfactory to the Bank for the
efficient and exclusive use of the hopper wagons by TCDD for grain
transport (para 61 and TCDD Project Agreement, Section 2.04; TMO
Project Agreement, Section 2.08).
(e) TCDD procurement of imported materials needed for manufacture of hopper
wagons to be in bulk as much as practicable and under ICB in accordance
with Bank guidelines (para 74 and TCDD Project Agreement, Procurement
Schedule, Para A.3).



IBRD 14195R
BU LGARIA                                                                                                                                                                                                  TRE
42A                                                                                   -5~K.                                                'NEO  AKEIGRAIN    ST RPROJECT                                                                                                                           *E42-
1<2K>                                                                    KOREA       AEAYN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                             ~~~~Aj]  AYE;IAE IN K   I
AN
El            {1~~~~~J                    JSAA                YAAAN~~~~~~I-   - ~A.    I M                                           c-     -           R ACIEA   AC.Y E                                                                                      \ ElAA 
40-                                               0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MYOJF                                      T        I                              AKKA
YE  I                                                            AR                                                                                                                    LEANYKA                                           AEIEY03 ANCL IA  b
FAAA ,TRE   <
AFFAC5AN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
AN                                                                'A1                                 ]4.? ITT
A                                                                                                                              0                 LAA                TEK JRR    ~N.YI  &SU>%/ANAAEl~~-A-/  0HAEEEL;NEYSMF  TOAZARA  US C                         NFIATA
CA  ApSE/ACT  CAYNA Ii A    STEElS EAR                                       A                                                    A MA>/
-                                                                                  U      A     /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A-                                                  AETANKEIN  KYSARAY                                               A>                               -2-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ RANAZ--A-
I                                  4~~~~0    -CQyTYK
AR'IL0        -                    ACE  U                                  KAAOA                                                                          /j`pTNY                                                                      T-/                                               .
CJJYRA  ~  ~              IAONYA>2C/LAROA                                                            A          /   A. <         HALA---- -~                                                  T       --
-AW    -E/            E                                                              A</RYAE
-                            ASP  AA(EA)SE                                              AEA.                                                                              S                                                            P A  
E/Y%  \    C NAA  SEANI- [5      CEACAR          KYOIARNIK     COFA          <CAY           A          - ~       ~~~~~ 'ASE4/A 
RENA  ~~~ACKEIAAAC<AYRANYI                                                                                                                 5yR/91             \AA JA  ERCACAN R/III  -
TE                  UYYR~                                    RIAN        EKAA                EKRKF  lEpINR 
AZ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                 A    (               TREI   A
-  NTAETN                                   -               IEIMAAAC    -       is~~-i-          CAY~7E'         ~                               -'                     / --ATE4 OSE
A R ES CANAL OFFICE                          ~7<t~/-                                                                                                                                  .                               ~~1A  
C) AIEN17Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/A 
AN   EA  -            2         AT~~~~~5  1CC       15 0      201
F-I  TempoRAPY PuRcHONIO cerh~~~~~~~                                      RANILWARYC                                                                   -                                         K EQETECRA             A/C 
L    TERNYORANY $ALEE CENTER                                                            ____FREoRFEANYSK                                                                                                                                                                                                 
COCANTION  ABLE>SNZA  OF PRAOPROSE  GRAIN  STORAGEAAAAAAAAAKTAAAAAAAA    . AAAAAA~MA                                                                                                                                                                                          NF0SERR..AMKMRAO
LOCATION  AMA0 EIAE OF EX50T010 FACtO EKES ACED EEFNESE  CONSTEMSCTIOA                                                             OAKNAAAAAA  F KM                                                                     .NAKEA A.AA.A...A. AAAKAAAA/-                                 ~              B
CPA                             Cr                               ANCACv P                                                                                                                           5                               40,A                                        G/T   AJWE   AGAN'%



