IFII
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1742 TU
Project Agreement
(Grain Storage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI DEVLET DEMIRYOLLARI
Dated July 2, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1742 TU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI DEVLET DEMIRYOLLARI (hereinafter called TCDD).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Turkey (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty five
million dollars ($85,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that TCDD agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter
set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TCDD, a portion of the proceeds of the
loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available
to TCDD on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS TCDD, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. TCDD shall carry out Part B of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and transportation practices, and shall


﻿-2-
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 'inds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purposq.
Section 2.02. (a) TCDD shall design the grain rail hopper
wagons provided for under Part B of the Project in accordance with
appropriate international standards and specifications to be
mutually agreed with TMO.
(b) TCDD shall promptly and prior to the manufacture of
grain rail hopper wagons furnish to the Bank for its approval
information on such design as agreed upon with TMO, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
Section 2.03. TCDD shall put 150 grain rail hopper wagons
constructed under Part B of the Project into operation not later
than December 31, 1980, and the remaining 150 grain rail hopper
wagons not later than December 31, 1981, or such other dates as
may be agreed between TCDD and the Bank.
Section 2.04. TCDD, in agreement with TMO, shall prepare a
program for efficient operation and maintenance of the grain
rail hopper wagons and furnish such program to the Bank for its
approval not later than September 30, 1980, and promptly implement
such program after its approval.
Section 2.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.06. TCDD undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by TCDD to replace or repair such goods.
Section 2.07. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, TCDD:
(i) shall use all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan made available to TCDD exclusively for Part B of the
Project; and (ii) shall use grain rail hopper wagons manufactured
under Part B of the Project or cause such wagons to be used
exclusively for grain transport.


﻿-3-
Section 2.08. (a) TCDD shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) TCDD: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Part B of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the faci-
lities and construction sites included in Part B of the Project
and to see the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) TCDD shall furnish to TMO promptly as needed for pur-
poses of its completion report under Section 2.05 (c) of the TMO
Project Agreement all such information as TMO shall reasonably
request concerning Part B of the Project and the operation and
maintenance of the grain rail hopper wagons manufactured under
said Part of the Project with respect to Section 2.04 of this
Agreement, the Project cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by TCDD and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) TCDD shall enable the Bank's representatives to see
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of TCDD and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.09. TCDD shall duly perform all its obligations
under the TCDD Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, TCDD shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.10. (a) TCDD shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement


﻿-4-
and under the TCDD Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) TCDD shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by TCDD of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the TCDD Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TCDD
Section 3.01. TCDD shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. TCDD shall at all times maintain its right to
carry on its operations and shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
Section 3.03. TCDD shall at all times manage its affairs,
plan its investments and maintain its financial position, all in
accordance with appropriate business and transportation practices
under the supervision of experienced and qualified management.
Section 3.04. TCDD shall at all times operate and maintain
its property, facilities and equipment and from time to time make
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all ina accordance
with appropriaLe practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. TCDD shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. TCDD shall with respect to Part B of the
Project: (i) have its accounts and financial statements for each
fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing


﻿-5-
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than seven months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail-as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
TCDD and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of TCDD thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify TCDD thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿- 6 -
-6-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For TCDD:
TCDD Isletmesi
Genel MdUrlUgU
Gar, Ankara
Turkey
Cable address:                     Telex:
DEMIRYOL                           42571 TCDD TR
Ankara
Section 6.02. Any action required or pernitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of TCDD may be taken or executed by its
Director General or such other person or persons as the Director
General shall designate in writing, and TCDD shall furnish-to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS W7HEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿-7-
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI DEVLET DEMIRYOLLARI
By /s/ Alaeddin T. YUrük
Authorized Representative
J


﻿SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, TCDD shall prepare and forward to the Bank
as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior
to the date of availability to the public of the first tender
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. TCDD shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basit of international competi-
tive bidding.
3.   (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no goods other
than brake pneumatic equipment, wheel sets, drawbars, buffer
equipment, screw couplings and axle bearings shall be procured
under Part B of the Project.
(b) Goods to be procured under Part B of the Project as
specified in paragraph (a) above shall be grouped together in bid
packages to the extent practical, under arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank.
(c) Delivery time of goods procured under Part B of the
Project as specified in paragraph (a) above shall be in line with
TCDD's manufacturing schedule for grain rail hopper wagons.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state


﻿in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to TCDD of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, TCDD shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, TCDD
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform TCDD and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall rot,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2. Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or


﻿- 10 -
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, TCDD shall inform the Bank
of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order
and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, shall promptly inform TCDD and state the reasons for its
determination.


