Report No. PIC5330
Project Name              Rwanda-Emergency Reintegration and Recovery Credit
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Rehabilitation and Recovery
Project ID                       RWPE48389
Borrower                         Government of Rwanda
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning,
P.O.Box 46, Kigali, Rwanda
Tel.: 250-74785; Fax: 250-75719
Date                             June 10, 1997
Appraisal Date                   May 12, 1997
Board Date                       June 26, 1997
Country Background
1.      Rwanda's history of ethnic conflict culminated in genocide,
civil war and massive displacement of the population in 1994. The
genocide that started in April 1994 took over half a million lives,
and the civil war that followed led to the flight of about 2
million Rwandans to the Democratic Republic of Congo (See 1/), Burundi and
Tanzania. A government of national unity, formed in July 1994,
after the civil war, affirmed its determination to work for peace
and national reconciliation, bring to justice the perpetrators of
the genocide, facilitate the resettlement of internally displaced
persons and the return and re-integration of all refugees, and
reform and liberalize the economy. The Government encouraged all
refugees to return, with assurances of their security and right to
the properties they left behind. Following this, an estimated
800,000 exiles of past conflicts (old case load refugees), returned
to Rwanda in 1994 and 1995. However, for over two years, the vast
majority of the 1994 refugees (new case load) remained in the camps
outside Rwanda until civil wars in both Burundi and Democratic
Republic of Congo forced them to return to Rwanda. About sixty
thousand refugees returned from Burundi in August 1996, and a
massive influx of an estimated 700,000 refugees from Democratic
Republic of Congo took place within two weeks in November 1996.
This was followed in December 1996 by the return of 500,000
refugees from Tanzania. International efforts are underway to bring
back an estimated 100,000 Rwandan refugees still stranded in
Democratic Republic of Congo.
The Emergency
2.      The Economic and Social Context.
The events of 1994 destroyed Rwanda's social fabric, damaged the
social and economic infrastructure further, impoverished the
population and harmed the fragile physical environment and its eco-
balance. The population of vulnerable groups such as widows,



unaccompanied children, female headed households, increased
rapidly. Due to the targeting of males for killing in the genocide,
the country is now predominantly female, with an estimated 60
percent of the population. The events decimated institutional
capacity and the active labor force. The Government lost most of
its experienced and qualified civil servants, who were killed or
fled the country. The private sector also lost considerable human
and physical capital.
3.      Before the events of 1994, the Rwandan economy was on the
decline. The per capita income had declined from US$380 in 1988 to
US$250 in 1993 and US$150 in 1994. The social indicators, which
used to be above Sub-Saharan Africa averages, deteriorated in the
late 80s. The share of social sectors in recurrent expenditures
reached 38 percent in 1985 but subsequently declined to 20 percent
in 1993, and 24 percent of a much smaller recurrent expenditure in
1995. Social services were restored fairly rapidly after the war,
with the financial and technical assistance of donors and NGOs.
However, the social sectors suffer from an acute lack of capacity
such as doctors, medical technicians and nurses in the health
sector, and teachers at all levels of the education system. More
than 50 percent of the primary school teachers are untrained and
the secondary and university levels lack qualified instructors. The
poor capacity in the social sector, due in part to the poor wages
in government service, is a severe impediment to the provision of
social services.
4.      Since the end of the war, progress has been made in
resettling internally displaced persons and in enhancing peace and
security. After a long delay, the trials of persons detained for
alleged involvement in the genocide started in late 1996 but the
task of trying the over 100,000 in jail awaiting trial is
formidable for the still fragile justice system. Progress has been
made in the rehabilitation of institutional and economic
infrastructure, with assistance from donors, NGOs and multilateral
financial institutions. The civil service has been reconstituted,
and capacity building efforts are underway. The key economic
institutions, notably the Ministries of Finance and Economic
Planning and the central bank, the Banque Nationale du Rwanda
(BNR), have been rehabilitated and the budget system and public
investment program have been reinstated. In 1995, the GOR took the
initial steps at economic reform by liberalizing the trade and
exchange regime and in 1996, the National Assembly passed a law
that paves the way for the privatization of all state enterprises,
but progress in implementation has been slow.
5.      As a result of the progress outlined above, the economy has
partially recovered from the steep decline by 49 percent of real
GDP in 1994, and the increase in the inflation rate to 64 percent
per annum compared to 12 percent in 1993. Real GDP grew by 25
percent in 1995 and 13 percent in 1996. However, the real GDP in
1996 was only 72 percent of its 1990 level. Inflation has been
brought under control due to good fiscal and monetary management
and to external balance of payments and budget support, principally
from IDA, the IMF and African Development Bank (AfDB). The rate of
-2 -



inflation fell to 22 percent per annum in 1995, 5 percent on an
annual basis in October 1996, and an average of 9 percent for 1996.
6.      Government revenues, only about 4 percent of GDP in 1994,
rose to 7.1 percent and 9.6 percent in 1995 and 1996 respectively
and thus remains much below the 12-14 percent of GDP achieved
before the war. Thus, the fiscal situation continues to be very
precarious, with the fiscal deficit, excluding grants, equivalent
to 14 percent of GDP. The insecurity in the country and region has
made military spending onerous, at an equivalent of 5.5 percent of
GDP in 1996, and an expected 4.2 percent of GDP in 1997. The burden
of external and internal public debt is very high, with total
external debt at US$1.1 billion or 84 percent of GDP and scheduled
external debt service ratio of 41 percent in 1996. Eighty three
percent of the debt is owed to multilateral creditors. Total
domestic debt is estimated at US$310 million. The Government is not
current in debt service and continues to accumulate external and
domestic debt service arrears, estimated at US$79 million and US$62
million respectively in end 1996.
7.      Impact and Needs. With the return of the majority of the
refugees, Rwanda is now in a position to squarely face the
challenges of national reintegration and reconciliation while
consolidating the progress made in economic recovery and stability
and in building institutional capacity. These are enormous
challenges in the fragile social and economic situation in Rwanda.
The immediate priority is the resettlement and reintegration of the
returned 1.3 million new case load refugees, the old case load
refugees, and the large number of victims of the genocide. Priority
needs are for permanent shelter, support for building sustainable
livelihoods, provision of education and health services, improved
justice and security, capacity building and food aid. The programs
and budgets to resettle and reintegrate refugees, in place before
November 1996, were based on a much slower rate of inflow of
refugees and could not cope with their sudden and massive return.
The Government needed a coherent emergency program and immediate
budget assistance to cope with these urgent needs.
8.      Permanent Settlements. Consistent with the policy of the
government that returning new case load refugees have the right to
reclaim their properties from those who occupied them in their
absence, many new case load returnees have been able to return to
their old communities and exercised the right. However, this has
led to the displacement of those old case load refugees who
occupied these properties and made it imperative to resettle them
permanently. In anticipation of the eventual return of the new case
load refugees, a number of rural and urban sites were earmarked for
the resettlement of old case load refugees. The GOR planned to
support the construction of rural and urban housing, to supplement
those being built/rehabilitated under self-help schemes supported
by relief agencies and NGOs, and the rehabilitation of houses for
victims of genocide and returned new case load refugees. However
the GOR lacked funding to start the housing program and it has now
intensified its search for financial assistance.
- 3 -



9.      Sustainable Livelihoods. Reintegration of the returned
refugees and other vulnerable groups involves a rapid transition
from dependence on relief to economic self-reliance. Most returned
refugees have their roots in agriculture. For them, agriculture is
the quickest way for employment and income. An estimated 200,000
households was expected to return to agriculture. These households
need farm implements, seeds and other inputs to re-enter into
agricultural production. Besides, the availability of non-farm
employment and income generating activities will also facilitate
the transition to normal productive lives. Creation of private
sector jobs and opportunities for self-employment is therefore an
essential element of the reintegration. Improved rural roads and
transport are needed for the farmers in new and existing
settlements to have access to markets.
10.     Social Infrastructure. Progress has been made in repairing
the damage of the social infrastructure by the events of 1994. This
fragile infrastructure is faced with the task of providing services
to an increased population. An estimated 200,000 school-age
children, about 20 percent of current primary school enrollment,
returned from the refugee camps and need to be enrolled in school.
Additional teachers, rehabilitation and construction of schools,
in-service teacher training, printing and distribution of books,
and supplies for teachers and pupils are needed. Immediate actions
for the health sector include the rehabilitation and re-equipment
of facilities, training of health personnel, provision of
medicines, vaccines and other supplies, and funds for operations
and maintenance. Many qualified people have returned from exile;
these could be employed in the social sector to ease its capacity
constraints. This will only be possible if funds are made available
from the national budget.
11.     Justice and security. The transition from war to peace
requires a stable social environment. The well-being of both new
and old case load returnees and peaceful coexistence in the
communes are essential for smooth reintegration. Resources are
required to reinforce the judicial system to carry out the genocide
trials and other criminal and civil judicial functions, to enhance
the policing capacity at the communal level, and to support local
administrations to promote reconciliation between the resident
population and the returnees. An awareness-raising campaign,
emphasizing respect for the rule of law, will be launched.
12.     Capacity building Capacity building to enable national,
prefecture and commune level institutions and organizations to use
resources effectively, ensure sustainability, and empower the
beneficiaries, is of paramount importance for reintegration.
Capacity-building is needed to develop sustainable development
strategies at commune and prefecture levels; to accelerate the
shift from emergency assistance (saving lives) to development
assistance (sustaining livelihoods); to empower the civil society
and civic associations at the local level; and to ensure that all
elements of society play a vital role in the rehabilitation and
reconstruction of the country.
-4-



13.     Food Aid. Rwanda has experienced food deficits since 1990 due
to civil strife and declining agricultural productivity. The
drought in parts of the country in 1996, combined with the massive
return of refugees has increased the food deficit and the need for
food-aid. While necessary in an emergency such as this, food aid
tends to distort markets and prices and undermine the adjustment in
domestic production needed to move out of food aid dependency. The
Bank, with the collaboration of donors and relief agencies, has
worked out a framework for monetization of food aid, to help limit
its adverse consequences on the economy. The counterpart funds from
the monetization will be used to fund relief, and recurrent and
development budget expenditures.
The Response of the Government and the International Community.
14.     A GOR-Donor meeting was held in Geneva on November 23, 1996,
during which the Government requested assistance for an "Emergency
Program for the Resettlement and Reintegration in the Context of
the Present Massive Return of Refugees". The Government's strategy
for the emergency is to link short-term humanitarian relief with
the medium-term reintegration and reconstruction and longer-term
reconciliation and sustainable development, requiring that
emergency interventions be undertaken within the existing
development framework, and thus be well coordinated. A joint
Bank/UN/GOR Assessment (JAM) mission in December 1996 assisted the
GOR to develop the Emergency Reintegration and Reconstruction
Program (ERRP), a sectoral and community level program aimed at
resettlement, reintegration and national reconciliation. ERRP will
help affected populations acquire permanent shelter, engage in
sustainable means of livelihood, have access to social services,
and participate in the social and political activities in their
communities.
15.     ERRP envisages two phases. The first phase concentrates on
providing immediate assistance to the returnees with food, shelter
and economic and social services. The second phase would focus on
enhancing social services, housing development, rural and urban
infrastructure, national and local capacity building, income
generating activities, and justice and security based on
coordinated national and community interventions. Sectoral projects
by the central government will be complemented by community-based
projects which will help to strengthen communities, rebuild social
capital, directly address rural poverty, and lay the foundations
for national reconciliation and sustainable development.
16.     A joint Bank/Fund/AfDB mission visited Rwanda in
January/February 1997 and assisted the GOR to integrate the
interventions identified by the JAM mission into the budget
framework and assess the financing requirements for the budget for
1997. Taking into account the impact of the massive return of
refugees, the final recurrent budget has a financing gap, exclusive
of external and internal debt arrears, of US$109 million (7 percent
of GDP). New projects from the ERRP for housing, agricultural
development, education and health services, capacity building, and
community/rural development were added to the development budget to
- 5 -



complement the existing reintegration-related projects. The joint
mission also negotiated with the Government a policy document:
Post-Conflict Reconstruction: Framework for Economic Policies (FEP)
which set out the macroeconomic framework, and the policy and
institutional reform measures to be undertaken in 1997-98
17.     The GOR has approached bilateral donors, the European Union
and the multilateral financial institutions for assistance in
financing the emergency needs. The Government has planned a
thematic consultation on reintegration for June/July 1997 with its
donor partners to discuss and seek financing for the ERRP. A number
of donors--the USAID, the EU, Canada, and Denmark--have sent
missions to Kigali to discuss with the Government areas of
assistance. The IMF Board approved on April 22, 1997, an emergency
US$20 million post-conflict assistance for Rwanda and intends to
provide additional resources through an ESAF in late 1997. To this
end, the Bank, the Fund and the GOR will prepare a PFP to set out
the medium-term reform framework. Once the ESAF is in place, the
GOR will request a rescheduling from the Paris Club of its external
debt arrears and current maturities on Naples terms. The AfDB plans
to provide a new budget support credit in early 1998.
18.     The priority however, is to finance the recurrent budget gap
of 1997. Financing identified so far to cover the $109 million
budget gap is $30.4 million comprising $16.5 million from the EU,
$3.6 million from ongoing Dutch funding for IDA debt service, and
$10.2 million from the ongoing AfDB balance of payments support
operation. With the US$50 million from the ERRC and an additional
US$10 million from the commodity monetization program, US$18.5
million remain to be identified. The Government is working with the
Bretton Woods institutions and the UNDP to secure funding for this
gap as well as the development budget gap.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
19.     The IDA Emergency Grant of August 1994 and the IDA Emergency
Recovery Credit (ERC), approved by the by the Board in January 1995
greatly facilitated the rapid recovery and stabilization of the
economy after the events of 1994. The Emergency Grant supported
both humanitarian and economic rehabilitation activities. The
foreign exchange from the ERC helped to revive private sector
production and employment, and the counterpart funds enabled the
Government to restore some operational capacity and provide social
services. The credit is fully disbursed except for the small
technical assistance component for strengthening economic
management, which will be completed before the end of 1997.
20.     The proposed ERRC is part of the continuing effort by the
Bank to play a constructive role in the international effort at
reconstruction and rapid economic recovery, and the reinforcement
of peace and stability in Rwanda and the Great Lakes region
generally. The World Bank's participation in the emergency program
is important for encouraging the donors to contribute to its
financing. The ERRC will finance private sector imports and the
counterpart funds will enable the Government to finance basic
- 6 -



social and economic services to the recent returnees and the
existing population, facilitating the rapid transition to
productive economic and social life. The expansion of private
sector economic activity will create employment which would
reinforce the reintegration effort. Overall, the ERRC will enhance
macroeconomic growth and stability.
The proposed emergency credit
21.     The need of Rwanda for budget support is urgent and a quick-
disbursing emergency operation is the most appropriate instrument
to provide assistance. It has the advantage that it can be
delivered quickly. The alternatives -- a rehabilitation import
credit and a structural adjustment credit -- will require more time
to prepare and therefore unlikely to meet the financing needs of
1997. The Government will continue to implement policy and
institutional reform, based on the Framework for Economic Policies,
developed jointly with the staff of the Bank and the Fund. The
Bretton Woods institutions will support the GOR's reform efforts
with assistance for studies and consensus building through
information, education, and communications programs.
22.     The proposed amount for the credit is US$50 million of quick
disbursing import support. The credit amount is based on (i) the
size of the budget gap and the expected contributions from other
sources; (ii) the size of private sector imports; and (iii) the
experience of the last emergency credit. From the indications of
what bilateral donors are able to contribute, a sizable
contribution would be needed from the Bank to be able to
substantially narrow the funding gap. As private sector imports
amount to about US$200 million per year, and with exports of less
than US$100 million per year, the private sector can absorb the
proposed amount of foreign exchange within the twelve months during
which the credit is expected to disburse. For the ERC, the amount
of about US$45 million was easily used up in approximately 15 months.
23.     The proceeds of the credit will finance 100 percent of the
costs, including direct cost, insurance and freight, of goods
imported by the private sector from eligible sources based on a
positive list of goods. The selection of eligible imports will be
guided by (i) relevance to the emergency; (ii) importance to
economic reconstruction and development; and (iii) contribution to
economic and social activity. Pre-shipment inspection for quality,
quantity and price will be required. The counterparts funds from
the imports will go to support the general government budget. Since
the return of the refugees in November 1996, the Government has
faced a severe financial constraint and has had to postpone budget
expenditures. As the credit will be effective only in the second
half of 1997, a retroactive withdrawal of up to 25% of the credit
amount covering a 4-month-period prior to the date of the signing
of the credit agreement will be recommended. Based on the
experience of the Emergency Recovery Credit, we expect the funds to
be fully disbursed within 12 months.
24.     The current IDA portfolio of projects has largely been
- 7 -



restructured to meet high priority needs of the country, such as
health immunization, rehabilitation of rural schools and health
centers, provision of water and sanitation services, capacity and
institution building, and economic reform. Projects in education,
health, infrastructure, social action fund, and private sector
development, will continue to be used to meet emergency needs, with
restructuring where necessary. Funds from the social action fund
project will be used to pilot, in 1997, community-based actions, as
proposed in the ERRP. On policy reform such as privatization of
parastatals, the pace has been slow and there is still need for
clear government leadership.
Lessons from Other Emergency Operations
25.     The lessons learned from the Emergency Recovery Credit (ERC)
[Cr 2678 RWI as well as from similar operations in post-conflict
situations have been incorporated into the design of the program
and credit. The ERC was to (i) provide the GOR with the resources
to begin the restoration of key economic and social services and
rebuild institutional capacity, and (ii) provide the private sector
with the foreign exchange to resume operations and create jobs.
Project effectiveness was delayed because the GOR failed to meet
the required condition: to recruit a procurement agent to assist in
public sector procurement of goods to be financed by the credit.
The implementation was able to proceed only after a modification of
the DCA which allowed the disbursement for private sector imports
to proceed. Eventually, the government requested and the Bank
agreed to reallocate the public sector component to finance private
sector imports only. Thereafter, the project disbursed rapidly and
was successful in achieving its objectives. The most important
lesson from this experience is to keep the design of the project
simple, building on the procedures that worked well for ERC. The
second lesson is to ensure Government commitment to any agreements
and understandings at the outset. The Bank's Resident mission staff
were deeply involved in the design of the ERRP and this operation
and therefore will be well suited to coordinate the implementation.
26.     The design of the ERRC has benefited from accumulated
experience in post conflict reconstruction. In designing the
overall emergency program, the Bretton Woods institutions and the
UNDP sent joint missions with strong post-conflict background to
work with the Government.
Implementation of the emergency credit
27.     The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning will have the
overall responsibility for the implementation of the credit. The
Ministry will appoint an officer, at the level of Director or above
to coordinate the implementation. The relevant services in the
central bank, the BNR, will be assigned the responsibility for
collecting the eligible import documents, and preparing statements
of expenditures and requests for reimbursement. Disbursement of the
proceeds of the credit will be on a reimbursement basis and there
will be no special account into which IDA would advance funds.
Disbursement will be by statements of expenditure for eligible
- 8 -



imports contracts under US$2 million. Supporting documentation will
be kept locally to enable supervision by Bank staff in the field
and by auditors acceptable to the Bank. Based on the experience of
the Emergency Recovery Credit, the funds are expected to be fully
disbursed within 12 months.
Environmental Aspects
28.     The implementation of the ERRC is not expected to have any
negative environmental impact. No environmental assessment is
required and is therefore placed in Category C.
Risks of the Proposed Approach
29.     The two main risks to the consolidation of social and
economic recovery, which this operation is to support, are
operational and security related. On the operational side, the main
risks are the lack of government commitment to the 1997 budget, the
main instrument for financing resettlement and reintegration and
economic recovery, and the lack of capacity and budget discipline
which could jeopardize budget implementation. However, the
experience of the last two years of budget management indicates
that the risks are small. The GOR takes the budget estimates
seriously and the ministries make the effort to contain spending
within the budget estimates. The Ministry of Finance has developed
the capacity to monitor budget expenditures and the relevant
information is available on time to make necessary mid-course
corrections. Another operational risk relates to underfunding of
the program by external partners, in which case, the expected
benefits will not be realized.
30.     Escalation of insecurity is a big risk to any economic
program in Rwanda. Even with full international support for the
reintegration and reconciliation program of the Government, a
deterioration of the national security situation would seriously
undermine the implementation and outcomes from the program. With
serious insecurity, Government would likely move budget resources
from developmental programs to the military and reestablishing
government control would have priority over reintegration and
economic recovery. Thus the old and new case load refugees would
not be successfully integrated into the society, national
reconciliation would be made even more difficult, and the economic
assistance would not be effective. The current assessment by donors
assisting Rwanda is that it is appropriate to undertake economic
assistance in the current environment while being aware of the
risks of possible escalation of insecurity or the onset of outright
conflict. The absence of assistance at this point could well lead
to an aggravation of the crisis and damage the basis for eventual
sustainable growth.
1/      The new name of the country, which until May 1997, was known
as Zaire.
9



Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 20, 1997.
- 10 -



