Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-7149-RW
THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
EMERGENCY REINTEGRATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
June 11, 1997



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                                   Iwaida 1ranc (1?w F)
US$ 1.00                                                        Hwl,M'd(0(,(avt(<rage fol 199(G)
SDR I                                                                !.,; 1w1
SYSTEM OF WEIGHT AND MEASURES
MetriJc 11, (I oi Va, nt
I meter (in)                                                      28 if(t (ft)
1 hectare (ha)                                                  ' 17 acres (a)
FISCAL YEAR
Januarrx I - Decelmlr he  I
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB                               African                Bankel , in tnt [Aa n k
BNR                                Banque Natit)lowl c (ILt Rwandal (tentr iad bank)
ERC                                Ejmnrt>,encv le(ovi vx (l Cre(it
ERRC                               Eiriergencv Rei nto- ration and ILRecovery ('redit
ERRP                               Emerre nic Re in teogrationand Rec(ionstruction P'rogrrnam
ESAF-I                             Enha:nced Struc lural Adjustment Facility
ESW                                Econlomill' &-ind Sec tor VN(o)rk
EUl                                 European LTnion
FEP1                                Framewoark f(o Fc onomic Poliieis
(G)P                               Gross [)omestic Product.
(,.)R                              Government )t  x a n(da
I )A                               Internittional I Xx elopment \s5oeiatii
IDF                                Institutional )ev(t lo(mintn [Llnldi (World Bank)
IEC                                Infiormnation.  dXi utation and (Coinmmulnications
IFAD                               Lnterniatjional tu itl li  Agriculto al I)evelopment
IMF                                International NI mntavr F'Und]
JAM                                Joint;\ssessment Mission
NGO                                Non Govermiwntntl Organization
ODA (UK)                           Overseas 1)eveltp(m)lent Admini-t,iaition ( lJK)
PFP                                Polex Frame work Paper
SAC                                Strutl l rl . \dho-,i1 mell t Cr-edit,
SSA                                Sub-Sal lh .a llA.f: 
tTN                                United Nations
UNI)P                              United Naitlo1io lieve lop ment Pio-iamin
USAI D                             Uniltcd St At s     nc'V aoi Internatjiona il D)evelopment
Vice President                             C Madavo
Director                                   N Tchevan
Division Chief. Manager  :                 1 arIvonc
Staff Member                               C ()hidegwu, Sr Economist



RWANDA EMERGENCY REINTEGRATION
AND RECOVERY CREDIT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
1-BACKGROUND                                                                                      1
Origin of the Program and Project                                                              I
Government's Strategy for Reintegration, Reconstruction and Development                        2
International Response to the Crisis                                                           4
World Bank Response                                                                            5
II - ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONTEXT                                                                  6
Recent Macroeconomic Developments                                                              6
Poverty and Social Indicators                                                                  7
The 1997 Government Budget                                                                     8
Progress in Economic Reform                                                                   12
III - THE EMERGENCY REINTEGRATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM (ERRP)  12
Rationale and Objectives                                                                      12
Sectoral Objectives and Strategies for the ERRP                                               13
Estimated Program Costs                                                                       17
IV - IDA PROJECT AND IMPLEMENTATION PLAN                                                         17
Objectives of the IDA support                                                                 17
Project Description                                                                           18
Implementation Arrangements                                                                   18
V - ANNEXES                                                                                      20
Status of Bank's Operations                                                                   20
List of Imports to be financed under the Credit                                               23
List of Imports to be financed under the Credit (contd)                                       24
This Report is based on the findings of a joint WB/UN/GOR emergency assessment mission in December 2-15,
1996 and a WB/IMF/AfDB joint economic mission in January 20-February 7, 1997. The assessment mission
was co-led by R. Venkateswaran, World Bank Resident Representative in Rwanda, Omar Bakhet, UN Resident
Coordinator, Rwanda, and Ephraim Kabaija, Adviser, Office of the President of Rwanda. Other World Bank
participants in the assessment mission were Nat Colletta, Markus Kostner, Chukwuma Obidegwu, Steve
Holtzman, Jean Doyen, Marie-Chantal Uwanyigilira, Prosper Nindorera, Francois Kanimba, Aubert Zohore, and
Denis Gravel. For the economic mission, the World Bank team consisted of Chukwuma Obidegwu, Francois
Kanimba and Angele Whittaker. The Ad Hoc Advisory Committee for the emergency operation consisted of
Peter Miovic (EDI), Michael Sarris (AFC08), Barbara Santos (LEGEC), Wei Ding (EC2CO), P. Hari Prasad
(AFTS2), Pedro De Blas (LEGAF), and Francois Nankobogo (AFCO9). The appraisal mission consisted of
Chukwuma Obidegwu (mission leader), Pedro De Blas, and Francois Kanimba. The work on the missions and
the preparation of this operation was carried out under the general direction of Nils Tcheyan, Country Director.



I



RWANDESE REPUBLIC
EMERGENCY REINTEGRATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
I - BACKGROUND
Origin of the Program and Project
1.    Between 1990 and 1994, Rwanda suffered from civil war, genocide, and massive
displacement of the population. The genocide of 1994 led to a loss of over half a million lives,
and the civil war that followed resulted in the flight of about 2 million Rwandans to Democratic
Republic of Congo', Burundi and Tanzania. The refugees included the government officials,
military officers and members of the militia who masterminded and carried out the genocide. A
government of national unity, formed in July 1994 after the civil war, affirmed its determination
to work for peace and national reconciliation, bring to justice the perpetrators of the genocide,
facilitate the resettlement of internally displaced persons and the return and re-integration of all
refugees, and reform and liberalize the economy. With the change in Government, 800,000 exiles
of past conflicts (old case load refugees), returned to Rwanda in 1994 and 1995. The Government
encouraged the refugees of 1994 (new case load refugees) to return, with assurances of their
security and right to the properties they left behind. Despite these assurances, for over two years,
the vast majority of these refugees remained in the camps outside Rwanda until civil wars in both
Burundi and Democratic Republic of Congo forced them to return to Rwanda. About sixty
thousand refugees returned from Burundi in August 1996, and a massive influx of an estimated
700,000 refugees from Democratic Republic of Congo took place within two weeks in November
1996. This was followed in December 1996 by the return of 500,000 refugees from Tanzania.
International efforts are currently underway to bring back an estimated 100,000 Rwandan
refugees stranded in Democratic Republic of Congo.
2.    The events of 1994 traumatized and impoverished the population, destroyed the country's
social fabric and institutional capacity, and damaged social and economic infrastructure and the
physical environment. The population of vulnerable persons, such as widows, unaccompanied
children, female headed households and refugees, increased substantially. The international
community--UN agencies, international NGOs, bilateral donors and multilateral institutions--
responded to the human calamity in Rwanda with substantial flows of humanitarian assistance.
However, the GOR often blamed the official international community for not responding rapidly
to the events in 1994.
3.    The new Government, with the support of the international community, quickly began to
address the social and economic problems, rehabilitate infrastructure and administrative, judicial
and social institutions. Progress was made in resettling internally displaced persons, reintegrating
some old case refugees and returned new case refugees, providing assistance and comfort to
vulnerable groups, and enhancing peace and security. Progress was also made in coping with the
The new name of the country, which until May 1997, was known as Zaire.



2
adverse impact of the war on the economy. The key economic institutions, notably the National
Bank of Rwanda (BNR), and the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning have been partially
rehabilitated, enabling the Government to reinstate the budget and the public investment
program, embark on economic policy reform, and improve revenue administration. As a result of
these efforts, the economy has recovered somewhat from the steep decline of 1994.
Government's Strategy for Reintegration, Reconstruction and Development
4.    The immediate challenges that faced the new Government in 1994 were to: (i) foster
national reconciliation and facilitate the return, resettlement and reintegration of refugees (ii)
rebuild the country's institutions and capacities; and (iii) stimulate economic recovery and lay
the basis for sustained growth and development. In January 1995 the GOR presented its Program
of National Reconciliation, Rehabilitation and Socio-economic Recovery to a Round Table
Conference for the Reconstruction of Rwanda, held in Geneva in January 1995. The program,
subsequently redefined in the June 1996-Round Table document, contained the following
elements: the preservation of an atmosphere of peace and security; the restoration and
strengthening of national unity; the repatriation, resettlement and social reintegration of refugees;
the improvement in the living conditions of the population, especially the orphans, widows,
handicapped, and the other victims of the genocide and war of 1994; the development of the
national economy; and the development of human resources.
5.    The Government is committed to ending the impunity associated with violence which
characterized Rwandan society. It is therefore determined to bring to justice those responsible for
the genocide of 1994. About 100,000 suspects have been detained for genocide-related crimes.
The start of the trials of the detainees was delayed because the appropriate laws had to be put in
place and the judicial system, which was practically wiped out by the events of 1994, had to be
rebuilt. With the assistance of donors, progress has been made in these two areas. This has
allowed the trials to start in October 1996. In addition to the domestic proceedings, the
International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, set up by the UN to prosecute leaders of the
genocide living in exile, has indicted 20 suspects and the trials started in September 1996.
6.    With the return of the majority of the refugees, Rwanda needs to intensify efforts on
national reconciliation and nation-building while consolidating the progress made in economic
recovery and stability and in building institutional capacity. These are enormous challenges in
the fragile social and economic situation in Rwanda. The Government intends to rapidly resettle
and reintegrate the returned new case load refugees, and the old case load refugees and victims of
genocide who still need to be resettled. Priority needs are for permanent shelter; support for
building sustainable livelihoods including the provision of seeds, farm implements and inputs for
agriculture; education and health services; improved justice and security; capacity building and
food aid. Lack of prompt action to resettle and reintegrate the refugees will increase poverty and
environmental degradation, weaken the economic recovery and stabilization already underway,
and increase tension and conflict which the society has little capacity to absorb.
7.    The sudden and massive return of refugees in late 1996 put enormous pressure on the
programs designed for the resettlement of the refugees which were based on a much slower rate



3
of inflow of refugees. The GOR and the international relief agencies responded quickly to
provide for the immediate needs to the returnees pending the design of a coherent emergency
reintegration program. Following the first wave of the massive inflow of refugees, a GOR-donor
meeting was held in Geneva on November 23, 1996 where the Government requested assistance
for an "Emergency Program for the Resettlement and Reintegration in the Context of the
Present Massive Return of Refugees". The Government's strategy for the emergency program
was to link short-term humanitarian relief with the medium-term reintegration and reconstruction
and longer-term reconciliation and sustainable development. The strategy required that
emergency interventions be undertaken within the existing development framework; and that
reintegration efforts should strengthen longer-term reconciliation and development interventions,
and contribute to capacity building of national and local institutions.
8.    A joint Bank/UN/GOR Assessment (JAM) mission in December 1996 assisted the GOR
in designing the Emergency Reintegration and Reconstruction Program (ERRP), to enable
the country move from humanitarian relief onto the path of reintegration and reconstruction, and
facilitate the transition to sustainable development. To this end, the program would focus on
enhancing social services, development of housing and rural and urban infrastructure, national
and local capacity building, income generating activities, and justice and security based on
coordinated community and national interventions. The program emphasizes community-based
interventions, including at commune levels, which would enable the beneficiaries to determine
their priorities and participate in implementation. These programs would complement sectoral
projects by the central government and help to strengthen communities, rebuild social capital by
galvanizing communities around mutually beneficial activities, directly address rural poverty,
and lay the foundations for national reconciliation and sustainable development.
9.    A joint Bank/Fund/African Development Bank (AfDB) mission visited Rwanda in
January/February 1997 and assisted the GOR to integrate the emergency interventions identified
by the JAM mission into the budget framework and assess the financing requirements. The joint
mission also negotiated with the Government a policy document: Post-Conflict Reconstruction:
Framework for Economic Policies (FEP) which set out the macroeconomic framework, and the
policy and institutional reform measures to be undertaken in the 1997-98 in the context of the
transition program.
10.   Rwanda faces formidable development challenges; the most formidable is putting an end
to the cycle of violence which has plagued the country and the region in the last forty years.
Without peace and stability, the sustained economic growth that Rwanda needs to reduce poverty
and raise the living conditions of its people will not take place. Furthermore, sustained economic
growth will only come from high productivity growth, which requires good policies, investments
in knowledge to improve agricultural practices and technology, savings and investment to create
productive capital, the protection of the environment, building the capacity of the labor force,
enhancing the role of women, protecting property rights, increasing the efficiency of the public
sector and developing the private sector.
11.  In the short-run, the priorities of the Government are the resettlement and reintegration of
refugees and victims of genocide, national reconciliation, and rapid economic recovery. In the



4
post-war economic recovery program, the GOR sought rapid economic growth which would
enable economic activity to reach its 1993 level by the end of 1998, implying a real economic
growth rate of 15 percent p.a. in 1996-1998. Growth of the economy in 1996-98 is likely to be in
the range of 10- 13 percent, assuming the rapid reintegration of the returned refugees into
productive activities. Thus the goal of attaining the pre-war level of economic activity may take a
little longer than planned.
12.   For the longer-term, poverty reduction is to be addressed through increases in agricultural
incomes, creation of rural non-farm employment, improved social and economic services and
protection of the environment. The development strategy is based on private sector-led growth in
a liberal, market oriented economy, limited but effective role for the state, emphasis on rural
development, and a macroeconomic environment favorable to growth and equity. The
Government has endorsed the pre-war growth with poverty reduction economic reform agenda
and is committed to broadening and implementing the necessary reforms. In addition the
Government intends to undertake legal reforms and strengthen the legal institutions that are
essential to establish and protect property rights, enforce contracts, and provide security of
persons and property. In pursuit of its development objectives, GOR intends to restructure its
expenditures to focus on capacity building and provision of economic and social services, while
encouraging private and NGO delivery of these services.
International Response to the Crisis
13.   The international community responded to the events of 1994 with financial and material
assistance, initially with primarily humanitarian assistance. At the January 1995 Round Table
Conference, the international community pledged about US$700 million for humanitarian and
development assistance to Rwanda. By December 31, 1995 the pledges reached US$1.2 billion.
IDA, IMF, AfDB and some bilateral donors provided quick disbursing import/budget support
which supported the restoration of the operational capacity of government and stimulated
economic recovery. Another Round Table Conference was held in 1996, at which the
Government and the donors discussed further actions for rebuilding Rwanda and the related
needs for assistance. Donors pledged US$536 million at the conference. It is estimated that
around $1.0 billion were disbursed in 1995-1996 by the international community for the
reconstruction of Rwanda. In addition, until October 1996, the international relief agencies were
spending about one million US dollars per day for the upkeep of the refugee camps for
Rwandans in exile.
14.   Many bilateral donors--Belgium, USAID, ODA (UK), Netherlands, Germany, France, the
European Union and Japan, and practically all the multilateral development and humanitarian
agencies have resumed activity in Rwanda. In the risky post conflict environment, external
assistance needs to be well coordinated to be an effective instrument for rapid change. The
Bretton Woods Institutions are working closely with the UNDP particularly on donor
coordination for economic reform, post-conflict reconstruction, and external debt management.
Since the end of the war, the UJNDP organized the two Round Table Conferences which provided
the GOR the opportunity to discuss its programs and needs with the international community as
well as raise close to US$1.8 billion for the country.



5
15.   Donor Support for the Present Emergency. The GOR has approached bilateral donors,
the European Union and the multilateral financial institutions for assistance in financing the
emergency program. A thematic consultation on reintegration between the GOR and its external
partners is planned for June/July 1997 to discuss the ERRP and seek financing for it. A number
of donors--the USAID, the EU, Canada, and Denmark-- have sent missions to Kigali to discuss
with the Government areas of assistance. The AfDB has indicated that it will provide budget
support in early 1998. The IMF Board approved on April 22, 1997, an emergency post-conflict
assistance of US$20 million to Rwanda. The IMF intends to provide further resources through
and ESAF planned for the end of 1997 and, to this end, the Bank, the IMF and the GOR will
prepare a PFP to set out the medium-term reform framework. Once the ESAF is in place, the
GOR will request from the Paris Club a rescheduling of its external debt arrears and current
maturities on the Naples terms.
16.   The Role of NGOs. Since the genocide, NGOs have been active in providing social
services to the rural population and humanitarian aid to vulnerable groups, building local
capacity, and providing support for economic activities. The work of NGOs has made up for the
lack of capacity in Government to provide these services. Over 150 international NGOs are
currently operating in Rwanda. In 1995, the GOR was very dissatisfied with the services and
activities of some of the foreign NGOs and, in late 1995, it expelled 18 of them from Rwanda.
However, in 1996, the NGOs and the Government worked out a framework for cooperation, and
the international NGOs are continuing to provide critical resettlement and reintegration services
as well as humanitarian relief.
World Bank Response
17.   Since the end of the war, the Bank has supported economic and social recovery. The
Emergency Grant of August 1994 and the IDA Emergency Recovery Credit (ERC), approved by
the Board in January 1995, provided humanitarian and economic rehabilitation assistance and
facilitated the rapid recovery and stabilization of the economy. The ERC helped to revive private
sector production and restore the GOR's operational capacity to provide social and economic
services. In addition to the emergency assistance, the Bank has supported rehabilitation and
socio-economic recovery by restructuring and implementing the existing portfolio of investment
projects to meet high priority needs such as health immunization, rehabilitation of rural schools
and health centers, provision of water and sanitation services, capacity and institution building,
and economic reform. As a result, the undisbursed portion of the investment portfolio has
declined from US$188.6 million at the end of 1994 to US$116 million in March 1997.
18.   The Bank, in collaboration with the UTNDP, IMF and AfDB, assisted the GOR to work
out a strategy and a coherent package of measures to support reintegration, reconstruction and
economic recovery. The Bank's contribution to the recurrent budget, through the proposed
emergency reintegration and recovery credit, will assist the Government to deliver key social and
economic services to returning refugees and the existing population to facilitate the transition
from refugee status to normal productive lives. The Bank expects to support, in the context of
coordinated international assistance, the Government's efforts on reintegration, economic



6
reconstruction and recovery, capacity building and human resource development, and policy and
institutional reform.
II - ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONTEXT
19.   Significant progress has been made in economic recovery and stabilization, and the
rehabilitation of social, institutional and economic infrastructure. The massive return of refugees
puts these achievements at risk unless Rwanda receives assistance to rapidly reintegrate these
refugees into productive economic and social life. Because of the need to deal with the problems
arising from the genocide and war, limited effort has been made to tackle the structural problems
that make Rwanda poor.
Recent Macroeconomic Developments
20.   Rwanda's per capita income declined from a high of US$380 in 1988/89 to US$250 in
1993. As a result of the genocide and civil war of 1994, the per capita income fell sharply to
US$150, making Rwanda one the poorest countries in the world. In 1994, real GDP declined by
49 percent and the inflation rate was 64 percent per annum compared to 12 percent in 1993.
Economic activity rebounded in 1995 with real GDP growth of 25 percent, followed by 13
percent in 1996. However, the real GDP in 1996 was only 72 percent of its 1990 level. Inflows of
budget support, principally from the IDA, the IMF and the AfDB, and prudent fiscal and
monetary management helped to reduce inflation to 22 percent per annum in 1995, 5 percent on
an annual basis in October 1996, and an average of 9 percent for 1996.
21.   Government revenues, only about 4 percent in 1994, rose to 7.1 percent and 9.6 percent
in 1995 and 1996 respectively. This is still much below the 12-13 percent of GDP achieved
before the war. As GDP in 1996 was only 72 percent of the 1990 GDP, government revenue in
1996 was 58 percent of the 1990 level. Thus the fiscal situation is precarious, with heavy
dependence on foreign aid. The overall fiscal deficit, excluding grants is equivalent to 14 percent
of GDP. As a result the domestic and regional insecurity, military spending is onerous and
represented an equivalent of 5.5 percent of GDP in 1996. The burden of external and internal
public debt is very high, with total external debt at US$ 1.1 billion or 84 percent of GDP in 1996
and scheduled external debt service ratio of 41 percent in 1996. Eight three percent of the debt is
owed to multilateral creditors. Total domestic debt is estimated at US$3 10 million. The
Government is not current in debt service and continues to accumulate external and domestic
debt service arrears, estimated at US$79 million and US$62 million respectively in end 1996.
The Government has been accumulating external and domestic debt service arrears, estimated at
US$79 million and US$62 million respectively in end 1996.
22.   The impact of the return of refugees on economic performance in 1997 is expected to
be significantly positive. The return of 1.3 million persons, equivalent to over 200,000
households, to principally to the rural areas, is expected to boost production of food crops in the
second harvest season of 1997. This assumes that returning farmers would have been assisted,
with seeds and farm implements and inputs and will have access to land to resume production.
The secondary sector (industry, energy, mines, and construction), with 17 percent of GDP, is



7
projected to grow by rapidly, driven by construction and rehabilitation of housing for the
resettlement of returning refugees. These are the key factors in the projected real GDP growth
rate of 12 percent in 1997.
23.  Inflationary pressures have been successfully reduced over the last two years. The annual
rate of inflation in October 1996 was 5.0 percent. However, with the massive return of refugees
in November, the prices of the major consumer good, particularly foods, experienced significant
increases. It was estimated that between the first and second halves of November, prices of
consumer goods rose an average of 7 percent. These price pressures were due primarily to
increased demand for goods and services from returning refugees, as many of them came back to
Rwanda with money, and significant increases in the inflows of foreign exchange from donors,
relief agencies, foreign NGOs, foreign visitors and tourists, which were used to buy domestic
goods and services. It appears that these inflationary pressures have been contained and the
inflation rate for 1997 is expected to be about 7 percent per annum.
24.   The massive return of refugees is unlikely to cause any significant shifts in the structure
of the balance of payments. In the short-run, imports will increase, driven by the expansion of
economic activity, the increase in food aid and externally financed humanitarian and
development assistance. To the extent that the aid-related activities are fully financed by donors,
the impact on the overall external balance will be from the rise in commercial imports. The
estimate of the current account balance, before grants, is 18.7 percent of GDP for 1997 compared
to 16.1 percent in 1996. The overall deficit is estimated to be US$100 million, not taking into
account the estimated US$79 million needed to cover the external debt arrears. The imbalance in
the external payments will rema n formidable and balance of payments support will be needed in
1997 and beyond.
25.   The manufacturing sector. The sector contributed 13.3 percent of GDP in 1991 and
14.5 percent in 1996. However, production in 1996 was estimated to be around 60 percent of the
1990 level. This reduced level of production reflects the problems facing the sector--the low
demand for goods manufactured in Rwanda due to the fall in personal income; the increased
competition from imports from neighboring countries, such as Uganda following the
liberalization of the trade and exchange regime; the lack of working capital due to the inability of
the firms to borrow; and the loss of markets in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo following
the deterioration of relations between the two countries and the civil war in Democratic Republic
of Congo. The insecurity in the Great Lakes Region has discouraged private investment needed
to rehabilitate and modernize Rwandan industries. The government does not have the resources
to rehabilitate and reactivate potentially viable public enterprises and has put together a strategy
for privatizing them. Those PEs which have ceased operations and are non-viable are to be
liquidated.
Poverty and Social Indicators
26.   Rwanda's population of 7.95 million (including the refugees) is growing at the rate of
about 3 percent per annum. The World Bank 1994 poverty assessment, completed just before the
crisis, showed that the percentage of the population living below the poverty line (US$170 at



8
1985 prices and exchange rates) rose sharply from 40 percent in 1985 to over 53 percent in 1993.
Most of the poor (98.6 percent) lived in rural areas, were engaged in small-holder agriculture,
and had large families. The poor derived 86 percent of their income from agriculture and
artisanal services compared to 75 percent for the non-poor. Forty one percent of female headed
households were below the poverty line compared to 39 percent for male headed households.
27.   Rwanda's social indicators used to be above the sub-Saharan Africa averages but
stagnated in the late 1980s. For instance, life expectancy rose from 46 years in 1982 to only 47
years in 1993 compared to the average of 48 and 52 years for SSA respectively. Secondary
school gross enrollment, at 8 percent, is one of the lowest in the continent. The AIDS epidemic is
one of the worst in the world (over 20% of the population is seropositive), and the incidence of
malaria remains high. Government expenditures on social sectors declined from the late 1980s
due to rising military spending. The share in total recurrent expenditures declined from about 38
percent in 1985 to about 20 percent in 1992 and 1995. The events of 1884 led to massive
disruption of social services. Large numbers of social sector workers were killed or fled the
country and facilities and equipment were damaged or lost.
28.   The events of 1994 which led to a sharp decline in economic activities and per capita
income, and to large increases in the numbers of vulnerable populations and has undoubtedly
aggravated p',verty. As in other post-conflict economies, the ongoing economic recovery,
supported by donor funds, is having a positive impact on the urban economy but the rural
economy has remained largely depressed. The impact of the massive return of refugees on per
capita income and poverty will be negative in the short-run. The duration of this negative impact
will depend on how rapidly the refugees are integrated into economic and social life and begin to
participate fully in economic production.
The 1997 Government Budget
29.   Draft ordinary and development budgets for 1997, prepared before the massive return of
refugees in November 1996, had to be substantially revised to provide for the needs for returning
refugees. The two major reintegration-related spending priorities for the recurrent budget were (i)
the reabsorbtion of students returning from the refugee camps into primary and secondary
schools and the university; and (ii) the provision of health services to the returning refugees. For
the development budget the priorities were permanent shelter, support for agricultural
production, water and access roads to new settlements, education and health facilities and
equipment, strengthening justice and security, income generating activities and capacity building.
Table I shows the government budgetary operations, with the large recurrent budget financing
gap of FRW34.9 billion (US$109 million).



9
Table 1: Rwanda: Budgetary Operations of
the Central Government
(in billion of Rwf)            30.   The recurrent (ordinary) budget. The
1996   1997   distribution of the recurrent expenditures for
1996 and the budget for 1997 is shown in Table
Revenue and Grants(1)        70.9  122.1   2. In 1996, 49 percent of expenditures was on
.Revenue                    39.5   46.4  the military as the deterioration of security in
Grants                     31.4   75.8  the country in 1996, with incursions from
Total Expenditure (2)        93.5  168.2   Democratic Republic of Congo by exiled
Current Expenditure        52.6   60.4   soldiers and militia of the former regime, led to
Capital Expenditure        40.9  108.3   higher than budgeted military expenditures. The
Change in Arrears (3)         8.2   -8.5  increase was at the expense of spending for
administration, with 17 percent of expenditure
Overall Deficit(cash basis)  -14.4  -55.0   compared to its share of 25 percent of the
Financing (4)                16.5   20.1   budget. Social services accounted for 22.8
Foreign Financing          12.9   20.1   percent of recurrent expenditure in 1996, close
Domestic Financing          3.6    0.0  to the budgeted share of 21.7 percent. For the
Financing Gap                -2.1  -34.9   1997 budget, military expenditure is to decline
in relative and absolute amounts, with its share
of recurrent expenditure falling from 49 percent
to 37 percent. Expenditure for the social sectors, particularly for education, is substantially
increased, accounting for 39 percent of recurrent expenditure.
Table 2: Rwanda: Current Expenditure by Sector 1996-1997
(interest payments not included)
(in billions of RWF)
1996 (actual)           1997 (budget)
Expenditure   % of Total Expenditure   % of Total
4-Military                       22.67        49.0        19.70        36.8
2-Administration                  7.88        17.0        10.71        19.9
3-Economic Services               5.65        11.2         2.46         4.6
4-Social Services                10.52        22.8        20.73        38.7
Education                       8.56        18.5       14.22        26.5
Health                          1.19         2.6         1.37        2.6
.Reintegration/Resettlement     0.13         0.3         3.55         6.6
.Demobilization                                0         1.00         1.9
Other Social                   0.64         1.4         0.59         1.1
Total                            46.23         100        53.60       100.0
31.   The development budget. The development budget for 1997, at FRW1 08 billion
(US$339 million), is a significant increase from the draft development budget of FRW61.5
billion prepared before the massive return of refugees. Table 3 shows the distribution of the



10
development budget by sector. The bulk of proposed expenditure is for the social sector,
including specific programs for resettlement and reintegration. Capacity is a major bottleneck in
the implementation of projects; thus priority is to be given to building the capacity to implement
projects at national and community levels.
Table 3
Rwanda: Development Expenditure by Sector: 1997
(In billions of Rwf)
Budget % of Total
Economic Services               35.0      32.3
.Productive Sector             10.5       9.7
.Infrastructure               24.4       22.5
.Environment and Tourism        0.1       0.1
Social Services                 55.0      50.8
.Education                     16.7      15.4
.Health                        11.9      11.0
. Repatriation/Resettlement    18.4      17.0
.Demobilization                3.2        3.0
.Other Social                  4.8        4.4
Administration Services         13.4       12.4
.Justice and Security          4.2        3.9
.Other                          9.2       8.5
Not Specified Sector             4.9       4.5
Total                          108.3       100
32.   The Prospects for closing the budget financing gap. The recurrent budget financing
gap is the critical one that needs to be filled urgently. The financing identified so far to cover the
$109 million gap is $30.3 million comprising of $16.5 million from ongoing budget support
operations by the European Union, $3.6 million from the Dutch support to debt service due to
World Bank and $10.3 million from the ongoing African Development Bank balance of payment
support operation (see Table 4a). With the US$50 million from the proposed ERRC and US$10
million to be raised through the commodity monetization program, US$18.5 million remain to be
identified. The Government is working with the Bretton Woods institutions and the UNDP to
secure funding for this gap as well as the development budget gap.



11
Table 4a                             Table 4b
Financing of the Recurrent          Financing of the Development
Budget Gap 1997 (US$ millions)          Budget 1997 (US$ millions)
Overall Financing Gap          108.90    Total                    338.15
Budgetary Grants and Loans      30.40    AfDF                      17.29
of which:                               Belgium                    16.39
European Union                16.50    Canada                     4.30
Netherlands                    3.64   IFAD                        3.96
AfDB                          10.25    France                     3.40
IDA                       58.30
Balance to be funded            78.50    WFP                        4.59
etherlands               13.46
Financing Prospects:                    UNDP                        9.15
IDA--ERRC                      50.00    Germany                   33.64
Com. Monetization Prog.       10.00    Rwanda                     15.61
Switzerland                5.83
Residual Balance                18.50    European Union            66.84
UNICEF                     4.56
USAID                      4.09
Others                    20.34
L  Financing Not Secured      56.41
33.   Military and Security Expenditures. As a result of the endemic political instability and
conflict in Rwanda, the military has absorbed a relatively high share of public expenditures.
Spending on the military rose rapidly in the late 1980s, from 1.6 percent of GDP in 1985 to 6.3
percent in 1992 as opposition to the government then in power intensified. Following the
genocide and the war, the military continued to absorb a big share of the meager budget due to
continuing insecurity in the country and region. In FY95, the military budget, including the
spending on the gendarmerie (the national police force), was the largest single item in the
recurrent budget, accounting for 35 percent of recurrent expenditure and equivalent to 4.5 percent
of GDP. However, in real terms, post-war budget expenditure on the military is less than half of
pre-war level.
34.   The Government recognizes that the burden of military expenditures is excessive. For the
short-term, it is reducing military costs through cost-saving measures and improved financial
management. Military outlays are budgeted to decline from 5.5 percent of GDP in 1996 to 4.2
percent in 1997 owing to cost savings arising from the introduction of a system of cash
supplements for soldiers' rations, a reduction in vehicle maintenance outlays following the
replacement of the old vehicles of the army, and effective controls on the use of fuel. The
Government also expects improvements in financial ianagement, following the computerization
of key operations. For the medium-term, the Government plans to reduce the size of the army.
Early in 1996, it requested assistance from the World Bank and bilateral donors for a
demobilization program. However, since the initial request, internal and regional security has



12
deteriorated, implementation of the program has been delayed but preparations began in earnest
in early 1997.
Progress in Economic Reform
35.   The Rwandan economy faced severe financial imbalances in the 1980s. The initial policy
response of the Government proved inadequate to deal with the crisis. In 1990 the Government
embarked on an economic reform program supported by the IMF and the Bank. The IMF's
Extended Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) of SDR 8.76 million was approved in April
1991, and an IDA-financed Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) of US$90 million was approved
in June 1991. The reforms were to stabilize the economy and make it competitive, improve
resource allocation, and establish the basis for sustainable growth and poverty reduction. The
authorities implemented, in 1991-92, most of the agreed reform measures, except the coffee
sector reforms. Eventually the momentum of reform was lost due to the intensification of the
civil strife in the country. This led to a disruption of economic activities and a large build-up of
military expenditures, effectively derailing the program. The ESAF and the SAC were suspended
in April 1994, and the second tranche of the SAC was canceled in December 1994.
36.   The pre-war economic reformn agenda remain largely valid for post-war Rwanda. The new
Government has endorsed this agenda and affirmed its determination to broaden it and accelerate
its implementation. In March 1995, the Government took the first steps by liberalizing coffee
marketing, the exchange regime and interest rates. In March 1997, the Government endorsed a
program of policy and institutional reform as part of its emergency reconstruction and
reintegration program (ERRP). This program, articulated in the Post-Conflict Rehabilitation:
Framework for Economic Policies, was developed jointly with the staff of the Bretton Woods
institutions, includes the privatization of the public enterprises, the reform of the public sector
management, regulatory reforms for the promotion of the private sector, and the reform of the
financial sector.
III - THE EMERGENCY REINTEGRATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
(ERRP)
Rationale and Objectives
37.   The ERRP is a multi-year program designed as the centerpiece of the joint response of
Government and the international community to the challenge resulting from genocide and the
massive return of refugees to Rwanda. The main objective of the ERRP is to promote the social
and economic reintegration and revitalization in Rwanda, thereby contributing to peace and
stability. ERRP will address the short- to medium-term settlement and reintegration needs of the
affected populations, facilitate their economic and social reintegration into their communities,
and assist them to build sustainable livelihoods. Furthermore, ERRP will lay the foundation for
national reconciliation and longer-term sustainable development by rehabilitating and
reconstructing economic and social infrastructure, reinforcing local capacity, promoting income



13
generating activities, rebuilding social capital and strengthening justice and security; within a
macroeconomic framework oriented towards monetary and fiscal stability.
38.   The ERRP targets vulnerable groups in both rural and urban areas at the community level
where the real transition from war to peace takes place. ERRP consists of new and ongoing
sectoral activities, and community-based activities, identified by the beneficiaries and financed
by a fund created for that purpose. These activities are intended to revitalize local economies and
galvanize communities around tangible mutually beneficial actions. The ERRP covers the
following sectors: (i) Rural and urban settlements (housing, water and sanitation, roads); (ii)
Social infrastructure (education, health); (iii) Sustainable livelihoods (agriculture, income and
employment generation, micro-credit enterprises); (iv) capacity building at the community and
national levels, including security and justice.
39.   The expected outcomes are as follows: the successful social and economic settlement and
reintegration of refugees in Rwanda; an improvement of standard of living of vulnerable groups;
the rehabilitation of key social and economic infrastructure; the enhanced capacity to implement
community-based development programs effectively; improved and institutionalized
coordination between Government and donors; and participation of beneficiaries in project
identification, preparation and implementation.
Sectoral Objectives and Strategies for the ERRP
40.   Rural housing. The objective of the rural housing program of ERRP is to permanently
resettle returned refugees and victims/survivors of genocide. The Government has earmarked 34
areas for the settlement of returnees, many of them in Kibungo and Mutara prefectures. The
Government planned the construction of more than 250 small settlements to accommodate old
case load families who choose to settle in the rural areas and to support the construction of rural
housing, to supplement those to be built under self-help schemes facilitated by agencies and
international and national NGOs in existing communities. The Government will also support the
rehabilitation of housing for survivors of genocide and returned new case load refugees.
41.   Urban housing. The goals of the urban housing program are to support the construction
of houses for those families who currently do not have permanent accommodation and strengthen
the capacity of urban communities to meet the demand for shelter and urban services in an
efficient and sustainable manner. The support for urban housing requires a three-pronged
approach. Firstly, to accelerate the initial tranche of site preparation already identified by
Government and to ensure a rapid construction of houses. Secondly, to pilot and replicate various
approaches for meeting the demand for housing, relying on community initiative and market
response. Thirdly, to develop urban policies and related capacity.
42.   Water and Sanitation: The provision of water supply to the new settlement areas is a
short-run priority of the ERRP. For the medium-to-long term, the water sector needs a sound
legal, regulatory and institutional framework, and enhanced human capacity and funding to meet
the demand for its services. The sector requires strong community participation, especially in
peri-urban and rural areas, thus capacity building is a priority, particularly for to enhance the
technical capacity of local operators, and for planning and management for regional (prefectures)



14
and central administration. Government also intends to improve the awareness of population of
the value of water and sanitation, with programs of communication, information and sanitary
education.
43.   Transport. The objectives of Government for the transport sector are to improve rural
transport infrastructure, reduce internal and external transport and communication costs, protect
existing investments, and improve road safety. The poor local transport system has been a major
constraint on provision of basic services and on rural development. The ERRP includes an
emergency road rehabilitation program based on the current sector policy of road
maintenance/rehabilitation by private entrepreneurs and the use of labor-intensive methods. The
program, which includes primary and feeder roads to improve access to agricultural and
commercial areas, will provide badly needed rural employment and revitalize rural economic
activities.
44.   Education. The education sector deteriorated owing to the financial constraints in the
late 80s and the 90s, and from the destruction of the 1994 war. Gross enrollment is about 70
percent in primary schools and 8 percent at the secondary level. Most educational institutions
(primary, secondary and tertiary levels) lack qualified teachers, instructional materials and
equipment, and operate in damaged facilities. The Government is preparing a comprehensive
strategy for the education sector. For the long-term, the objectives are to increase gross
enrollment rate in primary schools to 100 percent, and in secondary schools to 20 percent;
improve the quality and relevance of education, and build an educational system that contributes
to the enhancement of peace and democracy in Rwanda, promote environmental awareness, and
improve language training, which is considered a priority in a country that has now three official
languages.
45.   With the return of over one million refugees in late 1996, additional 200,000 students will
have to be accommodated in the education system, representing an increase of in enrollment of
20 percent. This requires immediate support for: (a) school rehabilitation and construction, (b)
hiring of additional teachers, (c) in-service teacher training, (d) curriculum development for
secondary schools, (e) the printing and distribution of textbooks and (0 the provision of supplies.
Higher education needs classrooms and boarding facilities; more professors; and supplies and
equipment. For non-formal education, the rehabilitation of commune literacy and skills
development centers and the development of appropriate training programs are underway.
46.   Health: Health standards were deteriorating in the decade preceding the 1994 crisis
because of a combination of a deteriorating health conditions and underfunding of public health
programs. The major problems included the dramatic increase in the cases of drug resistant
malaria; the high incidence of AIDS, with an estimated seropositivity of 25-30 percent among
adults in urban areas; and increasing food insecurity and malnutrition. The public health system
was not equipped to respond to these challenges. Following the 1994 events, the combined
efforts of the Ministry of Health (MINISANTE), the donor community and NGOs helped to
rehabilitate and upgrade the system. Most health facilities are now functional. However, the main
challenges remain and the system is plagued by a shortage of human resources and equipment,



15
and an ineffective pharmaceutical distribution system. MINISANTE has developed a health
sector strategy to deal with these problems.
47.   The massive return of refugees does not change the challenge to the health sector but it
has increased its scope. Immediate actions fall into: (a) rehabilitation of facilities and
construction and equipment of a limited number of health centers (b) recruitment and training of
health personnel, (c) provision of medicines, vaccines and other supplies, and (d) coverage of
operations and maintenance costs. The return of the refugees from the camps exacerbates the risk
of spreading AIDS/HIV throughout the country. Consequently, sensitization campaigns and
related activities would be undertaken nation-wide.
48.   Agriculture and Food Security. About 92 percent of the economically active
population of Rwanda is in the agricultural sector. With the rapid growth of the labor force in
agriculture, this has led to declining land per farmer, with the majority of farmers cultivating less
than one hectare. Almost all land suitable for agriculture is being cultivated, with 94 percent of
the land for the production of food crops. Soil fertility has been falling, leading to declining
productivity. The massive displacement of the population during the 1990s adversely affected
agricultural production. The effects of the combination of these factors have been rising rural
poverty and food insecurity.
49.   The priorities of the Government since the end of the war have been the resumption of
agricultural production, the rehabilitation of production infrastructure, and reinforcement of the
capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture. After the 1994 war, the Government, with support of
donors, provided farm implements, seeds and other inputs that enabled farmers to resume
agricultural activities. ERRP proposes this kind of support to assist about 200,000 returned
households that will resume farming.
50.   Skills Development. This component of ERRP will rehabilitate existing training centers
at the national, prefecture and commune levels, and provide funding to beneficiaries to access
several alternative training schemes. The principal avenue would be a contract training scheme
which would subcontract a range of training providers, including vocational training centers,
industrial, commercial and agricultural schools, NGOs and private training facilities and teacher
training institutes. Where necessary, the capacities of these institutions would be strengthened to
enable them develop and deliver the special courses that the beneficiaries need. Educational
scholarships to those wishing to continue their formal education, be it primary, secondary,
technical institute, or teacher training would be available to eligible beneficiaries.
51.   Microenterprise Development. Diversification of rural economic activity and creation
of employment opportunities both in rural and urban areas are key to reintegration. There is
substantial scope for developing rural agro-processing, introduction of simple technologies and
development of revenue-generating activities. Provision of financial, technical and managerial
support to individuals and groups will enable the creation of new off-farm employment in the
rural areas, and with the vocational training component, will improve the marketable skills of the
beneficiaries. Micro-credit, channeled through local financial intermediaries, rural cooperatives
and women's associations, will enable the development of such entrepreneurial activities. Self-



16
managed micro-credit schemes could be set up at the local level to facilitate disbursement of
funds and to act as a capacity-building measure.
52.   Justice and Security The transition from war to peace requires a stable social
environment. The existence of the rule of law and the protection of human rights facilitate
peaceful coexistence in the communes and the smooth reintegration of new and old case load
refugees. The Government will strengthen the policing and judicial capacity at the communal
level to promote reconciliation between the resident population and the returnees, and reinforce
the capacity of the judicial system to carry out the genocide trials expeditiously. An awareness-
raising campaign, emphasizing the respect for the rule of law, will be launched.
53.   Demobilization. The objectives of the Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration
Program (RDRP) are: (a) to downsize the army; (b) to reinsert and reintegrate the demobilized
soldiers and the returned ex-FAR soldiers into civilian life. The RDRP will target assistance to
the families of the demobilized soldiers as well as the communities where they settle. The
reintegration component of the RDRP will be closely linked to the sustainable livelihood
components of the ERRP. The Government established the RDRP Commission in December
1996. The Commission has started the preparatory work with a socio-economic survey of the
RPA soldiers to be demobilized.
54.   Strengthening capacity at national and community levels. Building capacity, i.e.
enabling national, prefecture and commune level institutions and organizations to (a) increase
their effective use of limited resources, (b) ensure greater sustainability, and (c) ensure the
empowerment of beneficiaries, is of paramount importance for successfully implementing the
ERRP. Capacity-building efforts would be driven by the need to develop sustainable
development strategies at commune and prefecture levels; the shift from emergency assistance
(saving lives) to development assistance (sustaining livelihoods); the strengthening and
empowering of civil society and civic associations at the local level; and the Government's desire
to create an environment in which all elements of society, particularly individuals, private sector
and non-governmental entities play a vital role in the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the
country.
55.   Program planning and management. Capacity strengthening would be initiated as a
matter of priority in order to facilitate the expeditious and smooth implementation of the ERRP.
Monitoring and evaluation of projects would be among the priority actions, and the national
coordinating organ, the sectoral ministries, as well as the prefectoral offices would be duly
strengthened in this regard. As coordination of the ERRP is entrusted to the National
Development Program Coordination Commission, the first task is to strengthen the Commission
to carry out this mandate. Secondly, prefectoral level project management units will need to be
strengthened to ensure effective decentralization of ERRP implementation. Thirdly, existing
project management capacity within the sectoral ministries will also to be supported and
strengthened.



17
Estimated Program Costs
56.   The total cost of the program is estimated at US$429.1 million consisting of US$408.1
million for the multi-year investment program and US$2 1.1 million for recurrent expenditure in
1997. The program will be funded through donor contributions to a trust fund managed by
UNDP, and directly through existing bilateral and multilateral arrangements. The ERRP provides
the framework for identifying specific projects which can then be integrated into the public
investment program and ultimately into the development budget as funding becomes available.
The Government will carry out consultations with donors to raise funding for the ERRP.
Table 1: Emergency Reintegration and Reconstruction Program
(in Millions of USS)
Component            Sub-component                    cost
Settlements          Rural settlement                113.3
Urban settlement                 45.8
Social Infrastructure   Education                     38.6
Health                           11.7
Sustainable livelihoods Agriculture                   16.4
Skills Development               23.3
Microenterprise Development      54.5
Capacity building    Community level capacity building  28.3
National level capacity building  10.3
Other               Justice and security              12.0
Demobilization                   34.0
Food Aid                         17.6
Sub-total in the Public Investment Program 1997-99   408.0
Sub-total ordinary budget 1997                        21.1
Total                                                429.1
IV - IDA PROJECT AND IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Objectives of the IDA support
57.   Objectives and Benefits. The proposed ERRC is part of the effort by the Bank to play a
constructive role in international efforts at reconstruction and rapid economic recovery, peace
and stability in Rwanda and the Great Lakes region generally. The World Bank's participation in
this emergency program is crucial to encourage bilateral donors and other multilateral agencies to
provide the assistance that Rwanda needs. The proposed operation will ensure that the
Government is able to provide basic services to returning refugees and the existing population,
and consolidate the economic recovery and stability already underway. By providing foreign
exchange for imports, ERRC will enhance private sector production and employment which



18
would reinforce the reintegration effort. Based on the experience of the Emergency Recovery
Credit, we expect the funds to be fully disbursed within 12 months.
Project Description
58.   The proceeds of the credit will finance a positive list of imports important for
reintegration, reconstruction and continued economic recovery. The list of eligible imports is
shown in Attachment 2. The counterparts funds from the use of foreign exchange for private
sector imports will go to support the general government budget. Since the return of the refugees
in November 1996, the budget constraint of the Government has been severe and critical
expenditures had to be postponed. ERRC will be effective only in the second half of 1997,
corresponding to the second half of the GOR's fiscal 1997. To assist the Government in meeting
its financial commitments for FY97, a retroactive withdrawal of up to 25% of the credit amount
is recommended. This will cover a 4-month-period prior to the estimated date of the signing of
the credit agreement.
Implementation Arrangements
59.   The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning will have the overall responsibility for
the implementation of the credit. The Ministry will appoint an officer, at the level of Director or
above to coordinate the implementation. The relevant services in the central bank, the BNR, will
be assigned the responsibility for collecting the eligible import documents, and preparing
statements of expenditures and requests for reimbursement.
60.   Procurement and Disbursements. The proposed credit would finance 100 percent of
imported goods for the private sector, and will include direct cost, insurance and freight of goods
imported from eligible sources based on a positive list (see Annex 2). Imports contracts above
$2.0 million would be procured under Simplified International Competitive Bidding procedures
in accordance with Bank guidelines. This will involve: (a) advertising in a local newspaper and
either in the Development Forum or a newspaper/technical journal of wide international
circulation or a notice to embassies/representations located in Rwanda; (b) the use of standard
bidding documents; and (c) preparation of an evaluation report based on a format acceptable to
IDA. All contracts above $2.0 million would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
61.   Pre-shipment inspection for quality, quantity and price will be required. Imports contracts
up to $2.0 million (each) will follow established commercial practices in Rwanda, which are
compatible with competitive purchasing methods acceptable to IDA. Contracts below $10,000
are not eligible for financing under the proposed credit. Expenditures in excess of an aggregate
amount equivalent to $12.5 million of petroleum products shall not be financed under the credit.
Imports financed under other development assistance programs will not be eligible for financing
under this project. Retroactive financing up to an aggregate amount of $12.5 million would be
acceptable for eligible imports paid for during the four-month period preceding credit signing.
62.   Disbursement of the proceeds of the credit will be on a reimbursement basis and there
will be no special account into which IDA would advance funds. For goods contracts above the
US$2 million threshold, the documentation to be submitted to IDA to justify expenditures out of



19
the credit includes the customs bill of entry; the final invoice; proof of payment where
applicable; and pre-shipment inspection certificate. The audits of the Emergency Recovery
Credit were satisfactory and on time, and based on that record, the use of statements of
expenditure is being expanded for the ERRC. Disbursement will therefore be by statements of
expenditure for eligible imports contracts under the US$2 million threshold. Supporting
documentation will be kept locally to enable supervision by Bank staff in the field and by
auditors acceptable to the Bank.
63.   Supervision and Audits. Apart from daily monitoring by the Bank's resident mission in
Rwanda, the supervision of the Emergency Reconstruction and Recovery Credit will be
conducted by a task team leader of the project. The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
will prepare a quarterly report on the execution of the project, which would be submitted to the
Bank. The report would cover procurement and disbursement, and the progress on the budget
execution. The report would also identify any issues in need of resolution by the Minister of
Finance and the Bank. An audit for the project would be carried out every six months and at the
time of project completion. Auditor's opinion and reports satisfactory to the Bank on such
statements would be required to be provided after each audit. The Borrower will finance the
audit. An Implementation Completion Report will be prepared by the Government and the Bank
within three months of credit closing.



V - ANNEXES
Attachment I
Page 1 of 3
Status of Bank's Operations
64.   As of January 31, 1997, IDA has extended 47 credits for a total of US$734.5
million including two Special African Facility Credits amounting to US$25 million.
Todate canceled amounts total US$126.2 million while total cumulative disbursements
equal US$529 million. The distribution of credits by sectors is as follows: (a)
infrastructure 33.5 percent; (b) agriculture and rural development 23.8 percent; human
resources 11.9 percent; (d) structural adjustment 11.3 percent; (e) an emergency recovery
credit 9.3 percent (f) credit to small and medium enterprises, finance and industry 5.2
percent, (g) development and distribution of local energy sources and energy
conservation 2.5 percent and (h) Technical Assistance and Public Sector Management 2.5
percent. IFC has extended three loans and two equity participations.
65.   The current portfolio, with an undisbursed balance of US$104.62 million at the
end of April 1997, consists of 9 investment projects and one emergency recovery project
which provided imports and budget support and is fully disbursed except for a small
technical assistance component. These projects are:
66.   Water SupplvyII. (Credit-1783; Effective 10.31.88; Closing Date 12.31.93;
Undisbursed US$2.33 million). The project's original objectives were to improve the
quality and quantity of drinking water in rural areas, sensitize and make rural
communities responsible for the maintenance of water installations and help the
government put in place an institutional and financial framework to coordinate the
activities of various donors in the sector. The project was restructured after the 1994 civil
war to: (i) complete repairs of the water supply systems and the water source from the
Yaanze river supplying Kigali which were damaged during the war; (ii) finance an
evaluation of the water needs in secondary cities; and (iii) finance a rehabilitation study
for simple and complex rural water supply systems.
67.   Sectoral and Pre-investment. (Credit -1796; Effective 08.18.88; Closing Date
06.30.97; Undisbursed US$4.32 million). The project objectives were to assist the
government in strengthening its planning and investment capabilities by financing
strategic sectoral, subsectoral and feasibility studies for priority investment projects,
building capacity for the management of the public investment program and the budget,
and conducting studies and workshops to advance the economic reform program. The
project is progressively moving towards an orderly closure.



Attachment I
Page 2 of 3
68.   Transport Sector, (Credit-2136; Effective 03.29.91; Closing Date 09.30.98;
Undisbursed US$22.51 million). The project objectives are to: (a) reform sector policies
to promote competition and liberalize prices; (b) develop the planning capacity of the
government; (c) improve road maintenance ability and (d) promote private sector activity
in road maintenance. The project supports main road construction, improved road
maintenance and promotion of communal activities.
69.   Second Communication. (Credit-2189; Effective 08.19.91; Closing Date
12.31.98; Undisbursed US$7.43 million). The project promotes efficient
communications through institutional reform and some modest investments. It seeks to
create autonomous, commercially-oriented operating entities for the telecommunications
and postal services, and to provide a regulatory framework which permits the entry of the
private sector in the telecommunications industry.
70.   Education Sector Credit. (Credit-2227; Effective 06.24.92; Closing Date
09.30.97; Undisbursed US$15.03 million). The project aims at: (a) consolidating and
expanding primary education; (b) improving the overall quality of education; and (c)
strengthening the sector's management capacity. Both the Bank and the government
have recognized the necessity to emphasize project components dealing with teaching
quality. The Government may seek the extension of the closing date.
71.   Health and Population. (Credit-2272; Effective 06.04.92; Closing Date 12.31.98;
Undisbursed US$17.25 million). The project was restructured in June 1996. Its original
objectives were to: (a) support the implementation of the National Health Strategy by
reforming and strengthening pharmaceutical policies, health sector financing, and the
operations of health districts; (b) strengthen the government's capacity to formulate and
put into effect a comprehensive and sustainable strategy of AIDS control on a national
scale; and (c) strengthen the government's capacity to formulate and carry out a
population policy. The project as restructured will: (i) support the operation of six
health districts; (ii) assist with the supply of essential drugs; (iii) support a national IEC
capacity; (iv) restructure and decentralize the National AIDS Control Program; (v) restore
the capacity to carry out epidemiological surveillance; (vi) develop a national capacity
for voluntary AIDs testing and counseling; (vii) develop an awareness and an
understanding of population issues; (viii) improve population education; and (ix) educate
officials on population issues in the new context.



Attachment 1
Page 3 of 3
72.   Food Sector and Social Action. (Credit-2388; Effective 08.05.93; Closing Date
12.31.97; Undisbursed US$11.37 million). This project was restructured to: support the
recovery of community activities by rehabilitating social and economic infrastructure, (b)
promote public participation in small-scale productive activities, (c) create temporary and
permanent employment, and, (d) improve the nutrition of relatively poor and vulnerable
groups. The project has three components: a community infrastructure component that
finances numerous schools, clinics and water supply works; a small-scale credit
component that finances income-generating activities in agriculture and related areas;
and, a food security and nutrition component that aims to reduce food insecurity,
malnutrition and a health component targeting sick children, pregnant and lactating
mothers, AlDs-affected households and the growing number of orphans. An important
aspect of the restructuring is the setting aside of US$2 million for a pilot on project
implementation through communal participation.
73.   Energy Sector. (Credit-2456; Effective 01.21.94; Closing Date 12.31.98;
Undisbursed US$11.5 million). The project was to promote rational energy policies and
establish the basis for efficient utilization of Rwanda's energy resources. The project has
been restructured and the Woodfuel and the methane gas components were dropped whiel
a pilot waste management project for the city of Kigali was added.
74.   Private Sector (Credit-2541; Effective 06.09.95; Closing Date 06.30.99;
Undisbursed US$11.63 million). The project has three components: (a) an APEX line of
credit for productive investments, (b) a private sector support fund and (c) support for
institutional strengthening to various companies and participating financial
intermediaries. The project aims at promoting the expansion of the private sector.
75.   Emergency Recovery Credit. (Credit-2678; Effective 07.05.95; Closing Date
06.30.97; Undisbursed US$1.02 million). The project objectives were to help Rwanda
begin to overcome the problems created by the 1994 civil war and facilitate the return to
normal life and productive activities. To this end, the project was designed to: (i) help
the government begin the restoration of key economic and social services, rebuild the
institutional capacity necessary for suitable economic recovery and design a coherent
economic policy framework and (ii) provide the private sector with foreign exchange to
resume operations and create jobs.



23
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 2
List of Imports to be financed utd(ler the Credit 2
H. S. Codce
01.02 - 01.06               Live animals for breeding
12.09 - 12.14              Seed grains and fruits and spores for planting
15.05 - 15.20              Oil and chemical oil products
17.01 - 17.02              Sugar and industrial glucose
27.12 - 27.14               Petrolcum coke, natural and other asphalt, industrial
petroleum jelly and paraffin
28.01 - 28.43              Inorganic chemaical products
29.01 - 19.06               Hydrocarbons and derivatives
30.03 - 30.06              Pharmaceuticals, medicines
31.01 - 31.05               Fertilizers
32.15                      Inks and toners
33.01                      Basic oils
34.04 - 34.06              Artilicial wax, powders and candles
38.01 - 38.08               Chemiiical products, insecticides, herbicides, fungicides
39.01 - 39.26               Plastic and cellulose products
40.01 - 40.17               Rublber products (including pipes and cables, tires and
surgical products)
44.01 - 44.21               Wood and wood products
47.01 - 47.07               Wood pulp, cellulose fibers and paper and carton refuse
40.01 - 48.3 1              Papcr and paper products
49.01 - 49.06               Books, textbooks, engineering and architectural;
drawing materials
52.01 - 53.08               Cotton and jute fibers and textiles
54.01 - 58. 11              Syntlhetic fibers and textiles
69.01 - 69.10               Ceramic products (including construction bricks,
tiles, pipes, etc.)
70.01 - 70.07               Glass ancd glass products
72.01 - 73.26               Iron and steel products
74.01 - 74.19               Copper and copper products
75.01 - 75.08              Nickel and nickel products
2   Description according to the Rwanda Harmonized System Customs Code. Products here described
and those contained unlder the four-digit category are considered eligible to be financed by the credit.



24
AachbmnL2
Page 2 of 2
List of Imports to be financed un(ler the Credit (contd) 3
H. S. CO1lC
76.01 - 76.16               Aluminium and aluminum products
78.01 - 78.06               Lead and lead products
79.01 - 79.07               Zinc and zinc products
84.05 - 84.85               Motors and electrical machinery (gas generators,
turbines, pumps, etc.)
85.01 - 85.05               Motors and electrical machinery (power generators,
translormers, bobbins, etc.)
85.17 - 85.27               Teleplhones and radiophone equipment
87.01 - 87.16               Motor cars, tractors, cycles, and other vehicles
(includinlg parts)
90.01 - 90.09               Plhotocopiers, printers
90.15 - 90.17               Topographical, geodesic and mathematical instruments
90.18 - 90.26               Medical instruments
90.28 - 90.29               Gas, liquid or electrical meters
94.01 - 94.02               Medical and surgical furniture
94.06                       Prefabricated constructions
96.01 - 96.13               Office equipment
Descriplion according to the Rwandat I larmon11oized System Customs Code. Products here described
and thosc contained unlder the fou1-digit category are considered eligible to be financed by the credit.






IMAGING
Report No.: T       7149   RWV
Type:     TAN



