Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19391
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
EMERGENCY REINTEGRATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT 2969-RW)
June 9, 1999
Macroeconomics 3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without the World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =       RwF (Rwanda Franc)
1993: US$1.00       =      RwF 144
1994: US$1.00       =      RwF 134
1995: US$1.00       =      RwF 260
1996: US$1.00       =      RwF 307
1997: US$1.00              RwF 302
1998: US$1.00              RwF 313
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
RWANDESE FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                 African Development Bank
BNR                  Banque Nationale du Rwanda
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
DCA                 Development Credit Agreement
DFID                 Department for International Development (UK)
DRC                  Democratic Republic of Congo
ERC                  Emergency Recovery Credit
ERP                  Emergency Recovery Program
ERRC                Emergency Reintegration and Recovery Credit
ESAF                 Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GOR                  Government of Rwanda
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
IDA                 International Development Association
IMF                  International Monetary Fund
NGOs                 Non-Governmental Organizations
ODA                  Overseas Development Agency of the UK
PFP                  Policy Framework Paper
SAL                  Structural Adjustment loan
SDR                  Special Drawing Rights
TA                  Technical Assistance
UN                  United Nations
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
USA                  The United States of America
Vice President             :             C. Madavo
Director                                 E. Mbi
Sector Manager             :             L. Barbone
Task Team Leader           :             C. Obidegwu



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
EMERGENCY REINTEGRATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT 2969-RW)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------;
EVALUATION SUMMARY ---- ---- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -
Project Objectives and Design-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Implementation Experience and Results-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sustainability --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --- -i
Key Lessons Learned and Recommendations------------------------------------------------------------------------.  iii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT----------------------------------------------------------1
A. COUNTRY BACKGROUND --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- I
B. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES -------------------------------------------------------------------------- 3
C. ACHEVEMENT OF THE PROJECT OBJECTIVES----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 3
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING  THE PROJECT------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 5
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY -_--__--_------------_----------------------                                                                       __----__----_6
F. BANK PERFORMANCE -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 6
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE------------------------7
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 7
1. RECENT AND FUTURE OPERATIONS----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 8
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED AND RECOMMENDATIONS-                                                                                                                         9
PART II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION FROM THE BORROWER PERSPECTIVE --------------------10
PART III: STATISTICAL ANNEXES --------------------------------------------------------------------------------13
Table 1: Summary  ofAssessments-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------13
Table 2: Related Bank LoansICredits ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------15
Table 3: Project Timetable ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------16
Table 4: Cumulative Estimate and Actual Disbursements -----------------------------------------------------------17
Table 5: Project Costs -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------18
Table 6: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ------------------------------------------------------19
Table 7: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs -------------------------------------------------------------------------------20
Table 8: Bank Resources: Missions ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
EMERGENCY REINTEGRATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT 2969-RW)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Emergency Reintegration
and Recovery Credit (ERRC) for which Credit 2969-RW in the amount of SDR 36.7 million
(US$50.0 million equivalent) was approved by the International Development Association (IDA)
on June 25 1997 and made effective on August 26, 1997.
2.    The Credit was closed on December 31 1998. The last disbursement was made on
September 30, 1998.
3.    Stefano Paternostro and Chukwuma Obidegwu (AFTM3) prepared this ICR.
4.    The preparation of this ICR was based on materials in the project files, the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA), and discussions with the Bank and IMF staff.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
EMERGENCY REINTEGRATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT 2678-RW)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Design
1.    On June 25, 1997, the Board approved an SDR 36.7 million (US$50 million equivalent)
Emergency Reintegration and Recovery Credit (ERRC) to assist the Government of Rwanda
(GOR) to (i) resettle and reintegrate into normal social and economic life, the 1.3 million
refugees that returned in Rwanda in November and December 1996 as well as the old-case load
refugees and the victims of the genocide; (ii) consolidate the economic recovery and stability
already underway; and (iii) make the transition from emergency to sustainable development.
2.    The project was identified following a joint Bank-UN-GOR mission that assessed the
impact of the massive return of refugees and the associated emergency needs, and assisted the
GOR to develop a coherent response to the emergency. The mission identified an emergency
program that would move the country from humanitarian relief to the path of reintegration and
reconstruction and facilitate the transition to sustainable development. A subsequent joint Bank-
IMF-AfDB-GOR mission prepared a policy framework for the transition from emergency to
sustainable development and identified budgetary requirements. These formed the basis of the
emergency credit by the Bank and an emergency post-conflict assistance from the IMF. The IDA
credit was prepared in three months, negotiated in the field following appraisal, and presented to
the Executive Directors ahead of initial schedule. It was signed two weeks after Board approval
and was declared effective within six weeks of signing. The design of the project was kept
simple to ensure the timely availability of the proceeds to meet the urgent needs of Rwanda.
3.    To support the project objectives, the ERRC provided finance for public and private
sector imports from an agreed list (positive list) of high priority commodities. Eligible imports
included spare parts, inputs and capital equipment in sectors such as: agriculture, industry,
transportation, energy, water and sanitation, education and health. The list was the same at that
used for the preceding Emergency Recovery Credit (ERC) [Credit 2678-RW].
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The project disbursed smoothly, the BNR collected the necessary supporting documents
and filed them appropriately. The counterpart funds were deposited promptly in the Government
account. Record keeping was very well organized and the lessons from the ERC in this regard
were learned and applied. Thus there were no operational problems. However, the disbursements
were slower than expected. This was primarily due to the low level of private imports, and



further, some private imports could not satisfy the documentary requirements because they were
financed without using bank transfers or by suppliers credits.
5.    The ERRC, as well as the balance of payments contributions from other donors,
contributed significantly to Rwanda's macroeconomic recovery and stabilization. Real GDP,
which declined by 50 percent in 1994 and rebounded by 36.6 percent in 1995 and 12 percent
1996, continued its strong expansion, by 11 percent and 10 percent in 1997 and 1998
respectively. The private sector continued its growth trend, inflation was brought under control
and government revenues continued to rise. On the external front, the level of reserves continued
to rise, from 3 months of import cover as of March 1996 to 5V months of imports in 1998 and
the exchange rate remained stable.
6.    Most of the refugees who returned in 1996/97 have now been resettled in their
communities and have resumed their economic and social activities. The re-engagement of
returnees in economic activities made a significant impact on agricultural production, which rose
by 14 percent in 1998. Dependency on emergency assistance, for instance food aid, has declined.
Returned children have been re-absorbed into school and local health facilities are functioning
adequately and providing services. Efforts are continuing to deal with the human aspects of the
legacy of the genocide. A new government program is addressing the problems of the victims of
the genocide and the people displaced by the violent insurgency by the interahamwe militia in
the northwest of the country have now been resettled in new villages.
Sustainability
7.    The sustainability of the achievements under the Credit is uncertain. The main
determinants of project sustainability include: the ability of the GOR to stay on track on its
economic reforns, build its institutional capacity, and reinforce its efforts on national integration
and reconciliation. Furthermore, the continued active engagement of donors in the development
process in Rwanda is essential for sustainability. While the Government commitment to the
reforms and to national reconciliation is strong, its capacity is weak, the socio-political
environment is difficult and donor support is fragile. National reconciliation also is influenced by
events in the region, particularly in the DRC. Rwanda does not have control over these events.
8.    Regarding economic reforms, in 1997, the Government entered into dialogue with the
Bretton Woods institutions for support for its reform program and assistance in mobilizing
resources for reform. In June 1998, the Government adopted a Policy Framework Paper (PFP),
and the Bank organized a donor meeting in Stockholm that raised US$250 million to support the
reform program. Subsequently, the Fund approved an SDR71 million three year arrangement
under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) and the African Development Bank
(AfDB) approved a US$20 million Structural Adjustment Credit. The reform program, initiated
in 1995, was accelerated in early 1998, with substantial progress in privatization, public sector
reforms and fiscal and trade areas. Recent reviews of performance of the reform program by
Bank and IMF staff show that reform program is largely on track. However, donor support has
weakened due to Rwanda's involvement in the DRC war. This puts the economic recovery and
reform program at risk.
-jj 



9.    The massive return of refugees in late 1996 provided the foundation for rebuilding the
economy and accelerating efforts on political reforms and national reconciliation. However, this
positive opening was clouded by (i) the escalation of insurgency in northwest; and (ii) the
outbreak of civil war in the Democratic Republic Of Congo (DRC) in August 1998, with
Rwanda and Uganda supporting the rebels fighting the Government. While security within
Rwanda has improved since late 1998, security remains a major concern to the Government and
security-related spending a burden ion the budget. An important dimension to a sustainable
security and national reconciliation in Rwanda is an international agreement that ends the war in
the DRC and provides for security along the DRC-Rwanda border. In the meantime, the
Government has stepped up its efforts on national reconciliation and has launched wide-ranging
discussions among the political parties on the social, political and economic development of
Rwanda. Furthermore, it has begun to implement the related provisions in the Arusha Accord by
setting up the commissions on national reconciliation and human rights.
Key Lessons Learned and Recommendations
10.   The credit was an effective instrument in an emergency, post-conflict situation, for
improving the provision of government services and stimulating private investment and
production. The economic, political and social returns from such an investment in a post conflict
environment can be considerable, given the importance of sustaining economic recovery and
stability in an otherwise volatile environment. However, to be effective, the design of the project
needs to be sensitive to the capabilities in such situations.
11.   The approach of keeping the design of the ERRC simple and making minimum demands
on scarce Borrower capacity, the efforts by all parties to apply the lessons of the first emergency
credit, and the good dialogue between the Bank and the Borrower, facilitated the implementation
of the project. Nevertheless, the use of a positive list of eligible imports, the floor placed on the
value of import transactions which could be financed by the Credit, and the stringent import
documentary requirements, slowed disbursements and perhaps reduced the developmental impact
of the Credit. Imports are essential for jump-starting a post-conflict economy but resources are
often limited and consequently import levels are low. Import transactions often do not use the
banking system and do not have the full documentation normally required to justify imports.
Thus, the link of disbursements to imports and the stringent documentation requirements delay
the flow of urgently needed funds for the budget. Although the credit disbursed relatively
quickly, within 15 months of Board approval, this was six months longer than planned. It is
recommended that in these situations, emergency quick-disbursing operations should dispense
with the link to imports and follow the simplified procedures for adjustment operations approved
by the Board on February 1, 1996. While this involves more risk, the returns from moving
quickly would offset the higher risk.
- iii -



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
EMERGENCY REINTEGRATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT 2969-RW)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
12.   Rwanda is a small (26,000 square kilometers), landlocked and resource-poor country in
central Africa with a population of about 8 million. Between 1959 and 1973, the country
experienced repeated ethnic conflict which forced a significant part of the population into exile in
neighboring countries. Following a civil war triggered in 1990 by exiles seeking to return to
Rwanda, a power-sharing agreement was signed in Arusha, Tanzania, in August 1993. This was
to be underpinned by political reforms aimed at democratization and national reconciliation.
However, implementation of the Accord lagged, and the political transition was irremediably
derailed in April 1994 by the genocide and the massacre of up to 800,000 people, the exodus of
two million refugees to neighboring countries, and the internal displacement of another one
million people. The genocide and civil war devastated the economy. Economic output fell by
50 percent.
13    The Government of National Unity, since assuming power in 1994, put emphasis on
establishing an atmosphere of peace and security, resettling displaced persons and refugees,
assisting victims of genocide, and reviving and stabilizing the economy. The massive return of
Rwandese refugees from Zaire (later the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC)) and Tanzania in
late 1996 and the political changes in the DRC were seen as favorable to peace and stability in
Rwanda. However, what followed was an escalation of violent killings of civilians in northwest
Rwanda by elements of the interahamwe militia and soldiers that perpetrated the 1994 genocide.
The breakdown in the alliance with the Kabila Government in the DRC, the outbreak of war in
the DRC in August 1998, and the support of Rwanda to the forces attempting to topple the
Kabila regime, has made the search for reconciliation and peace in Rwanda and the Great Lakes
region more difficult. The escalation in 1997 of violent attacks in northwest Rwanda by the
interahamwe militia and its partisans operating from across the border in the DRC, has resulted
in more killings of civilians and disruption of social and economic activities and the
displacement of about 600,000 people. Military operations to contain these insurgencies have
prevented the reduction in security expenditures in the manner envisaged. The intervention of
Rwanda in the DRC civil war was motivated by the need to end these violent insurgencies.
14.   Rwanda has made remarkable progress in the social and economic fronts since the
genocide of 1994 despite the difficult socio-political environment. The internally displaced
persons, as well as the new and old case-load refugees who have returned to Rwanda, have
-1-



largely been resettled.' The security situation in the northwest of the country has improved and
the people displaced by the insurgency in that region have been resettled in villages. Economic,
administrative, judicial and social infrastructure and institutions have been rehabilitated. The
economy has been stabilized and is continuing to rebound strongly from the massive decline in
1994 and economic reform has been underway. The economic recovery however, is vulnerable to
the breakdown of the fragile peace and a slow down in external aid. Furthermore, the weak
human capacity, onerous security-related expenditures and the unsustainable debt burden
constrain economic performance.
15.   In 1995, the post-war Government started its reform efforts by liberalizing the trade and
exchange regime, interest rates and key product markets such as coffee. These reforms were
instrumental in the rapid recovery of the private sector and the financial institutions. Following
the massive return of refugees, the Government adopted a transition program from emergency to
development. The strategy underlying this program linked short-term humanitarian relief with
medium-term reconstruction and longer-term reconciliation and sustainable development. To
underpin the transition, the Government, in 1997, adopted a policy paper: Post-Conflict
Reconstruction: a Framework for Economic Policies (FEP), prepared in collaboration with
the Bank and Fund staff, to provide the basis for resuming its reform efforts. The FEP provided
the basis for the ERRC as well as an emergency post-conflict assistance from the Fund.2 Under
the FEP, progress was made in improving tax and trade policies, budget management and
revenue performance, rationalizing government institutions, and privatizing state owned
enterprises.
16.   In June 1998, the Govemment adopted a Policy Framework Paper (PFP), prepared in
collaboration with Bank and IMF staff. The main elements of the reform program of the PFP are
to: (i) maintain macroeconomic stability and improve public resource mobilization and
management; (ii) develop market-based agriculture; (iii) enhance the role of women;
(iv) establish the institutional and legal framework conducive to private sector growth and
external competitiveness; and (v) strengthen public institutional and administrative capacity and
improve public service delivery. Recent reviews of performance of the reform program by Bank
and IMF staff show that reform program is largely on track
17.   In April 1998, the Board of the Bank endorsed the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
which proposed that Rwanda be treated as a special case for international assistance. The CAS
further proposed to support Rwanda's reform program and to assist in mobilizing donor support
for a reform program In June 1998, the Bank organized a donor meeting in Stockholm that raised
US$250 million to support the Government' s reform program. Subsequently,. the Fund approved
an SDR71 million three year arrangement under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
(ESAF) and the African Development Bank (AfDB) approved a US$20 million Structural
1 New case-load refugees are those who left Rwanda in 1994 following the genocide and old case-load refugees
are the exiles connected with Rwandans who left the country as a result of violent conflicts in 1959-73.
2  The FEP was annexed to the ERRC's Report and Recommendation of the President to the Executive Directors.
-2-



Adjustment Credit. In March 1999, the Board of the Bank approved an Economic Recovery
Credit in the amount of US$75 million to support the Government's reform program.
B. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
18.   The ERRC was part of the effort by the Bank to play a constructive role in the
international effort for the reconstruction, rapid economic recovery, peace and stability in
Rwanda and the Great Lakes region. The specific objectives of the ERRC were to assist the
Government of Rwanda to: (i) resettle and reintegrate into normal social and economic life, the
1.3 million refugees that returned in Rwanda in November and December 1996 as well as the
old-case load refugees and the victims of the genocide; (ii) consolidate the economic recovery
and stability already underway; and (iii) make the transition from emergency to sustainable
development. The credit was designed to finance high priority imports of the public and private
sectors to promote production of goods and services, investment and employment creation. In
addition, the counterpart funds would flow to the national budget to enhance the provision of
public goods and services. The eligible imports were selected on the basis of the: (i) relevance in
meeting emergency needs; (ii) contribution to the restoration of key economic and social
activities; and (iii) importance for reconstruction and development. Regarding the national
budget, the Bank and the GOR agreed that expenditures on education, health, water and
sanitation and reintegration of refugees be budget priorities in FY97. These were the public
services deemed relevant for the rapid resettlement and reintegration of refugees and other
vulnerable groups.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF THE PROJECT OBJECTIVES
19.   The primary measures of performance for the ERRC were the timely provision of
essential imports to the private sector and the counterpart funds to the budget, the enhanced
provision of priority government services and the reintegration of refugees, and the overall
performance of the macro-economy.
20.   The credit financed private sector imports only. After the original allocation of
SDR 27.5 million (US$37.1 million equivalent) for private sector imports was fully disbursed by
June 1998, the public sector component was reallocated to the private sector and a further
SDR 9.25 million was disbursed between July-September 1998. Thus, the total amount of the
credit (SDR 36.7 million) was fully disbursed for private sector imports by September 30, 1998,
before the original closing date of December 31, 1998. The counterpart funds from ERRC
contributed FRW 5.7 billion to the budget in 1997, and FRW 9.8 billion in 1998, accounting for
8.9 percent and 11.8 percent of recurrent expenditures respectively. The counterpart funds from
the ERRC provided to the budget helped the Government to restore social and economic
services. On an annualized basis, the Credit provided about 20 percent of the national recurrent
budget.
21    The disbursement of the ERRC in FY97-98 and the budget/balance of payments
contributions from other donors, notably the IMF, Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and the
-3-



African Development Bank (AfDB), contributed significantly to Rwanda's progress in economic
recovery and stabilization. Real GDP, which declined by 50 percent in 1994 and rebounded by
36.6 percent in 1995 and 12 percent 1996, continued its strong expansion, by 11 percent and
10 percent in 1997 and 1998 respectively. The private sector continued its growth trend since
1995, evidenced by the growth of the industry sector by 16 percent and 10 percent in 1997 and
1998 respectively. Inflation after a surge in 1997 to 17 percent by year's end from 9 percent in
1996, declined to 2.5 percent by end-September 1998 and an average of 6.8 percent for 1998.
Government revenues as a proportion of GDP have continued to rise, albeit more slowly from
9.2 percent in 1996, 10.3 percent in 1997, and 10.2 percent in 1998, compared to 7.1 percent in
1995. An autonomous revenue authority has been established in early 1998 to improve revenue
administration.
22.   On the external front, the level of reserves continued to rise, from 3 months of import
cover as of March 1996 to 51/2 months of imports in 1998. The exchange rate remained stable at
302.4 in 1997, and 313.3 in 1998, compared to 306.0 in 1996. However, an undesirable outcome
was the real appreciation of the domestic currency vis a vis the dollar by 27 percent in 1997
which was partially offset by a depreciation of 15 percent in the first three quarters of 1998.
23.   Most of the refugees who returned in 1996/97 have now been resettled in their
communities and have resumed their economic and social activities. The re-engagement of
returned refugees in economic activities had a significant impact on agricultural production,
which rose by 14 percent in 1998. Dependency on emergency assistance, for instance food aid,
has declined. Returned children have been re-absorbed into school and local health facilities are
functioning adequately and providing services. Efforts are continuing to deal with the human
aspects of the legacy of the genocide and its aftermath. These include reintegrating returned ex-
soldiers into the army, the demobilizing soldiers and reintegrating them into civil society,
permanently settling old-case load returnees, resolving urban double occupancy housing
problems, assisting victims of genocide, absorbing qualified ex-civil servants who came back
from exile into the government service, and resettling people displaced by the insurgency in the
northwest of the country.
24.   The ERRC was a successful operation. It made valuable contributions to economic and
social recovery and stability, to the restoration of Government capacity, and the revival of the
private sector. Total disbursement came to 100 percent of the Credit, and the credit was closed
on December 31, 1998, its original closing date. The economy remained stable and economic
activity continued to expand rapidly. With the assistance of the international community, most of
the people displaced by the events of 1994 and the refugees who returned from exile have been
resettled. However, economic and social reintegration remains a priority, requiring the provision
of permanent shelter, and support for building sustainable livelihoods and enhancing social
capital.
25.   However, the disbursement of the funds made available by the Credit was slower than
planned. Based on budgetary requirements, it was planned that US$35 millions would have been
disbursed by December 31 1997, but only the amount of US$19.3 millions was disbursed. First,
-4-



while the project was declared effective on August 26, 1997, the first disbursement was made
only on October 2, 1997, a delay of five weeks. Secondly, the BNR could not find sufficient
import documents to justify disbursements at the planned rate. Public sector imports are largely
financed by external aide and therefore are not eligible for financing by the credit. Private
imports were growing but sill remained low, estimated to be about US$86 million in 1997.
Furthermore, many private importers did not use the banking system for their import
transactions; these transactions therefore did not have the required documentation to be eligible
for financing by the credit. Consequently the flow of fully documented private imports was
limited.
26.   At the request of the Government, 25 percent of the credit had been allocated to finance
public sector imports but no eligible imports could be found to utilize this allocation. Eventually,
the Government requested and IDA agreed, to reallocate funds from the public sector to the
private sector, noting that the private sector would be able to utilize the funds before the agreed
closing date of the Credit.
27.   Furtherrnore in 1997, shortfalls in expected donor financing, including the delay in
utilizing the proceeds from the ERRC, necessitated a drastic review of the budget at mid-term,
including a reduction in budget allocations to the social sectors. Consequently, the agreed
expenditure targets for the social sectors were not met. In 1998, shortfalls in donor financing,
some of this related to donor concerns over Rwanda's military involvement in the DRC, as well
as an increase in military expenditures associated with DRC crisis, resulted in budget cuts for
non-military areas. Consequently, the expenditures on the social sector priorities were below
budget allocations.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
28.   The factors that facilitated implementation and the achievement of project objectives
were:
1.   The lessons from the design and implementation of the previous Emergency Recovery
Credit (ERC) were well learned and applied in the design of ERRC. The experience
accumulated by Borrower in the ERC proved useful in mitigating bureaucratic delays
in the implementation of the ERRC. The participation of the Resident mission staff in
the preparation of the ERRC, and the staffing of a Disbursement Unit in the Resident
Mission, facilitated supervision, communications and implementation.
ii.  The Bank was able to bring its growing experience in post-conflict economic
reconstruction to bear on the design and implementation of the ERRC.
iii.  There was an atmosphere of trust and frank dialogue between the Bank and the
Borrower at all stages of the project cycle.
29.   The major factors that adversely affected the project were:
-5-



i.  the low volume of eligible private sector imports that slowed the speed of
disbursement; and
ii.  the shortfall in donor funding for the budget and the increase in military expenditures
such that social sector expenditure targets could not be met.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
30.   The sustainability of the achievements under the Credit is uncertain. The main
determinants of project sustainability include; the ability of the GOR to stay on track on its
economic reforms, build its institutional capacity, and reinforce its efforts on national integration
and reconciliation. Furthermore, the continued active engagement of donors in the development
process in Rwanda is essential for sustainability. While the Government commitment to the
reforms and to national reconciliation is strong, its capacity is weak, the socio-political
environment is difficult and donor support is fragile. National reconciliation also is influenced by
events in the region, particularly in the DRC. Rwanda does not have control over these events.
31.   Regarding economic reforms, in 1997, the Government entered into dialogue with the
Bretton Woods institutions for support for its reform program and assistance in mobilizing
resources for reform. In June 1998, the Government adopted a Policy Framework Paper (PFP),
and the Bank organized a donor meeting in Stockholm that raised US$250 million to support the
reform program. Subsequently, the Fund approved an SDR71 million three year arrangement
under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) and the African Development Bank
(AfDB) approved a US$20 million Structural Adjustment Credit. The reform program, initiated
in 1995, was accelerated in early 1998, with substantial progress in privatization, public sector
reforms and fiscal and trade areas. Recent reviews of performance of the reform program by
Bank and IMF staff show that reform program is largely on track. However, donor support has
weakened due to Rwanda's involvement in the DRC war. This puts the economic recovery and
reform program risk.
32.   While security within Rwanda has improved since late 1998, security remains a major
concern to the Government and security-related spending a burden on the budget. An important
dimension to a sustainable security and national reconciliation in Rwanda is an international
agreement that ends the war in the DRC and provides for security along the DRC-Rwanda
border. In the meantime, the Government has stepped up its efforts on national reconciliation and
has launched wide-ranging discussions among the political parties on the social, political and
economic development of Rwanda. Furthermore, it has begun to implement the related
provisions in the Arusha Accord by setting up the commissions on national reconciliation and
human rights.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
33.   The Bank's performance at appraisal and during implementation is rated satisfactory. The
preparation/appraisal of the credit benefited from earlier joint emergency assessment missions
-6-



between the Bank and the UN, and the Bank, the Fund and the AfDB. These helped to determine
the critical needs of the country during the emergency and articulate programs and policies for
the transition from emergency to sustainable development. The preparation of the credit
benefited from the accumulated experience in the Bank on post-conflict reconstruction. To meet
the urgent financial needs of the Borrower, the Credit provided for an exceptional 25 percent
retroactive financing to be in effect three months before the date of the end of the appraisal. The
Bank processed withdrawal applications and frequently communicated with the government to
apprise itself on the reasons for any delays. The Resident Mission worked closely with the
Borrower on implementation problems. The appointment of a disbursement assistant in the
Resident mission facilitated communications and problem solving.
34.   The Bank could have designed the import documentation requirements to suit the specific
characteristics of the local importers. Many imports could not meet the documentary
requirements because their values were less than US$10,000 or the importers did not use bank
transfers. Imports financed by suppliers credit, which included many of those made by the large
importers, could not easily qualify for reimbursement under the credit. Consequently the flow of
eligible imports was slow, and out of step with the financing needs of the budget.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
35.   The experience gained during the implementation of the previous ERC proved essential
in improving Borrower capability in the project preparation and implementation processes. Thus
Borrower's performance was satisfactory. However, for an emergency operation, the Borrower
was somewhat slow in approving the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). Consequently the
effectiveness came over six weeks after the DCA was signed. Similarly, it took almost another
six weeks after effectiveness for the first request for disbursement. The Borrower could have
started the collection of documents following appraisal as the project allowed retroactive
financing. Finally, the Borrower did not meet the agreed social sector expenditure targets in
FY97, and the actual expenditures for the social sectors were generally below budget allocations
in FY98. The borrower was also slow in providing the audit of the Credit. Nevertheless, there
was a sincere effort on the Borrower to make the project successful. The Borrower performance
is therefore satisfactory despite these bureaucratic delays attributable to lack of capacity.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
36.   The outcome of the ERRC project was satisfactory. The intent of the Credit was to
provide budgetary resources quickly to the economy through the financing of both public and
private sector imports. Eventually the operation financed only the private sector imports (100%
of the disbursements) due to the lack of eligible public sector imports. The Credit provided an
equivalent of 10.6 percent of the average annual recurrent expenditure over 1997 and 1998. This
facilitated the provision of government services to a population contending with the resettlement
and reintegration of refugees. The outcome was improved macro-economic fundamentals--high
growth of GDP, low inflation, stable exchange rates, increasing government revenues and
-7-



declining fiscal and external deficits. Progress on reintegration of refugees was largely
satisfactory.
I. RECENT AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
37.   The priorities of Rwanda are to diversify the economy, sustain economic growth and
stability, open up economic opportunities to all Rwandans, accelerate the process of national
reintegration and reconciliation and work for regional peace and cooperation. These objectives
would be facilitated by continuing efforts in the restoration of basic education, health, and public
infrastructure, as well as by government initiatives to assist the most vulnerable groups,
especially single parent families and orphans (an estimated 32 percent of households in Rwanda
are headed by women). In addition to the ERRC, the Bank supported the socio-economic
recovery by continuing to implement the IDA portfolio of investment projects, refocusing them
where necessary to meet high priority needs. In 1997, the Board approved a US$45 million
supplemental IDA credit to the existing transport project to complete the Gitarama-Kibuye road,
a major artery through economically active region in the south-west of the country. In 1998, the
Bank also approved a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) type credit of US$5 million to
support efforts on national reintegration in selected rural communities. This credit, was
specifically designed to try out approaches to national reconciliation based on empowering local
communities to design and implement their own development programs. The results from this
LIL would be used to guide participatory approaches to projects in Rwanda.
38.   The 1998 CAS proposed that Rwanda should be treated as a special case and given
substantial international assistance despite the high risk and uncertainty about outcomes. On
March 30, 1999 the Board approved an Economic Recovery Credit [Cr. 3182-RW] to Rwanda
for SDR 53.0 million (US$75 million). The new ERC, part of the Bank's contribution to the
international effort for the reconstruction of Rwanda, will advance the CAS goals of
(i) revitalizing agriculture and the rural economy; (ii) developing human resources and capacity;
and (iii) promoting the private sector and effective government. Reforms to be supported by the
ERC will increase rural incomes, revitalize rural production, and facilitate private sector
production growth. The increase in budgetary resources will finance critical government services,
particularly spending on education, health and reintegration activities. It will also enhance
economic growth and stability. The reform program will enable Rwanda's economy make the
transition, defacto and de jure, from state control to a market based orientation and open up
economic opportunities to all Rwandese. A climate of economic revival, with private sector
growth, increased rural economic activity and a reduction in poverty, would strengthen the
process of national reintegration and reconciliation.
39.  In addition to the ERC, the CAS proposed to support Rwanda with two other projects in
FY99. These were an agricultural sector Learning and Innovation Credit (LIL), and a rural water
project, in keeping with the emphasis on poverty reduction and rural development. The
preparation of these projects is underway. An update of the 1998 CAS is underway; which will
propose future operations for FY00 and beyond. These operations are likely to focus on human
resource development, agriculture and rural economy and the private sector.
-8-



J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
40.   The credit was an effective instrument in an emergency, post-conflict situation, for
improving the provision of government services and stimulating private investment and
production. The economic, political and social returns from such an investment in a post conflict
environment can be considerable, given the importance of sustaining economic recovery and
stability in an otherwise volatile environment. However, to be effective, the design of the project
needs to be sensitive to the capabilities in such situations.
41.   The approach of keeping the design of the ERRC simple and making minimum demands
on scarce Borrower capacity, the efforts by all parties to apply the lessons of the first emergency
credit, and the good dialogue between the Bank and the Borrower, facilitated the implementation
of the project. Nevertheless, the use of a positive list of eligible imports, the floor placed on the
value of import transactions which could be financed by the Credit, and the stringent import
documentary requirements, slowed disbursements and perhaps reduced the developmental impact
of the Credit. Imports are essential for jump-starting a post-conflict economy but resources are
often limited and consequently import levels are low. Import transactions often do not use the
banking system and do not have the full documentation normally required to justify imports.
Thus, the link of disbursements to imports and the stringent documentation requirements delay
the flow of urgently needed funds for the budget. Although the credit disbursed relatively
quickly, within 15 months of Board approval, this was six months longer than planned. It is
recommended that in these situations, emergency quick-disbursing operations should dispense
with the link to imports and follow the simplified procedures for adjustment operations approved
by the Board on February 1, 1996. While this involves more risk, the returns from moving
quickly would offset the higher risk.
-9-



PART II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION FROM THE BORROWER PERSPECTIVE
-10-



PROJECT IN:LEMENTAION FROM B-ORROWER'S PERPECT                 .
The massive return of an estimated 1.3 million refugees to Rwaada within six weeks in
November and December 1996, put strains on the economy whose recovery was still very
fagile and increased the challenges of resettlement and reintegration. There was an
immediate demand for permanent shelter, support for building sustainable livelihoods,
provision of education and health services, capacity building and food aid. Given this
situation at the end of 1996, the ERRC became part of the effort by the World Bank to
play a constructive role in the international effort for the reconstruction, rapid economic
recovery, peace and stability in Rwanda and the Great Lakes region
The main objectives of the ERRC were to facilitate the economic and social reintegration
of all returned reiagees and other vuineiable groups into their cormmunities, and assisting
them in building sustainable livelihoods. The ERRC was also to lay the foundation for
longer renr sustainable development by rehabilitating and reconstructing economic and
social infrastructre, reinforcing local capacity, promoting income generating activities,
rebuilding social capital and strengthening Justice and security within a stable
macroeconomic framework. The credit, therefore. covered the following areas:
i) Rural and urban seatlements (housing, water and sanitation, roads);
ii) Social infrastructure (Education and Health);
iii) Sustainable livelihoods (agiculture, income and employment generation, micro-
credit for enterprises);
iv) Capacity building at the community and national levels including security and justice.
Despite several difficulties associated with disbursement procedures and requirements,
the ERRC was a successful operation. The entire amount programmed was disbursed and
the credit was closed on &  315' December 1998 as envisaged. It made valuable
contributions to economic and social recovery and stability. The availability of foreign
exchange from the credit provided the private sector with the required imports for
production and allowed the sector to continue its growth trend since 1995. This is
evidenced by the growth of the industry sector by 16 percent and 10 percent in 1997 and
1998, respectively. The foreign exchange also contributed to the increase in the level of
international reserves from 3 months of import cover in 1996 to 5.5 months of imports
cover at 1998 and also facilitated the maintenance of stable exchange rate levels in 1997
and 1998.
The counterpart funds in Rwandan francs allowed the Government to increase it's
spending in the social sector especially in education and health and facilitated the
reintegration and resettlement of the returned refugees. It also restored the capacity of
government.
A nrumber of lessons were leamt during the implementation of the ERRC agreement.
First, the allocation of 25 percent of the credit to finance public sector imports at a time
when public sector imports were largely financed by donor external aid delayed the
disbursement of a large amount of the credit during the first year. Second, the use of the
positive list of eligible imports, the floor of 10,000 US dollars placed on the value of
-11-



import travsactions which could be financed by the credit and the stingent import
dIcumentation reqmentsl slowed the disbursement considerably and reduced the
developmen impact of the credit As a result of cumbersome banking procedures, most
importers do not use the baning systern for their imports and, therefore, do not have thc
fiu documentation required to justify imports under the credit.
In view of the importance of World Bank credits for promoting economic growth and
financial stability in Rwanda, it is recommended that future credits should dispense with
the linkages discussed above. In particular. they should avoid the split between private
and public sector imports and the linkage to eligible imports and import documentation
should be simplified. The Central Bank is urged to remove all existing bottlenecks in
foreign exchange operations in order to allow importers to use the banking system for
their imports and thereby speed up disbursement of future credits.
-12-



PART III: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial   Partial     Negligible   Not applicable
Macro Policies                0             0             0              0
Sector Policies               O             0             0              0
Financial Objectives          0             0             0              0
Institutional Development     O             O             O              0
Physical Objectives           O             O             O              01
Poverty Reduction              O0                         LI OI
Gender Issues                 O             O             C
Other Social Objectives       O             O             L              0
Environmental Objectives      O             O             O              0
Public Sector Management      O             E             [1             L
Private Sector                0             O             O              LI
Development
Other: Reintegration          LI            0             L              L
B. Project Sustainabilit        Likely             Unlikely              Uncertain
(v')                 (/)                   (1)
I                    LI0                   R
C. Bank Perfonnance              Highly
Satisfactory     Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                E                    L                    LI
Preparation Assistance        O                    021                  L
Appraisal                     0                    L                    L
Supervision                   L                    E                    L
-13-



Highly
D. Borrower Performance                satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
("I)         (1)           (1)
Preparation                            0             0            0
Implementation                         0             0            0
Covenant Compliance                    0             0            0
Operation (if applicable)              0            0             0
Highly                                     Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome         satisfactory Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
0            0              0              0
-14-



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                    Purpose                 FY (Bank) - Status
of
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. Sectoral & Pre-investinent   Assist Government to strengthen its  1987     Closed
Studies                     planning and investment capabilities
2. Energy Sector            Promote rational energy policies and     1993     On-going
establish basis for efficient utilization of
Rwanda's energy resources.
3 Communications II         Promote efficient communications through  1990    On-going
institutional reform.
4. Private Sector Development  Promote expansion of the private sector,  1993  On-going
establish APEX line of credit and support
fund, and support for institutional
strengthening.
5. Water Supply II          To improve the quality and quantity of   1987     Closed
drinking water in rural areas.
6. Transport Sector         Develop planning capacity of the         1990     On-going
government, improve road maintenance
ability, promote private sector and
liberalize price.
7. Health and Population    Support implementation of the National   1991     On-going
Health Strategy, and strengthen the
government's capacity to formulate and
carry out population policy.
8. Education Sector         Consolidate and expand primary           1991     On-going
education, improve overall quality of
education, and strengthen sector's
management capacity.
9. Food Security and Social    Rehabilitate social and economic      1992     On-going
Activities                  infrastructure, promote public participation
in small-scale productive activities, and
improve the nutrition of poor and
vulnerable groups.
1 O.Emergency Recovery     Provide finance for high priority private  1995    Closed
Credit                     sector imports, counterpart funds to restore
key economic and social services and
rebuild institutional capacity.
Following Operations
1. Community Reintegration    Compare different approaches to national  1998  Approved
and Development Project     reconciliation based on empowering local
communities to design and implement their
own development programs
2. Economic Recovery Credit  Support the Govemment's reform program  1999     Approved
which is being carried out in parallel with
programs to enhance national reintegration
and reconciliation
-15-



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle   Date Planned              Date Actual/Latest
Estimate
Identification           January/February 1997     February 1-7 1997
Preparation              February/May 1997         February/May 1997
Appraisal                May 12 1997               May 12 1997
Negotiations             May 21 1997               May 21 1997
Board presentation       July 1997                 June 25 1997
Signing                  August 1997               July 9 1997
Effectiveness            August 26 1997            August 26 1997
Project completion       September 30 1998         September 30 1998
Loan closing             December 31 1998          December 31 1998
-16-



Table 4: Cumulative Estimate and Actual Disbursements
(SDR millions)
Bank Fiscal  FY98 Ql FY98 Q2  FY98 Q3  FY98 Q4  FY99 Ql FY99 Q2  FY99 Q3  FY99 Q4
Year
Appraisal    10.00    15.00    11.70    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
estimate
Cumulative   10.00    25.00    36.70    36.70    36.70    36.70    36.70    36.70
Actual       0.00     14.08    9.17     4.06     9.38     0.00     0.00      0.00
Cumulative   0.00     14.08    23.25    27.31    36.69    36.69    36.69    36.69
Actual as %   -       56.32    63.35    74.41    99.97    99.97    99.97    99.97
of estimate
-17-



Table 5: Project Costs
Categories     Appraisal Estimate   Estimate during      Actual/Latest
(SDR M)        effectiveness Date      Estimate
(SDR M)             (SDR M)
1. Eligible Imports      36.7
(a) Public Sector      27.45              27.45
(b) Private Sector     9.25               9.25                36.7(a)
2. Consultants
Services
(a) Short-term TA
(b) Procurement
agency
Total                  36.7               36.7                36.7
(a) In July 7 1998 the Bank authorized a reallocation of funds from the public sector imports to
the private sector imports for an amount of SDR9.25 millions.
-18-



Table 6: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The Project complied with all applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
-19-



Table 7: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stages of Produce Cycle            Actual                    Actual
Staff weeks               US$(000)
Preparation to appraisal           35                        92.5
Appraisal                           10.2                     34.63
Negotiations through Board          6.3                      20.16
approval
Supervision                         2.3                       10.8
Completion                          5.4                       16.3
Other lending costs
Total                               59.2                     174.39
-20-



Table 8: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project    Month/   Number  Specialized   Per. Rating        Per. Rating     Types of Problems
Cycle               Year       of       Staff Skills  Implementation  Development
Persons  Represented   Status         Objectives
Through Appraisal    3/97      6        a,b,b,e,l,j
Appraisal through    5/97      5        b,b,e,l,m,
Board Approval
Board through       6-8/97    2         b,m
effectiveness
Supervision 1        11/97     3        b,b,l               S               S            Slower than
expected
disbursements
Supervision 2       3/98       2        b,b                 S               S
Supervision 3       8/98       3        b,b,l               S               S         Late audit of
project
Supervision 4
Completion          2/99       2        b,b
Key to Staff Skills
a = Agriculturist                    e = Manager and Res. Rep.      i Rural Development
b = Economist and Principal Economist   f = Country Officer..      j= Social Scientist
c = Private Sector Development Spslt.  g = Procurement Specialist          k = Energy Specialist
d = Division Chief                   h= Public Sector Mgt. Spslt    I = Operations/Analyst
m= Lawyer
Note: Number of Persons refers to persons participated in the different missions; therefore, if one participates in
three missions during preparation to appraisal that is considered as three persons.
-21-



