Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2969 RW
Development Credit Agreement
(Emergency Reintegration and Recovery Project)
between
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 9, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2969 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 9, 1997, between RWANDESE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter from the Borrower, dated April 
22, 1997, describing a program of activities and policies designed to assist in the 
reintegration of a large number of refugees into productive economic activities and to 
support national reconciliation, poverty reduction and long-term sustainable 
development (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to 
the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in the 
financing of urgently needed imports required during such execution; 
(B) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided, in 
support of the Program, to provide such assistance by making a Credit to the Borrower 
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9 is modified to read: “”Project” means the 
imports and other activities that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.” 
(b)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: “The Borrower shall be entitled to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions.” 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted.
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: “(c) Not later than six months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of 
their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.” (f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and 
Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and “BNR” means the “Banque Nationale du Rwanda”, the 
Central Bank of the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirty six million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 36,700,000).
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of imports required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Page  3
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each May 15 and November 15, commencing November 15, 2007 and ending May 15, 2037.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2017 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03.  (a)  Without limitation or restriction to the provision of 
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, in conjunction with the 
Association, undertake, not later than March 31, 1998, a review of the progress of the 
Project and the Program, based on performance indicators satisfactory to the 
Association.
Page  4
(b)
Prior to such review, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for 
its review and comments, a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project 
and the Program, as well as identified deficiencies and proposed solutions, in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Following such review, the Borrower shall promptly undertake such 
corrective actions as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association, or 
such other action as shall be necessary, in the Association’s opinion, as a result of 
the review referred to in paragraph (a) above, for the achievement of the objectives 
of the Project and the Program.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall ensure that the relevant services within the 
BNR shall: (a) monitor the implementation of the Project; (b) advise private 
enterprises on issues related to the implementation of the Project; and (c) prepare 
quarterly progress reports and requests for withdrawal from the Credit Account.
Section 3.05.  Without limitation to or restriction upon its reporting 
requirements under Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall, with effect from the quarter ending September 30, 1997, submit, 
quarterly, to the Association for review, progress reports giving details, inter alia, 
of: (a) the status of disbursements and procurement; (b) the volume of imports; (c) 
the status of the implementation of the Program; (d) the amount of counterpart funds 
generated by the Project; and (e) any Project implementation policy issues identified 
and proposed solutions thereto. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section  
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;  
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
Page  5
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness; Termination 
Section 6.01.  The following event is specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has appointed a coordinator for the 
Project, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, within 
its Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning.
Section 6.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01.  The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower  for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box 158
Kigali
Rwandese Republic
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIN-RWANDA
22687
MINFIN-RW
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Page  6
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
By  /s/ Theogene Rudasingwa 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s/ Nils A. Tcheyan 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
TABLE WAS DONE IN COLUMN FORMAT
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term ”Eligible Imports” means imports of 
commodities, equipment and goods specified in the Annex to this Schedule.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for imports made by the government or government agencies;
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
9,175,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after February 28, 1997;
(d)
expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to SDR 9,250,000 
for petroleum products;
(e)
expenditures made for imports under contracts below an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $10,000; 
(f)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit, loan or grant; 
(g)
expenditures (i) in the territories of any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or 
(ii) on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such 
payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
Page  7
(h)
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower during the procurement or execution of that contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation. 4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit 
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under 
contracts not exceeding $2,000,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
Eligible Imports
Live animals for breeding.
Seed grains and fruits and spores for planting.
Oil and chemical oil products.
Sugar and industrial glucose.
Petroleum coke, natural and other asphalt, industrial petroleum jelly and 
paraffin.
Inorganic chemical products.
Hydrocarbons and derivatives.
Pharmaceuticals, medicines.
Fertilizers.
Inks and toners.
Basic oils.
Artificial wax, powders and candles.
Chemical products, insecticides, herbicides, fungicides.
Plastic and cellulose products.
Rubber products (including pipes and cables, tires and surgical products).
Wood and wood products.
Wood pulp, cellulose fibers and paper and carton refuse.
Paper and paper products.
Books, textbooks, engineering and architectural drawing materials.
Cotton and jute fibers and textiles.
Synthetic fibers and textiles.
Ceramic products (including construction bricks, tiles, pipes, etc.).
Glass and glass products.
Iron and steel products.
Copper and copper products.
Nickel and nickel products.
Page  8
Aluminum and aluminum products.
Lead and lead products.
Zinc and zinc products.
Motors and electrical machinery (gas generators, turbines, pumps, etc.).
Motors and electrical machinery (power generators, transformers, bobbins, etc.).
Telephones and radiophone equipment.
Motor cars, tractors, cycles, and other vehicles (including parts).
Photocopiers, printers.
Topographical, geodesic and mathematical instruments.
Medical instruments.
Gas, liquid or electrical meters.
Medical and surgical furniture.
Prefabricated constructions.
Office equipment.
SCHEDULE 2 
Procurement
Section I:
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Eligible Imports of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto, except that bids from 
within the territory of the Borrower shall not be invited or accepted. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.  
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for imports listed in the Annex to Schedule 
1 to this Agreement shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 
equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures.  
1.
Eligible Imports of goods estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 shall be 
procured in accordance with established commercial practices, satisfactory to the 
Page  9
Association. 
2.
All goods procured in accordance with this Part C shall be subjected to 
pre-shipment inspection for quality, quantity and price verification.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Prior Review With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
2.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
