Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6835-CA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 19, 1987
Africa - Country Department 1
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
ttieir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaaion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Francs (CFAF)
US$            =  CFAF 305 (October 1987)
CFAF 1 Million = US$3,279
MEASURES
1     = 1.09 yd.
1 M2 = 10.76 sq. ft.
1 km2 = 0.38 sq. mi.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APE       Parents' Association (Association des Parents d'Eleves)
CNFC      National In-service Training Center (Centre National de Formation
Continue)
CPR       Regional Pedagogy Center (Centre Pedagogique Regional)
DAP       Personnel Directorate (Direction de l'Administration du
Personnel)
DBCM      Budget, Accounts and Materials Directorate (Direction du Budget,
de la Comptabilite et du Materiel)
DCES      School Construction/Equipment Directorate (Direction des
Constructions et des Equipements Scolaires)
DEPFI     Primary Education Directorate (Direction des Enseignements
Prescolaire et Fondamental)
DGAF      Administration and Finance General Directorate (Direction
Generale de l'Administration et des Finances)
DPRE      Programming and External Relations Directorate (Direction des
Projets et des Relations Exterieures)
DRPFE     Pedagogy and Teacher Training Directorate (Direction de la
Recherche Pedagogique et de la Formation des Enseignants)
ENI       Primary Teachers' College (Ecole Normale des Instituteurs)
IA        Regional Academic Inspectorate (Inspection Academique)
I1F       Primary School Inspectorate (Inspection de l'Enseignement
Fondamental)
INRAP     National Pedagogical Institute (InFtitut National de la Recherche
et l'Animation Pedagogique)
MEN       Ministry of National Education (Ministere de l'Education
Nationale)
MESRES    Higher Education and Scienttfic Research Ministry (Ministere de
l'Enseignement Superieur et de la Recherche Scientifique)
SAB       National Scholarship Service (Service Autonome des Bourses)
SAL       Structural Adjustment Program (Programme d'Ajustement Structural)
URCES     Regional School Building/Equipment Unit (Unite Regionale des
Constructions et des Equipements Scolaires)
FISCAL YEAR                                            SCHOOL YEAR
January 1 - December 31                                  September - Augus.t



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE .........................      iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .* .......****.**.. ..............           v
I.   INTRODUCTION ....... .....................................         1
II.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR .... *............. ... ................      1
A. Overview ..........      **s*vssov^^*X******                    1
B. Main Issues in Educational Development       ..................  1
1. Poor Quality and Low Internal Efficiency..............       2
2. Weak Sector Menagement and Planning Capacity    .........    3
3. Financial Constraints and Poor ResourLe Allocation ...       3
C. The Government's Sector Strategy       ........................  5
D. The Bank Group's Role ............ . . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . . . .  5
III. THE PROJECT *....**       ......................................   6
A. Project Objectives and Description ......................       6
1. Rehabilitation of the System for Improved Quality and
Efficiency of Primary and Higher Education ............      7
2. Improved Sector Management for More Effective
Use of Resources ....... *...t. .*.... ***......  ........  11
B. Project Cost and Financing .......  00.......................  14
C. Project Implementation ... .... ............ . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .  15
1. Preparation, Manageme't and Institution Building .....      15
2. Procurement, Disbursements, and Special Account ......      16
3. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting   ....................   19
IV.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ....,...............,.........         19
V.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...............      20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
the Central African Republic in March/April 1987. The mission members were
Christopher Shaw (mission leader, educator); Bernard Abeille (architect);
FranSoise Delannoy (project officer); and Fran'ois Orivel (economist,
consultant). This report was drafted by the mission members and completed
by 1Hr. Shaw. Mmes. Ann Joseph and Micheline Thibaud assisted in processing
the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- is -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1-1 Basic Data Sheet
2-1 Structure of the Education System
2-2 Organization Charts of the Ministry of National Education and Ministry
of Higher Education and Scientific Research
2-3 Statistical Profile of the Education System
2-4 Comparative Education Indicators
2-5 Internal Efficiency, Quality and Student Achievement
2-6 Comparison of Primary Sehool Investment Coats
2-7 Returns to Education
2-8 Analysis of Primary Teacher Supply and Demand
2-9 Financial Implications of Educational Policies
2-10 The Government's Educational Strategy
3-1 Action Plan and Annual Review Program
3-2 Support for the Retraining of the Primary Teaching Force
3-3 Development of Textbook and Podagogic Publishing and Distribution
System
3-4 Summary of Primary School Rehabilitation and Preventive Maintenance
Program
3-5 Support to the Inapectorate System
3-6 Improvements in Higher Education Quality, Planning and Finance
3-7 Support to Human Resources Management
3-8 Financial and Physical Resource Management
3-9 Project Management and Responsibilities for Project Coordination
3-10 Project Costs and Financing
3-11 Summary of Recurrent Expenditures and Cost Savings Generated by the
Project
3-12 Implementation Schedule
3-13 Summary of Foreign and Local Specialist Services
3-14 Summary of Foreign snd Local Fellowships and braining
3-15 Procurement Procedures
3-16 Summary of the Government's Contribution
3-17 Disbursement Profile
Map



- iii -
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILIIATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
Ref No.                       Documents                         Document Code
1.        "Cojuts, financement et rentabilite economique      D03650
de Ve'ducation en Republique Centrafricaine"'
F. Orivel; septembre 1986.
2.         Compte-rendu de la 4ieme seance du Comit'           D03648
d'Etude et de Pr'eparation du 3ieme Projet
Education RCAIIDA"; d'ecembre 1986.
3.        'Etude sur les bou. siers et le budget des           D03649
bourses de la Republique Centrafricaine", P.
Rigner, R. Sopio et J.-B. Zinat; janvier 1987.
4.        'Rapport sur l'ENI de Bambari et discussion          D03655
budgStaire 1987", Direction des Projets et des
Relations Exterieures; fevrier 1987.
5.        'Amilioration de la qualite et de l1efficacite       D03658
de l'enseignement fondumental - requate de
financement presentee * la Banque Mondiale",
R4publique Centrafricaine; fevrier 1987.
6.         Synthese des rapports de rentree rediges par        D03653
los chefs de circonscription des enseignements
prescolaire et fondamental 1, annee academique
1986-1987", Direction Enseignements Prescolaire
et Fondamental 1; 1987.
7.        'Rapport sur lee Associations des parent             D03656
d'Eleves (APE) en Rspublique Centrafricaine",
M. Deballe, J.-P. Danagoro; 1987.
Prolect Working Paoers
S.        'Priparation du Troisieme Projet Education,          D03659
composante gestion du personnel et budget,
rapport No. 1", Herblin Conseil; decembre 1986.
9.        "Troisieine Projet d'Educationw fiches de            D03652
travail", The British CouncillThe Publishers'
Association; novembre 1986.



- iv -
10.        "Plan d'organisation et d'effectif, Ministere        D03647
de l'Education National", UNDP, Conseil
Permanent de la Reforme de l'Administration
Centrafricaine; mars 1987.
11.        "Rapport minute: Etude sur la mise en place          D03646
d'un systeme d'entretien preventif et de
gestion des installations et du materiel'p
Louis Berger; avril 1987.
Other References
12.        'Objectifs de formation, fonctionnement et           D03660
perspectives d'un avenir meilleur a l'Ecole
Normale d'Instituteurs (ENI) a Bangui: memoire
de psycho-pedagogie", R. Bela, R. Makakpio,
P.-O. Ngba-Dangoua; juin 1984.
13.        "Programme de formation des maltres de 1'Ecole       D03662
Fondamentale", Institut Nationale d'Education
et de Formation; juin 1984.
14.        'Education et formation: situation et                D03654
perspeGtives de developpement (2 tomes)",
UNESCO; mai 1985.
15.        "Programation nationale de la cooperation            D03657
technique, rapport-2ieme phase", UNDP; novembre
1986.
16.        "Annuaire de statistiques, 1984 - 1985",             D03651
Direction des Etudes de la Planification et de
la Programmation; no date.
17.        "Annuaire de statistiques, 1985 - 1986",             D03661
!4inist;re de l'Education; no date.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNMARY
Borrower:      Central African Republic
Beneficiarv:   Ministry of National Education;
Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research; and
National Scholarship Service
IDA Credit
Amount:        SDR 14.1 million (US$18.0 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard with 40 years maturity
Pro ect
Description:   The project would support the Government's education strategy
within its structural adjustment framework, by reviewing
annually an action plan containing sector budgetary targets,
the scholarship program and budget, and staffing and
pedagogical targets. Specifically, the project aims to:
I.   Rehabilitate the Education System for Improved Quality
and Efficiency in:
1.   Primary schooling by:
(a) raising teacher quality nationwide through
workshops and in-service training for 120
trainers, pedagogical advisors and inspectors;
and about 3,500 teachers and school directors;
(b) improving learning conditions through: (i) a
national pedagogical *aaterials program to
supply about 430,000 books and teachers'
guides; and (ii) a regionally phased school
rehabilitation and maintenance program for
about 960 classrooms, both while encouraging
community participation; and
(c) strengthening the pedagogical support/super-
visory functions nationwide through the
reinforcement of 3 regional academic
inspectorates and the provision of basic
transportation and related operating costs for
primary school inspectorates.



- vi -
2. Higher education at the University of Bangui by:
(a) improving study facilities through a university
library extension and the provision of 7,500
additional books, and the rehabilitation of the
science faculty building and provision of
essential laboratory equipment and supplies.
II. Imgrove Sector Management for a More Effective Use of
Resources in:
1.  the Ministry of National Education (MEN) by:
(a) strengthening its capacity to plan, allocate
and control: (i) personnel, and (ii) financial
and physical resources through office
improvements, data processing, training, and
specialist services for MEN's key Directorates;
and
(b) reinforcing its implementation capacity through
the creation of a project coordination unit.
2.   Higher education by:
(a) promoting rationalization and reduction of
expenditures on scholarships through the devel-
opment of the National Scholarship Service; and
(b) reinforcing the planning capacity at the
University of Bangui.



- vii -
Summary of Prolect Coat Estimates
(net of taxes and duties)
Local     Foreignl  Total
---- (US$ millions) ----
I. Rehabilitate the Education System for
Improved Quality and Efficiency in:
1. Primary schooling:
(a) In-service training                     2.3        0.5       2.8
(b) Improving learning conditionst
(i) Pedagogical materials              0.2        2.3       2.5
(ii) Classroom Rehabilitation           4.1        3.2       7.3
(c) Academic and primary inspectorates      0.3        0.7       1.0
2. Higher education (University of Bangui):
(a) Library and science faculty             0.2        0.6       0.8
Component I Sub-total               7.1        7.3      14.4
II. Improve Sector Manasement for a Mors
Effective Use of Resources ins
1. The Ministry of National Education:
(a) Resource Management and Planning
(i) Personnel management               0.0        0.2       0.2
(ii) Financial and Physical
Resources                          0.1        0.3       0.4
(b) Project Implementation capacity         0.4        1.7       2.1
2. Higher education:
(a) the National Scholarship Service        0.1        0.4       0.5
(b) University Planning Unit                0.0        0.1       0.1
Component II Sub-total              0.6        2.8       3.4
Total Base Costs                                    7.7       10.0      17.8
Physical Contingencies                            0.6       0.8        1.4
Price Contingencies                               0.5       1.1        1.6
Sub-total                           1.1        1.9       3.0
Total Project Costs                                 8.8      11.9       20.7
Financing Plan
IDA                                               6.3      11.7       18.0
UNDP                                              0.0       0.1        0.1
APEs                                              1.2       0.0        1.2
Government                                        1.3       0.0        1.3
Total                               8.8       11.9      20.7
=ma     m0am       mam



- viii -
Estimated Disbursementst
--     ----------------- IDA Fiscal Year -----------------
(millions US$)
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Annuals          0.4      0.7     2.2      3.1     3.4     3.9      3.7     0.6
Cumulative:      0.4      1.1     3.3     6.4      9.8    13.7    17.4    18.0
Economic Rate of
Return:           not applicable
Project Benefits
and Riskst        The project will promote improved quality and relevance of
inputs and better resource management, resulting in more
efficient operation, reduced costs per graduate, and
increased pupil achievement. At the primary level, for an
increase in costs per student of 15% (2,250 CFAF), it is
expected that these improvements would translate into a
reduction of the dropout and repeater rates by as much as
30%, and a 40Z decline in the costs per graduate. The
project will ensure a closer qualitative and quantitative
match between the output of the education system and the
needs of the economy especially at the post-secondary
level. A more efficient allocation of resources, combined
with better management, will support, at the sector level,
the Government's structural adjustment program. The
project has two main risks. First, the CAR has no
experience of complex sectoral projects in the field of
education. To ensure that the sector budgetary targets set
out in the ActB n Plan are acted upon, the Ministry of
Economy, Finance and Planning, would participate in the
annual review process. In addition, implementation
problems arising from the complexity of the project are
addressed by staggering the actions envisaged for both
institutional development and the physical rehabilitation
of schools. Second, at present the CAR education sector
suffers from weak financial management, planning and
budgeting, and ongoing projects encounter delays in the
provision of counterpart funds. The project has been
designed to alleviate this situation with a carefully
planned approach of Government to sector rehabilitation; by
the increased participation of local communities with labor
and local inputs; by short-term consultancy services in
financial management; and by the training program for the
national team in project management.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The Government of the Central Africa Republic (CAR) has requested
IDA assistance in financing a project to improve the quality of the education
sector, together with its managerial capacity and financing structure. Total
project costs are estimated at US$20.7 million equivalent (net of taxes and
duties), with a foreign exchange component of US$11.9 million. The Govern-
ment would contribute US$1.3 million, parental associations would contribute
in kind (labor or materials) or through cash the equivalent of US$1.2
million, other donors (UNDP) would cofinance with US$0.1 million; and the
remaining U£$18.0 million would be financed by IDA.
1.2       The project Is consistent with the CAR's structural adjustment
program (financed by Cr. 1732-CA and Cr. A23-CA) and provides support by
introducing expenditure control on scholarships, improving resource
management, and extending the public administration reform to the education
sector. The policy measures proposed in education were developed through a
sector policy dialogue conducted with the CaR authorities during the past
eighteen months. Annex 1 provides the Basic Data.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A.   Overview
2.1       The education system consists of: (a) a six-year primary cycle;
(b) four years of lower, and three years of upper, secondary schooling; and
(c) higher education at the University of Bangui or aDroad. Teachers are
trained at the post-secondary level. The country also has a network of ten
vocational training centers. Since 1986, sectoral responsibility has been
split between: the Ministry of National Education (MEN) for formal education
(general and technical) through the secondary level; the Ministry of Higher
Education and Scientific Research (iESRES) for the ,ertiary level; the
Ministry of Civil Service and Labor for vocational training; and the techni-
cal ministries for their own training programs. Administrative authority for
primary and secondary education is decentralized to Academic Inspectorates
(IAs) located in the regions. Annex 2-1 shows the structure of the education
system, and Annex 2-2, the organization charts of MEN and MESRES.
B. Main Issues in Educational Development ^
2.2       The CAR's education system has achieved wide coverage at moderate
costs. The adult literacy rate in 1985 was estimated at 40X, while primary
enrollments (of which 36% are girls) grew annually by 5.82 in 1980-85,
bringing the gross enrollment ratio to 78%. At 15,000 CFAF, or 18% of GDP
p.c., unit costs per pupil/year are below the average for francophone Africa



- 2 -
(23%). Private schooling at the primary level is virtually negAigible and
accounts for only 8% )f enrollments at the secondary level.  However, these
features are largely offset by three critical issues: (a) poor quality and
low internal efficiency; (b) weak management and planning capacity; and
(c) poor resource allocation exacerbated by severe financial constraints.
Annex 2-3 shows the statistical profile of the sector, and Annex 2-4 gives
educative comparative data.
1.   Poor Quality and Low Internal Efficiency
2.3       The most critical issue Zacing education is its poor quality and
low internal efficiency, especially at the primary level. The underlying
factors are: (a) the inadequacy of teachers' basic and professional skills
(despite the recent revision of the teachers' profile), aggravated by the
absence of in-service training; (b) the lack of experience of school direc-
tors in school and teacher managenent; (c) the dearth of pedagogic materials,
textbooks are scarce, expensive and their production specifications are high;
(d) inefficient or high-cost building techrniques combined with an absence of
repairs or preventive maintenance which have led to a deteriorating school
environment where 60% of primary classrocmis (permanent structures) require
major repairs while the remaining 40% are temporary structures needing
replacement; (e) the inability of inspectorate staff to provide adequate
control and pedagogic support, owing to lack of operating means and up-to-
date knowledge of modern teaching methods; and (f) large average class-sizes
due to inefficient school management and timetables. Understandably, little
student achievement takes place: with average repeater and dropout rates of
about 33% and 12%, only about 21% of an initial cohort eventually graduates
from primary school. Thus, with poor learning conditions and limited selec-
tivity, it takes 24 years of instruction to produce a primary education
graduate (vs. a theoretical six years), plaring the CAR education system
among the least efficient in the world. Qualitative problems continue as
students progress up the educational ladder, producing unit costs per
graduate equivalent to 4.4, 18, 48 and 120 times GNP p.c. at the primary,
secondary general, secondary technical and university levels. At the secon-
dary level, while the number of examination candidates at the junior and
senior secondary examinations have increased by 53% and 85% respectively over
the last six years, selectivity has been strengthened and the success rates
have declined by over half so that the numbers of successful candidates are
either stable or slightly less than six years ago. Over 70% of secondary
school leavers have their diplomas in humanities-based abJects. At the
university level, student achievement is hampered by: (i) poor study faci-
lities and limited library space and books for all subject areas; and
(ii) limited facilities for experimental work in science based subjects. The
library - with one place for every 25 students - is well organized and
managed, but overcrowded and has an aged and limited collection of works.
The stock of science equipment has not been renewed since its original
acquisition in 1970. Annex 2-5 provides details on Internal Efficiency,
Quality and Student Achievement, and Annex 2-6 on Primary School Investment
Costs.



2.   Weak Sector Management and Planning Capacity
2.4       The administrative structure of the formal education system with
two separate ministries -- MEN and MESRES -- is a common feature of the West
African francophor.e countries, and allows simplification of the management of
the system, without the creation of a single, unwieldy department. Giver. the
current levels of management expertise, this arrangement has clear advantages
and is well suited to the CAR, although MEN employs over one-third of the
civil service and manages about one-fourth of the national budget, it is not
equipped to use these resources effectively. This is due to several factors.
First, while the revised structure and decentralization of MEN in January
1986 together with the staffing plan, completed in April 1987, provided a
sound basis for correcting weaknesses and identified redundant posts in MEN,
personnel management has been poor, resulting in an excessive proportion of
non-teachers in the sector, especially in secondary education. Second, this
has been compounded by the lack of coherent, economically sound, and
systematically applied financial procedures, combined with poor investment
planning and programming. Third, MEN's weak capacity in physical planning
and resource management, as well as the sparse, fragmented and unreliable
data on the sector, has carried a high cost in terms of remedial maintenance,
and suboptimal use and expansion of facilities. Fourth, the poor data base,
especially with regard to labor statistics, is compounded by limited capa-
bilities for the collection and analysis of educational statistics. This
ooscures the linkage of the sector with the labor market, and weakens MEN's
ability to ensure a qualitative and quantitative match between demand and
supply at the least cost. Finally, project implementation has been defi-
cient, suffering from staff turnover and the scarcity of experienced managers
and accountants.
3.   Financial Constraints and Poor Resource Allocation
2.5       Budget Constraints.  The Government's commitment to education is
reflected in the share of total public recurrent spending allocated to the
sector -- 24.7% in 1986 -- which, despite a recsnt decline, is higher than
the median for francophone Africa (21.7%). These resources are complemented
by: (a) various private expenditures, equivalent to 7.7% of public
educational expenditures, including a modest 0.5% in contributions made by
parents' associations (APEs); and (b) external support to the recurrent
budget (from the French), used for expatriate teachers' salaries and
materials for secondary schools. With school-age population projected to
grow at 3% p.a. and public recurrent expenditure to fall by 9% in real terms
over the next six years, additional public resources will not be available to
maintain the existing primary enrollment ratio while raising educational
quality. Therefore, financing the necessary pedagogic inputs (in-service
teacher training, textbooks, and increased supervision) will require a
stabilization of the share of the education budget, a widening of the
sector's resource base and more rational and systematic budgetary procedures.
2.6       Skewed expenditure pattern.  Not only are resources tightly con-
strained, but their distribution by level of education and by types of expen-
diture is inadequate, resulting in inequity and inefficiency. For lack of
well-defined allocating criteria and mechanisms, reflecting a long-term



- 4 -
global strategy and clear priorities, the recurrent budget structure by level
has been distorted in favor of higher education. The share of higher educa-
tion, accounting for less than 1% of the students, has risen from 22% in 1982
to 24% in 1986 of total education budgetary resources; that for primary
education, with 83% of the students, fell from 63% in 1982 to 49% in 1986.
This bias is inefficient, both because social rates of return, in CAR as
elsewhere, are much greater in primary '23Z-50% range) than in higher
education (17.5%) and because it has enaourage' students to pursue their
studies beyond economically justified levzla, affecting the quality of
instruction and resulting in graduate unemployment or employment in an
already saturated civil service. Over the same period, secondary education
expenditures have doubled from 8% to 17%, while central administration and
other expenditures have remained close to 10% of the total expenditures.
Annex 2-7 presents an analysis of returns to education in CAR.
2.7       In addition, the spending pattern by nature is distorted in favor
of non-pedagogically efficient inputs. The education sector investment
budget has focused on expansion of the school network (externally financed)
while neglecting regular renewal (Government financed). Its recurrent budget
has also been unbalanced. First, the share of salary expenditures has been
dominant (98% for primary in 1985).  This is not due to high salaries (they
have been frozen since 1982, resulting in serious teacher demotivation and
lack of discipline), but to staff numbers in non-teaching positions (11% of
total staff or 7% at the primary level) and limited non-salary expenditures.
Second, the share of scholarships amounted to 67% of higher education
expenditures or 16% of the total education sector budget in 1985 (see
detailed discussion in para 2.8). Third, at all levels of education, peda-
gogic materials (text and exercise books) and other operating/maintenance
expenses, which are the lifeblood of the sector, have been treated as a
residual and received only 2% of the sector budget (an overestimate, since it
includes student restaurants which are of little pedagogic value). Although
not uncommon in Africa, this is below the minimum required to ensure effec-
tive use of the teaching staff. As a result, the ratio of books/students has
fallen to 1:20, and schools have been left unsupervised, making the system
inefficient. Moreover, for lack of budgetary controls, implementation of
these uncoordinated decisions has never been monitored, making it impossible
to trace expenditures, measure the efficiency of the system, or make specific
recommendations for improvements. It is therefore clear that the corrective
measures taken in 1987, with the revision of the budgetary nomenclature,
require reinforcement if Government's objectives for the sector are to be
attained. Annex 2-3 provides background information on the evolution of
MEN's budget by level of education and type of expenditure, Annex 2-8 on
teacher salaries, and Annex 2-9 on the Financial Implications of Educational
Policies.
2.8       The scholarship issue is serious enough to warrant a separate
discussion. In CAR as elsewhere in Africa, due to loosely defined and
applied eligibility criteria, scholarships have promoted neither academic
excellence nor the qualitative and quantitative match with the labor market.
Because scholarships are not used as a selection/orientation mechanism,
h'igher education facilities are overcrowded, and the vast majority of Stu-
dents continue to choose liberal arts (82% in 1985) where employment pro-
spects are limited, over scientific and technical fields, for which there is
an unmet demand. A CAR characteristic, however, is that 57% of scholarship



-5-
expenditure goes to students abroad, who only represent 29% of the total
number. This policy has been costly in more ways than ones it has encour-
aged young people to study abroad, sometimes for disciplines taught in
Bangui; given the weak selection criteria and poor management, not surpris-
ingly many fail or never return, contributing to the low social return on
Government investment. This policy has also starved the University of Bangui
of the resources (books for libraries, laboratory equipment, maintenance,
etc.) critically needed to offer quality education to those remaining in the
country. Simulations have shown that uncontrolled growth in scholarship
expenditures would drive total education spending beyond 31% of the Govern-
ment budget, negating every possible attempt to improve quality. Actions to
correct this trend, with a review of scholarship rolls started in January
1987 and the abandonment of a policy of guaranteed government employment, tre
an important aspect of Government's efforte to improve its macro-economic
management as per the SAL.
C. The Government's Sector Strategy
2.9       The Government has a two-pronged education strategy aimed for the
long term att (a) improving quality (starting at the primary level) while
increasing relevance to the needs of CAR's economy and society; and (b)
strengthening the management and administration of the sector through
decentralization while mobilizing the support of all the parties involved.
With respect to quality improvements, the Government requested IDA's
assistance in improving the operation of the system, as a prerequisite to a
reform in educational contents and methods. With respect to the training/
employment linkage, the Government proposes to: (i) develop a global frame-
work covering pre- and post-secondary technical education, and vocational
training; (ii) focus on coordination and planning functions; and
(iii) rehabilitate the existing vocational training network in connection
with the needs of individual regions. This strategy makes sense in that it
addresses the key issues in a rational way, allowing for a gradual lifting of
the present financial, human and physical constraints. It therefore deserves
IDA's full support, and has guided the design of the proposed project
(para 3.1). Annex 2-10 details the Government's Sector Policy.
D.   The Bank Group's Role
2.10      Since 1969, 13 IDA credits, two supplemental credits and two
special African facility credits) totalling just over US$151 millions equiva-
lent have been approved for the CAR. Of these, two credits and one supple-
mental credit were for education. The first education project (Cr. 308-CA
for US$3.9 million, effective in 1973 and completed in 1981 with supplementa-
ry credit Cr. 1073-CA for US$0.9 million) supported secondary education and
aimed at providing trained and qualified manpower for the modern sector.
Implemented under difficult conditions, the scope of the project was reduced,
and while quantitative targets were reached, qualitative improvements were
only partially achieved and policy Issues of resource allocation were not
addressed, The ongoing second project (Cr. 1359-CA for US$11.0 million,
effective in 1983) aims at correcting the neglect suffered by primary edu-
cation during the previous decade and improving administration, planning,
evaluation and research where poor quality had hampered balaaced educational
development, but once again does not address the resotmrce allocation or
efficiency issues. Physical components of primary classroom rehabilitation



and maintenance were limited geographically, have progressed well and their
modification and improvement provides the basis for a similar program in new
zones. However, high staff turnover, and weak consultants have led to
disappointing results in the planning component, while poor project manage-
ment, limited counterpart funds, and inefficient financial control have
slowed down implementation and delayed the evaluation component. These weak-
nesses would be corrected under the proposed third project as part of the
strategy mentioned in para 2.9.
2.11      The thrust of IDA's country strategy is the provision of coherent
and consistent support to maximize the impact of the Government's structural
adjustment program. IDA has been asked to help the Government define a
global and long-term framework for the rehabilitation and development of the
education sector, and to identify the policy reforms necessary for
cost-effective resource allocation and investment in education. In this
project, IDA would play a catalytic role in helping to provide this policy
and i..stitutional framework for cost-effective resource allocation and would
help coordinate other aid efforts, primarily through improvements in sector
resource planning, budgeting and management. So far, IDA's assistance has
been instrumental in providing a framework for an educational rehabilitation
program which has guided the actions of other agencies and is coherent with
the activities of the major bilateral donor; France. Continuation of this
involvement through policy advice to follow-up the June 1987 Round Table
meeting is important for ensuring a balanced development of the sector
coherent with the Government's structural adjustment program. Actions to
improve the selectivity and relevance of secondary education are being
undertaken by the UNDP and the French, while actions to tighten the
education/employment linkage are being undertaken by several other agencies
(ILO in institution-building, EDF in planning, AfDB and OPEC in vocational
and technical facilities rehabilitation). Therefore IDA's direct role in
this area would be limited to the development and monitoring of a long-term
global framework for relating employment and training, and the financing of
specific studies to fill certain gaps.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives and Description
3.1       The project would support the implementation of the Government's
educational strategy (para. 2.9) in the context of its structural adjustment
program. To ensure that sufficient resources are available for the
qualitative improvements and increased managerial capacity which are the
project's key objectives, and these resources are optimally allocated; during
negotiations, IDA and the Government discussed and agreed upon a three-year
rolling Action Plan, to be monitored each year during September at a ioint
Government/IDA review. The joint Government/IDA review would examine the
action plan, its interim annual targets, the education sector recurrent
budget, the public investment program for education and progress on project
implementation. It would be related to the review of the public investment
program and public expenditure review undertaken in the framework of the SAL.



- 7 -
ACTION PLAN
The sector budgetary targets (which would have annual intorim values fixod during the
joint review) would aim at: (a) monitoring annually tho proportion of the Government
recurrent budget allocated to the education sector; (b) raising expenditures on
prlmary education froe 62% to at loset 86%, and on materials froe 2# to at least 8% of
the oducation recurrent budgot by 1994; and (c) agreeing with IDA annually on the
composition of tho education investment budget for the coming three years.
The Scholarship program and budget would aim at: (d) reducing Covernment expenditure
on scholarships from 16% to 8% of the education recurrent budg'- during the project
life; and (e) focusing Government funded overseas scholarships on key scientific,
technological and managerial fields not available at the University of Bangui.
Staffing targets would aim at: (f) reducing the proportion of non-teachers in the
total oducation staff from 11X to 7% by 1993 through staff redeployment. In addition,
the joint Covernment/IDA annual review would examine project Implementation
(specifically: the In-service training plan; the personnel plan and the annual
claseroom rehabilitation and maintenance program).
Continued disbursement under the credit would be conditional upon agreement
each year between the Government and IDA on the contents of the Action Plan
and the satisfactory joint annual review of progress made in implementing
this action plan. Annex 3-1 provides details of the Action Plan, and
Annex 2-9 simulates the impact of the above financial policies on the primary
enrollment level.
3.2        The project is specifically designed to help:  (a) rehabilitate the
education system for improved quality and efficiency of primary and higher
education; and (b) improve sector management for a more effective use of
resources in the Ministry of National Education and higher education. These
major project components are discussed as follows.
1.   Rehabilitation of the System for Improved Quality and Efficiency of
Primary and Higher Education
3.3        To rehabilitate the education system for improved quality and
efficiency of both primary and higher education, the project woulds
(a) raise teacher quality nationwide at the primary level through an
in-service training program; (b) improve learning conditions through an
increase in the supply of pedagogical materials in all primary schools and
the rehabilitation of the school environment; (c) support and develop academ-
ic and primary inspectorates; and (d) improve university study facilities
through an extension of the library and renovation of the science faculty.
3.4        Primary Teacher Quality.  In order to restore the delivery of edu-
cation to acceptable cost-effective standards, the project would improve
basic and professional teaching skills of the whole teaching corps.  F;rst,
in PYI a program of workshops, seminars, and task forces would be organized
at the central level for: (a) teacher trainers, to adapt pre-service train-
ing curricula to the new definition of the teachers' profile and role
(para 2.3); (b) inspectors and pedagogical advisors, to improve teacher
supervision and management, and prepare them to conduct the in-service



training program per se; and (c) MEN's key pedagogic and personnel staff, to
formulate detailed proposals to Fmprove teachers' career stream and the use
of human and physical resources. Second, as of PY2, the in-service program
itself would start in the three project regions and extend to two more
regions respectively in PY3 and PY4. The program would be conducted by the
inspectors and pedagogic advisors in the seven regional pedagogy centers
(CPRs), plus the National In-service Training Center (CNFC). It would
consist annually, of one three-week session for school directors and three
modular sessions for the teachers. The program would reach all inspec-
tors/pedagogic advisors, about 84% of school directors, and 58% of primary
teachers. The subjects covered would echo key themes of the project
(including health education), would be related to rural skills and the CAR's
economy and society, and would be reinforced by biweekly radio broadcasts, an
experimental correspondence in-service training course and a pedagogic
liaison bulletin.
3.5       The credit would finance:  (a) furniture, vehicles and equipment
for the existing CPRs and pedagogical supplies for the trainees; (b) about 36
manmonths of local and international specialist services for developing and
delivering the above programs; (c) a total of 24 manmonths of scholarships
abroad and a study trip abroad for the trainers; (d) per diem and travel for
all participants; and (e) selected operating costs on a declining basis.
Annual training plans and budgets will be agreed upon at the joint yearly
review. Details are given in Annex 3-2.
3.6       Pedagogical Materials.  In order to improve learning conditions the
project would: (a) ensure an adequate supply of pedagogically relevant
textbooks, at the lowest possible cost, with an immediate initial supply of
textbooks; and (b) develop MEN's publishing capacity to prepare for subse-
quent provision of low-cost, pedagogical materials and supplies. A core
functional package of about 430,000 books and teachers' guides would be
purchased, using competitive bidding and simplified production specifications
to reduce unit costs, thereby achieving an average ratio of one took per two
pupils in reading, mathematics and basic science. The books would be bought
and distributed by MEN to primary schools for loan to students. The local
parents' associations (APEs) would be encouraged to purchase supplements of
materials and books above and beyond the quantities and subject areas
provided in the core package. Storage facilities at the central, inspec-
torate and school levels would be improved and regulations instituted. In
addition, the project would reinforce MEN's capacity to develop -- with
writing, editing, and publishing skills -- evaluate, purchase and distribute
low-cost educational books by strengthening the textbook section at the
National Pedagogical Institute (INRAP).
3.7       The credit would finance:  (a) the renovation of central and
regional storage facilities; (b) furniture and equipment for INRAP; (c) 27
manmonths of specialist services and 50 manmonths of training abroad in book
development, adaptation, publishing, purchase and evaluation techniques;
(d) pedagogical materials, and teachers' guides for all of the tountry's
primary schools; and (e) selected incremental operating costs. Annex 3-3
provides details.
3.8       Rehabilitation of the primary school environment.  To stop the
deterioration of the school environment, maintain the value of existing



- 9 -
investments, and alleviate the strain on the Government budget, the project
would use low-cost designs and construction techniques relying largely on
local materials and labor to introduces (a) a phased reRional progreA of
classroom renovation and replacement; and (b) a primary school preventive
maintenance system. The program for about 880 classrooms would be limited to
three zones (Ouaka, Bangui and Mbomou) identified by Government, through
school mapping (see map) and would renovate about 520 classrooms, replace
about 240 temporary classrooms and construct about 120 classrooms. For new
classrooms, the construction techniques and use of local materials and labor
would reduce the average annual amortized cost/pupil place from US$25 to
US$10 (1987 prices), and the investment cost/pupil place from US$412 to
US$152 (1987 prices); 30Z of this cost would be transferred to local
communities.
3.9       The program would comprise as a first phase, a core package of
about 300 (Ouaka) and 150 (Bangui) classrooms; and as a second phase --
depending on the estimated community contributive capacity, the potential for
cost reduction and the replicability of the first phase -- the rehabilitation
of 160 (Bangui) and 270 (Mbomou) classrooms. Rehabilitation would be
organized by the regional school construction and equipment unit (URCESs
consisting of one international volunteer and one national expert) using
local communities and students' parent associations (APEs), under the
administrative supervision of the academic inspectorates and the technical
supervision of MEN's Directorate of School Construction and Equipment (DCES).
This directorate will be reorganized to include a facility planning unit
responsible for maintaining and managing existing infrastructure and planning
and promoting physical expansion through increased local government and
community participation. The APEs and/or communities would provide local
inputs (artisanal bricks or blocks of stabilized earth, unskilled labor,
sanitary facilities and fencing), the project would contract for the
complementary building elements, locally manufactured furniture, and
classroom supplies. The Government would finance housing for the school
director at the project schools.    Details are provided in Annex 3-4.
3.10      The credit would finance:  (a) civil works contracts for class-
rooms; (b) furniture and pedagogical materials for the same classrooms;
(c) 10 manmonths of fellowships for DCES personnel; (d) 20 days of observa-
tion visits; (e) specialist services (2 manmonths) to establish appropriate
standards for school construction and specialist services (3 manmonths) to
assist the DCES in monitoring program achievements; 72 manmonths of volun-
teers and 468 manmonths of national experts for the DCES and URCES; and
2 workshops for start-up activities and village sensibilization; (f) equip-
ment and vehicles; (g) volunteers and national experts housing; and (h) a
proportion of the incremental operating costs on a declining basis (excluding
teachers' salaries). At negotiations, the Government agreed that: (i) the
project classrooms would be located at existing schools, agreed with IDA, in
Ouaka, Bangui and Mbomou; and (ii) the content of the annual rehabilitation
program would be agreed upon at the joint annual review.
3.11      To correct the lack of maintenance, and the absence of user or
community participation in school upkeep, the project would test, within the
three project zones, a community based primary school preventive maintenance
system, to transfer the responsibility for regular maintenance and minor
repairs to local communities. Appropriate principles and operating



- 10 -
procedures would be developed, involving school-based communities, to be
financed and operated jointly by parents' associations (APEs), school and
local authorities. Preventive maintenance would be organized by a school
committee and URCES, while repairs of accidental damage would be discussed
with the URCES and regional authorities to plan possible government
contribution. Details are provided in Annex 3-4.
3.12      The credit would finance:  (a) two manmonths of specialist services
for training sessions; (b) study visits and ten manmonths of training for the
national experts; regional seminars for school directors, regional authori-
ties and school committees; and workshops for trainers; (c) the development
and printing of 3,000 maintenance guides; (d) the provision of 214 tool kits
for schools; and (e) building materials and craftsman services limited to
repairs of accidental damage for 80 classrooms over a four-year period.
During negotiations, the Govericment agreed that the school maintenance system
and guides will be reviewed with IDA and introduced not later than Septem-
ber 30, 1989, and that maintenance will be adequately supervised by the
academic inspectorates of Banguit Bambari and Bangassou.
3.13      Inspectorates.  In order to develop and strengthen the pedagogical
support, control and advisory functions nationwide, the project would
strengthen the inspectorates in three ways. First, in the project zones, it
would reinforce the decentralizatiou of MEN to its regional offices with
minor civil works, equipment and incremental operating expenses for the three
academic inspectorates at Bambari, Bangui Ville and Bangassou. Second, it
would provide in-service training for primary inspectors, to prepare them to
play their role under a more decentralized system and to upgrade their skills
ins (a) personnel, financial, and school management; (b) educational
administration and planning; (c) pedagogical support to teachers; and
(d) academic supervision. Third, the project would provide transportation
for the primary inspectorates to allow regular school inspection, including
monitoring of students repetition. Motorcycles and mobylettes would be
provided to each primary inspectorate, while small 4x4 vehicles would be
available for primary inspectors on demand from the academic inspectorate.
These improvements in school supervision, together with in-service training
of school directors (pars. 3.4) will promote a reorganization of the school
timetable, double-shift schooling, and better utilization of teachers, with a
view to reducing average class-size from 62 to 55 by 1993/94.
3.14      The credit would finance:  (a) minor civil works and related
furniture and equipment for three academic inspectorates; (b) 18 vehicles and
38 light motocycles; (c) six manmonths of local specialist services to
develop and deliver the training program; (d) local training; and
(e) selected related incremental operating costs on a declining basis.
Details are given in Annex 3-5.
3.15      University Library and Science Faculty.  To address the over-
crowding and scarcity of reading materials at the university library and to
improve the conditions for experimental work in scientific disciplines, the
project would support the physical extension of the library building for both
storage and reading and would repair and re-equip laboratories. An immediate
supply of 2,500 textbooks selected from common texts used at the last year of
secondary school and the first year of university studies would be provided.
Following completion of the library extension, an additional 5,000 books,



- 11 -
selected to support the development of scientific and technology studies, and
short courses, would be provided. Similarly, the science faculty building,
which contains laboratories for mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology and
geology, would undergo minor repairs and each subject area would receive a
stock of basic laboratory equipment together with the required consumables to
allow demonstration by the instructors and experimental work by the students.
Book and equipment lists have been prepared and criteria to guide the selec-
tion of relevant basic lavel texts and equipment have been agreed with the
iniversity authorities.
3.16      The credit would finances  (a) minor civil works and building
renovation; (b) furniture and laboratory equipment; (c) 7500 library books;
(d) 24 manmonths of overseas training in library management; and (e)
selected related incremental operating costs. Annex 3-6 provides details.
2.   Improved Sector Management for More Effective Use of Resources
3.17      To improve sector management for a more effective use of resources
in the Ministry of National Education (MEN) and higher education, the project
wouldt (a) strengthen MEN's capacity to plan, manage and control personnel
and financial and physical resources; (b) improve MEN's implementation
capacity; (c) support the development of the National Scholarship Service;
and (d) strengthen the planning capacity at the University of Bangui.
3.18      Personnel management.  The project would support the application to
MEN, of the on-going Public Administration Reform, with the twofold objective
of reducing the non-teaching wage element of educational costs and increasing
efficiency. This component is already underway with the completion in April
1987 of a staffing and organization plan for MEN and an indicative plan for
MESRES (as a guide to set up its organization chart and prepare its budget
request for 1988). Measures to control the growth of the wage element would
include: (a) a reduction of the proportion of non-teachers in MEN's staff,
from 112 to 72 over the project life through redeployment into the classroom
so as to decrease the number of students per teacher; (b) a gradual elimina-
tion of staff identified as redundant or unsatisfactory; and (c) strict
application of all existing personnel rules.
3.19      Measures to increase efficiency would includes  (a) a revision of
procedures to further decentralize non-policy decision-making power; (b) a
reduction of staff turnover to 102 p.a.; (c) creation of a management and
staff information system; and (d) strengthening of DAP and a revision of the
systet. of staff evaluation carried out by school inspectors to increase its
objectivity and allow closer monitoring of performance. On the incentives
side, a capacity would be created in DAP to identify the training needs of
staff, design and arrange for appropriate training programs (which would
later be taught with bilateral assistance at the Public Administration
Institute); in addition, the "concours professionell for teachers' promotion
would be reinstated in 1991. Personnel files would be reorganized and
computerized to produce, with the assistance of the data processing services,
statistics on educational personnel. Annex 3-7 gives details on this
component, and Annex 3-1 indicates how it will be monitored at the joint
annual review.



- 12 -
3.20      The credit would finance:  (a) furniture and equipment (including 2
micro-computers) and office supplies for DAP; (b) six manmonths of specialist
services in personnel management, training program design and computer use
and a total of 27 manmonths of training abroad and six manmonths oi local
training in the same disciplines; and (c) selected incremental operating
costs for the new personnel management system.
3.21      Resource Planning and Management.  First, the financial and budget-
ary procedures of the Gen-ral Directorate of Administration and Finance
(DGAF) would be reinforced through: (a) computerization of budgeting,
expenditure and cost control systems to allow regular monitoring of the
budget and the use of funds; and (b) improved procurement, purchasing and
contract management procedures, to reduce costs through larger purchases and
simpler specifications. Second, to build up MEN's capacity to manage
existing infrastructure through increased regional and community resources
and responsibility, the DGAF (jointly with the decentralized DCES) would
maintain a computerized inventory of existing facilities and prepare the
rolling triennial plan for school construction, rehabilitation and mainten-
ance (para. 3.6). Third, to coordinate the collection, processing and
analysis of statistical, financial and personnel information for the educa-
tion sector, the data processing unit, created in May 1987 with assistance
from the Second Technical Assistance project (IDA Cr. 1581-CA), would be
strengthened and a development plan for the gradual computerization of the
MEN would be prepared.
3.22      The credit would finance:  (a) renovation of existing offices;
(b) furniture and equipment of facilities for the DGAF and the data proces-
sing unit; (c) eight manmonths of specialist services to set up the budgetary
procedures, management information and statistics processing system, and
standardize bidding documents; (d) 10 manmonths of fellowships for manage-
ment, procurement procedures and statistics collection and processing;
(e) local training in education statistics; and (f) incremental operating
costs (excluding local salaries). Annex 3-8 details this component.
3.23      Proiect Coordination Unit.  To ensure an efficient, well coordin-
ated implementation of project activities, the Directorate of Projects and
External Relations (DPER) would be rationalized, while a small Project
Coordinating Unit staffed with nationals and attached to MEN's Secretary
General, would have responsibility for all project coordination. This unit
would reinforce the implementation capacity of MEN and would be headed by a
full-time project director, with responsibility for supervision and
coordination of project activities; it would support all directorates in the
area of procurement, financial administration, documentation, monitoring and
reporting. "he director would be assisted by a full-time deputy (TA), an
administrator, and an accountant. To ensure adequate standards with account-
ing, auditing and reporting, the project would provide the necessary consult-
ing services to assist the project management team establish accounting,
monitoring and reporting systems.
3.24      The credit would finance:  (a) the renovation of the facilities
where the unit would be located; (b) offlce furniture and equipment; (c) 88
manmonths of technical assistance in project management, procurement, ac-
counting, auditing and future project preparation; (d) training abroad in
project management; and (e) selected incremental operating costs on a



- 13 -
declining basis. At negotiations, thie Government discussed and agreed with
IDA, the organizational structure, responsibilities and functions of the
project coordination unit and confirmed that procedures for the appointment
of the Project Director and the recruitment of the project management staff
had been initiated. Annex 3-9 details this component.
3.25      National Scholarship Senrice.  The development and reinforcement of
the recently created National Scholarship Service will be supported to allow
it to: first, complete the review of the scholarship rolls started in early
1987; second, revise and prepare coherent and rationalized administrative
texts governing the award and continuation of scholarships; third, traverse
the transitional period between the existing system of scholarship award and
the new system to be based on a quota allocation by subject area; and
finally, undertake key studies to guide the future development of the
scholarship system (ensuring that it reflects the budgetary situation of the
country, responds to the labor market situation (para 2.4) and proposes
criteria to ensure equitable allocation). The scholarship quota system will
contain elements designed to redress the balance between: (a) humanities and
science based subjects; (b) post-graduate and undergraduate level studies;
and (c) studies abroad or inside the CAR; and will propose criteria to assist
disadvantaged groups in higher education inscitutions (women and poor rural
families).
3.26      The project will finance: (a) minor building repairs; (b) office
equipment and furniture; (c) 16 manmonths of local training; (d) 6 manmonths
of specialist services to undertake a study on the education/labor market
relationship; (e) 9 manmonths of foreign and 77 manmonths of local specialist
services in microcomputing and systems analysis to develop the revised quota
system and assist in studies to elaborate quota criteria; and (f) selected
incremental operating costs. Annex 3-6 details this component.
3.27      University Planning Unit.  The university has a small planning unit
to assist in the development and planning of its activities in future years.
The priority task for the planning unit is, on the basis of provisional
estimates of higher level manpower needs of the economy in both quantitative
and qualitative terms, to identify new training fields needing to be
developed, either by adaptation of existing courses, or by the creation of
flexible and rapidly modifiable courses. Given the small size of the CAR
labor market at higher manpower levels, innovative solutions such as
temporary training during a limited number of years, cooperation with
neighboring countries, in-service and sandwich training courses will need to
be examined. The planning unit will cooperate with: (a) the office of
Academic Affairs of the Rectorate, which holds data on student admissions,
progressions and examination results; (b) the National Scholarship Service,
responsible for the operation of the quota system and the award of
scholarships; and (c) the Civil Service Ministry.
3.28      The credit will finances  (a) a micro-computer and related office
equipment; (b) 13 manmonths of local consultants together with regional study
visits; and (c) selected related incremental operating expenditures. Annex
3-6 provides details.



- 14 -
B.   Proiect Cost and Financing
3.29      The total project cost over the six years of implementation is
estimated at US$20.7 million equivalent (net of taxes and duties) with a
foreign exchange component of US$11.9 million or 57%. Base cost estimates
are at March 1987 prices. The project would be financed by IDA (US$18.0
million equivalent or 87% of total cost), the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP) (US$0.1 million equivalent or 12), parental contributions from
the APEs (US$1.2 million equivalent or 6%), and budgetary allocations from
the Government (US$1.3 million or 62). The UNDP would finance volunteer
specialist services for the URCES. The APEs would finance, either in kind
(labor and local building materials) or through cash contributions, the
completion of the classroom structure with locally made blocks. The Govern-
ment would finance a proportion (302) of the incremental operating costs and
the totality of the primary school directors' housing. The major assumptions
in arriving at the cost estimates, as well as the detailed project costs by
component, by cost category and by source of finance are given in Annex 3-10.
3.30      Recurrent cost implications.  Contrary to many social investments,
this project is aimed at improving the overall operation of the education
system with all additional operating expenditures being more than compensated
by saving measures also included in the project. The recurrent coats
generated by the project would be relatively modest in the early years of
implementation but would grow rapidly in the latter years. These would
attain an estimated maximum of CFAF 956 million (constant 1987 prices) after
project completion in 1995, equivalent to 102 of the FY87 education budget.
By that year, the 117 additional classrooms included in the project would be
in full use and pedagogical materials and other qualitative inputs also
provided under the project would require replacement. Of these costs, 661
would constitute the salaries of teachers needed to operate new classes in
the added classrooms, reduce class-size and compensate teachers in the
"concours professionnel' (these incremental salaries have been estimated to
increase from CFAF 78 million in FY89 to CFAF 320 million in FY92 and CFAF
631 million in FY95). The rest of the costs would include the completion of
the in-service teacher training program, the coordination of the inspectorate
services and preventive building maintenance. During project implementation,
the credit would finance on a declining basis (starting at 90Z and gradually
decreasing to 50%) selected incremental recurrent costs generated by the
project, other than the above mentioned teacher salaries. These expenditures
averaging about CFAF 70 million per year during project implementation, would
consist mainly of fuel and vehicle maintenance costs, with limited office
equipment maintenance, consumables and communication costs. The sector
saving resulting from measures included in the project (the review of
scholarship lists, reduction of scholarship expenditures, staff redeployment
and rationalization, reduced rehabilitation and building maintenance costs,
ani improved financial management) are likely to exceed project operating
cost during implementation, and subsequent recurrent cost that the project
would generate in any fiscal year. Reductions in student repetition would
not directly affect the recurrent costs but would reduce the unit costs per
graduate. In 1995, the savings resulting from the project are likely to be
at least 2.2 times the incremental recurrent costs generated and the revised
internal budgetary structure for the education sector, included in the Action
Plan, would have increased material and operating allocations (books and
vehicle operating costs) in real terms by 1452 allowing the Government budget



- I5 -
to assume the responsibility of the recurrent cost of project activities
(Annexes 3-11 and 3-16).
C.   Project Implementation
1.   Preparation. Management and Institution Building
3.31      Status of preparation.  Implementation plans and schedules have
been prepared for each component and are given in the Annexes. Designs for
the civil works have been developed; the primary school building prototype
has been completed and was reviewed at neLotiations. Suitable existing sites
have been identified for all construction activities and the survey for
school rehabilitation and construction has been completed. Furniture and
equipment lists have been reviewed by IDA and found acceptable. A full-time
National Project Director has been appointed and the recruitment of key
technical assistance staff, including the Deputy Project Director, has been
initiated. Prior to negotiations the Government discussed with IDA the
revised administrative texts detailing changes in MEN (School Construction,
External Relations and Projects Directorates). The basic principles of the
Action Plan were agreed upon during appraisal and at negotiationst the
Government gave the assurances listed in para. 3.1.
3.32      Implementation responsibility and schedule.  Implementation details
of each component are given in Annex 3-1 through Annex 3-9 with a sumary
implementation schedule in Annex 3-12. Implementation responsibility for
each component rests with the relevant Ministry Directorate. Coordination of
all components would be entrusted to the Project Coordination Unit# which
would support the directorates in the areas of procurement, financial admin-
istration, documentation, monitoring, reporting and preparation of the annual
review, and act as a liaison with IDA for all technical matters. All project
components have been phased both over time and geographically by staggering
the actions envisaged. Given the absorptive capacity limits, the innovative
nature of some of the project elements, and the regional profile for the
sector, the implementation period has been cautiously planned over a six-year
period, with a disbursement lag of six months, plus six months for the
closing of the accounts. Assurances were received that the project would be
Implemented along the arrangements and schedules agreed upon during
preparation.
3.33      Specialist services and training.  The project would provide a
total of 141 years of specialist services (78% local staff) and a total of
55 years of training (97% locally). Terms of reference were agreed during
preparation, and the recruitment of key technical assistance staff has been
initiated; the signature of these contracts would be a condition of the
credit effectiveness. For training abroad funded by the credit, assurances
were given during negotiations, that: (a) such training would be supported
on the basis of mutually agreed selection criteria for programs and
candidates; and (b) recipients of long-term training abroad would remain in
their assignments for at least three years following the completion of their
programs. Annexes 3-13 and Annex 3-14 give details.



- 16 -
2.   Procurement, Disbursements and Special Account
3.34      Procurement. Importeu equipment, major civil works contracts and
goods, including the printing of textbooks (totaling US$6.72 million equiva-
lent) representing about 57% of the total value of civil works and goods,
would be procured through international corlpetitive bidding (ICB) it, accord-
ance with IDA's guidelines and grouped, te' the extent practicable to facili-
tate competition in bidding, into bid packages of at least US$250,000 equi-
valent. Where ICB pro.edures are used a preference of 7.5% of the total bid
price for domestic contractors, and 15X or the applicable customs duty
whichever is the less, for domestic manufacturers, would be giver in accord-
ance with IDA guidelines. Other contracts which are snall In size or involve
widely dispersed sites, not likely to attract foreign bidders, would be
awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB) or local shoppings Procure-
ment through LCB, in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA, would be
applied to bid packages valued at between US$20,000 and US$250,000 equivalent
and would comprise civil works contracts and goods (totaling US$2.65 million
equivalent). Procurement through local shoppina, in accordance with local
procedures would be applied to small contracts for civil works and goods
valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent (totaling US$190,000 equivalent).
Local construction materials and unskilled labor services (totaling
US$2.15 million equivalent) represent community and Government inputs not
financed by IDA. Specialist services would be procured in accordance with
IDA's guidelines on the use of consultants. (These, together with overseas
training, are estimated to cost US$5.0 million equivalent). Bidding packages
(announcements, bid documents and proposed contract awArds) estimated at more
than US$250,000 equivalent, representing about 57% of the total value of IDA-
financed contracts, would be subject to IDA's prior review. Accordingly, the
remaining 43% of contracts, would be subject to: (i) post review (for
contracts estimated at between US$20,000 and US$250,000 equivalent); or
(ii) random review (for contracts estimated at less than US$20,000 equiva-
lent). During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will
apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined above. Procure-
ment arrangements are summarized in the table following and detailed in
Annex 3-15.



- 17 -
Amounts and Mothods of Pcocuroemnt
Including Contingpncies
(US8 million)
Tot I
No..         Category of Exg2ndituro          ICe           LCB        Othor       N/A        Cost
1.     Civil Worke
a. General contracts                    0.60        0.53       9.06         -         1.08
(0.60)     (0.58)      (6.05)       -)        (1.098)
b. School construction contracts        8.48         -           -          -         8.46
(8.40)       (^)        (-)        (-)        (8.48)
c. Comaunity Input (APEs,  id            -           -           -         2.16       2.15
toachors' housing (Govt.)            (-)         (-)         (-)       (-)          t_)
2.     Furnlturo                                -          1.65        0.06                   1.62
(-)       (1.68)      (9.96)      (-)        (1.62)
8.     Egutpmi nt
a. Vehicles                             .0           . 002      0.08        -         0.70
(0.60)      (0.92)     (9.8)       (-)        (0.79)
b. Computers                            0.21         -           -          -         0.21
(6.21)      (           ()()                  (0.21)
c. Coneral equipeont                     -          0.64         -          -         9.54
,_)       (9.64)        (-)       t-)        (0.54)
4.     Pedagogical Materials
a. Textbooks                            1.6          -           -          -          1.8B
O1.")       (-(-(-                               .)
b. Podagogical  ateorials               0.27         -           -          -         0.27
(0.27)      (-)         (-)        (-)        (0.27)
S.     Consultants' Serviees
a. International specialists             -           -          .24         -          3.24
(-)        (-)       (8.24)       (-)        (8.24)
b. Nat-lonal Speclalists                 -           -           -       0.91         0.91
f-)   (-)        (-)~~ (0.91)          tO 91)
c. Volunteers (UNV 88-90)                -           -          0.25b       -         0.26
t-)   (-)       tO~(. 10)    t-0t. 10
6.     Training
a. Training abroad                       -           -           6.59       -         9.69
t-)        t-)       t(0.69)      (0) (9.59)
b. Local training                        -           -          2.59        -         2.69
t-)        t-..)     t(2.69)                 (2.69)
7.     Operating Costs                          -           -           -         1.44        1.44
-)*        ()         J-).       (1.02)      (1.02)
Total Costs                             6.72        2.66        6.88       4.60      20.78
Total Financed by IDA                  (8.72)      (2.68)      (6.71)    (1.93)    (18.91)
====  _~               ==           =
Note:  Figures In parenthosso show tho rospective amounts financed by tho IDA crodit.
Figures may not add up to total due to rounding.
o Of which US80.16 million financed by UNDP.



- 18 -
3.35      Disbursement.  The IDA credit would be disbursed over a period of
seven years on the basis of the categories shown in the table below:
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
(US$ millions)
Proposed IDA           % of Expenditure
Category of Expenditure             Allocation             Financed by IDA
1.  Civil works contracts                   4.11                    100
2.  Furniture                               1.47                    100
3.  Equipment                               1.27                    100
4.  Pedagogical materials                   1.66                    100
5.  Consultants' services 1/                3.90                    100
6.  Training                                3.11                    100
7.  Operating Costs                         0.96           90% up to December 31,
1989; 70% up to
December 31, 1991;
and 502 thereafter
8.  Unallocated                             1.53
Total                           18.01
1/   International and national specialists except contracts of volunteers
for the first three years of implementation
The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994. Annex 3-16
summarizes Government and Parents' Associations contributions to the project,
and Annex 3-17 gives the disbursement profile.
3.36      Spec(al Account.  To facilitate disbursements, US$400,000 equiva-
lent, denominated in CFAF, would be advanced from the IDA credit and
deposited in a Special Account held in a local commercial bank and operated
jointly by at least two of the following: the Project Director, the Deputy
Director and Secretary-General. The amount is estimated to cover about three
months' expenses for all project expenditures. Replenishment applications to
IDA would be aggregated into packages of at least US$100,000 equivalent and
be fully documented. Expenses related to contracts and/or expenditures
valued at less than US$20,000 equlvalent would be reimbursed against
certified statements of expenditu:es (SOEs), for which documentation would be
retained at the Project Unit for review by IDA supervision missions and for
regular semi-annual audits. Reimbursement applications would also include a
statement of account movements since the last application, with the balance
certified by the bank holding the account, and a reconciliation sh'wing that
the balance represents the original amount less payments awaiting
reimbursement or small working advances. The commercial bank holding the
Special Account would also provide additional services in the form of
expenses classification services. Should any disbursements made subsequently
be disallowed by IDA, the Government would redeposit the corresponding amount
tc the Special Account. Given the availability of the Special Account, the
minimum application for direct payments would normally be for the equivalent
of US$20,000.



- 19 -
3.   Accounting. Auditing and Reporting
3.37      The Project Director would maintain separate accounts for the IDA
credit and Government counterpart financing. These Accounts would be further
subdivided into expenditures incurred for each component. At negotiations,
the Government gave assurances that: (a) all project accounts will be
audited annually and all disbursements against SOEs will be audited semi-
annually by an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA; (b) the Government
will submit to IDA the audit reports by December 31 of each year and the
audit reports on SOEs by June 30 and December 31 of each year beginning in
1988; (c) the audit reports will certify that the funds were used for the
purposes for which they were provided; and (d) the Project Unit will submit:
(i) semi-annual reports to IDA on project implementation and expenditures by
June 30 and December 31 of each year beginning in 1988; (ii) a summary report
of the Action Plan each year in September; (iii) special reports on a need
basis; and (iv) a completion report within six months of the IDA credit
closing date.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1       Benefits.  The first benefit of the project has already been
achieved; its preparation was the occasion of a positive dialogue with the
Government, a detailed diagnosis of the education sector, followed by the
elaboration of a strategy of rehabilitation, which is pragmatic, coherent and
adapted to the country's need. The second benefit is educative; the project
will promote improved quality of inputs, input mix and resource management,
resulting in more efficient operation, reduced costs/graduate, and increased
pupil achievement. At the primary level, it is expected that for an increase
in costs per student of 152, these improvements would translate into a reduc-
tion of the dropout and repeater rates by as much as 30X, and a 402 decline
in the costs per graduate. The third benefit is both educative and economic;
the project will place a brake on post-secondary education and ensure a
closer qualitative and quantitative match between the output of the educa-
tion/training system and the needs of the economy. The fourth benefit is
economic and institutional; a more efficient allocation of resources, com-
bined with better management, will reinforce, at the sector level, the
Government's structural adjustment program.
4.2       Risks.  The project has two main risks.  First, the CAR has no
experience of complex sectoral project in the field of education. To ensure
that the sector budgetary targets set out in the Action Plan are acted upon,
the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning, would participate in the
annual review process. In addition, implementation problems arising from the
complexity of the project are addressed by staggering the actions envisaged
for both institutional developr-ent and the physical rehabilitation of
schools. Second, at present the CAR education sector suffers from weak
financial management, planning and budgeting, and ongoing projects encounter
delays in the provision of counterpart funds. The project has been designed
to alleviate this situation with a carefully planned approach of Government
to sector rehabilitation; by the increased participation of local communities
witb labor and local imputs; by short-term consultancy services in financial
management; and by the training program for the national team in project
management.



- 20 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1       Prior to negotiations the Government: (a) discussed and agreed with
IDA on the organizational structure, responsibilities and functions of the
Project Coordinating Unit, and the revised administrative texts reorganizing
MEN (DCES, DPRE, and DEPP) (para. 3.24 and 3.31); (b) proposed satisfactory
candidates for the full-time Project Director (para. 3.31); (c) discussed
with IDA a review of the experience with the classroom prototypes and the
construction methodology in rural and urban areas (para. 3.31); and (d)
submitted to IDA a short-list of consultants for technical assistance
contracts, and an agreement in principle from the volunteer organizations to
participate in the rehabilitation program (para. 3.33 and 3.8).
5.2       During negotiations the Government and IDA discussed and agreed on
the general composition of a three-year rolling Action Plan, which would be
examined at a joint annual review, and which contains annual interim targets
aimed during the life of the project (1988-1994), at: (i) monitoring the
proportion of the Government recurrent budget allocated to the education
sector; (ii) reducing Government expenditure on scholarships from 16% to 8%
of the education sector budget, and focusing it on agreed-upon key
scientific, technological and managerial fields; (iii) raising expenditures
on primary education from 52% to at least 60%, and on miaterials from 2% to at
least 8% of the education recurrent budget; and (iv) reducing the proportion
of non-teachers in total education staff from 11 to 7X through staff
redeployment by June 30, 1993; and (v) following-up the implementation of
regulations on repeaters (paras. 3.1 and 3.31).
5.3       During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will:
(a) incorporate, in the annual budget law, the sector budgetary targets
agreed with IDA during the annual joint review and monitor their
implementation and relationship to the overall public investment
and expenditure programs under the SAL (para. 3.31);
(b) during the joint annual review, discuss and agree with IDA, on the
annual in-service training plan; the annual classroom
rehabilitation program; the personnel program and primary education
enrollment and class-size targets (paras. 3.5, 3.10, and 3.18);
(c) by the 1989 review, discuss with IDA the school maintenance
procedures and guidelines, and introduce them following approval
(not later than September 30, 1989) and thereafter cause the
primary inspectorates to provide adequate regular support and
supervision (para. 3.12);
(d) award all project training, funded by the credit, according to the
agreed criteria and procedures, and ensure that the beneficiaries
work for the sector for three years thereafter (para. 3.33); and
(e) implement the project along the arrangements and schedules agreed
upon during preparation, including the procurement procedures, and
the arrangements for accounting, auditing, and reporting as agreed
(paras. 3.32, 3.34 and 3.37).



- 21 -
5.4       As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would have major
technical assistance and consultant contracts signed (the managing consultant
for textbooks, regional coordinators -- volunteers -- for classroom
rehabilitation, the Deputy Director and the short-term procurement specialist
for the PCU (para. 3.33)
5.5       Continued disbursement of the credit would be conditional upon
agreement each year between the Government and IDA on the contents of the
Action Plan and satisfactory completion of the joint annual review of
progress made in implementing this action plan (para. 3.1).



- 22 -
ANNEX 1-1
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BASIC DATA
General
GNP per capita                  US$260 a/
Land Area                       623,000 km2
Population                      2.6 (1986)
of which urban                 45Z
Population density              4 per km2
Population growth rate          2.3Z
Crude birth rate                42.2 per thousand
Crude death rate                16.5 per thousand
Infant mortality rate           138.0 per thousand
Life expectancy at birth        48.6
Pupil/
School          Gross     X in               Teacher
Enrollment    Enrollment  Private        Z      Ratio
(1984-1985)    Ratio (Z)  Schools  Female    1983
Primary Education         308,000            79       N.A.        36        69
General Secondary
Education                  57,100     )                 8        25    )
Technical Secondary                     )    18                          )  58
Education                   2,100     )              N.A.        49    )
Teacher Training               615         N.A.       N.A.      N.A.      N.A.
Higher Education             2,500      )             N.A.        15         6
(excluding students                    )   1.4
abroad)                       700      )                       N.A.      N.A.
a/   Unless otherwise indicated, all data are the most recent estimates,
i.e., referring to any year between 1982 and 1985.



- 23 -
ANNEX 1-1
Page 2 of 2
Education Expenditures
Ministry of Education's budget (FY86) as X of total Government
recurrent budget: 24.7Z
Distribution of public recurrent expenditures by level of
education (FY86!):
Primary Education                                49.12
General and Technical Secondary Education        15.9X
Vocational Education                              0.2Z
Higher Education (including teacher
training and study abroad)                      24.1Z
Central Administration and other
non-specified                                   10.7Z
100.0z
Public Recurrent Expenditures per Student (FY85)
Expenditures
as % of
CFAF             US$            GNP/Capita
(US$1 - CFAF 314)
Primary education 1/               15,000            48                  18
Secondary general education        31,000            99                  38
Secondary technical education    98,000             312                 120
Higher education                  450,000         1,433                 551
l/ FY86.



- 24 -                                              ANNEX 2-1
STRUCTURE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT (1987)
¶
ENSEIGNEMENT TECO-NIQUE                                                    3   4
C E r   I ECOLES PROFESSIONNELLES
C E TECHNIQUE FEMNIN
LYCEE tECHNIQUE
ENSEIGNEMENT GENERAL ET FORMATION DES
ENNSSEIT 1NRANCtS
MEOLE NORMBAE D'ANSCUTEUR
CCE G                             ECOL:E NORMALE SUPERIEURE
148  9    10  2
.CE A ECO DAMAIRES                LYCEES                L.CEE          UNIVERSITE       TMEDSCAUXE
.ARDENS T'ENFANTS                                                                       FOREATE TENDE PARACI4NCAtJX
ENSEiGNFMENT AGoLERICOLE
UNV.T BETET CEAAl  AGRICOLE
7OLLEGEC TECHNUE AGREN AELEVAGE
ANNEE SCOLADRE
1   2    3   4    S   6               8       9   10      11  42  13       14
,i   I       1   a   I   1   A   1             I   i       I   i        i   i   I  I    II                      I      ;-D      I
4    6      6         8   9   10  11         12-13 13'1S      15$17  16148 17-1918-20   49+
1. CERTFICATE D'APTITUDE D'AQllSAN CAP                                       S. DIPLOME uNrvEWRkTl  DES ETUDES sciENnFiQuEs
2. BREVET G ENSEINEMENT TECHNlOUE SoE                                        9. LICENC
2. CERTIFirATE D'APTIUDE PROEs LLE CAP                                      IO. BREVET DE TECHaEN ACZ LE ESTA
4. BREVET PROFES90NNEL D'ENSEri;NMENT TECHNXDUE BP        1        1        I. BREVET DE TECNCEN SUJPERIEUR AGRCOLE BTSA
6. BESEE DE TECHNICiEN BT                                                   12. MAMTRIE
U. CERTIFtCAT D'APT1TUDE PEDAGOGIOUE A LfENSI¢NENT FONIDAMENTAL CAPEF       13. BREVET DE TECKNICIEN SUPERIEUR DE SANTE
7. CER4FICAT D'APFtuDE PEDAGOG1IQUE A LNSINEMENM SECONDAIRE CAPES           14. DOCEUR D'ETAt EN MEDECWE
EXAMEN D'ENEE                                      B REVET D'ENSEIGNEWMCN SCNAIRE PREMIER
EXAMEN DE SORTIE                                   CYCLE (BEPC)
EXAMEN DE FIN D'ETUDES PFMAIRES (CEPE)          0  aACCALAUREAT (ACC)
World Bank-34216 I
C0



ANNEX 2-2
ORGANIGRAMME DU MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION NATIONALE                                                  Page 1 of 2
|C"W sI  up6teur de I Edchxrol    W                                              .   .  _                                                             nspmcfon G*ne,role  
I}I CDtol  'rOkae PerCrAeTt                                                                                                                            s .  ecDqr at s  Gt|
Rect0tat de lo Rl§1arne  _m  t. a d                    .                               C    r                                           de      monPoPo NeAlfe,
Swo6oe doe Ra4oIons EXtieKwes                  Extbrtes                                                                         et N.otessionref
Unft de CNordIiPorlon
S ee  de lXN et de _o SCcotdon                                                          AdBnou s_totKiv
9;~~~~~~~~~~0tco ONe ltl _d._
Ses Eso des meTs dIst SooksswCie to rohioh                                                                                     Decto Pnnerlbco
et de al,t                                                                                              ae dooe
t Sor d85 Etal rIt doans eb                                                               C s          et du totIor
-.                                                                   2 X  1  .  l 
D|c" DarYaede  D<aecsnn  Dol*eirecd tPLl                                                                                           wctnee   b
I       ;s Ersig-I I                                                     I o de                      I                  Idu Fmdt    I
r                                                     s                                    --
PrOscolote| SOOKdes                     et de 10 Fof|fi                 Om             diqes  |                  |hnW   de soAdndnistroetodes
et orJorontc I C'r-rotet    tsteau        de Faot n-xf           Exnin et C41r                etd  esne                 etans FhctOrie        Fqienet ScIae
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
OW     8 '   I31                               
1.             1           ffi          I                        I                          I                         I                        j                          tn~~~~~~S
r Nwecfion Ir Ir Dlrectbn 1l 1 ~1 r--- ' 1l ' 1l '   
|   des   _ h  |     de5    nnb    |  de bltechce P*dlo I I alectn         l  l          4cthn          t   Dlec bn u lfioel   |      de5 on5truthns 
|  P4obtr   l      Secr   ||   etelo  arron    |I             Ce5          i}   del'Anunnn    @|   deoCos                       l          et es 
|   e h nd       ||   G    dTesue|       de fne       X    Eonfen etCa          11    e ds tsone           l        e dut§b         ||   <tlpes colirs 
I  ,                        .                                                 .  .                      *  .  I               I  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~
World 8cok-34245 3



%mo Etude et                     I
Plantcooon             _                       III
to 12~~~~~
rSerm  Suiv &       --, 
Evahdihon. 7
b~~~~~~~
RessourosFncres Hums 
Ssrvbes C    n          _ 6   [                                                     S
Rech. Sclnt & techn5
Do cum e n t llon       
__ _, _                                                                         S
Sotvice Soolor#tb 8 &11                   
Exc4                       §t                                 I  
Sewlce Mtoire&              t|§                
Acoowiqesk                                                                          La  ll l
SsNb  de zsl             -|}g l]      
Reouclt UnWstre|II 
ISoclo Cuffurel             J       IW
| ewv e cmEQ la J9     H      Hfi  
|Serv"c de   emwo                        n       r  
FLcu t  |W I X ,!
Fo>Ulb dw Loffres
FautdN Sdecium
|,kruS Scbner  de lo SanW  *  
| Eco*Normale SuM§rleure                                                                                                        N
I1 U.S.E . 
Uj ~~~~~~~~50I
I | S.DR                      p      -g
_ 9z  _



- 27 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 1 of 8
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATISTICAL PROFILE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
This Annex provides the following statistical information on the
development of education in C.A.R:
Part I: Overview of the Education Sector
Table 1 - Enrollment and Enrollment Ratios by Level of Education and
by Sex
Table  2 - Key Pedagogic Parameters by Level of Education
Part II:  The Primary Education Sub-sector
Table  3 - Urban/Rural Breakdown of Primary Schooling
Table  4 - Primary School Regimes, by Location
Table  5 - Internal Efficiency in Primary Education
Table  6 - Primary School Teachers by Qualifications
Part Ills  Educational Finance
Table  7 - Evolution of the Ministry of Education's Investment and
Recurrent Budget, 1981-1987
Table  8 - Externally Funded Education Investments, 1983-1990
Table  9 - Public Recurrent Expenditures on Education by Level and
Purpose, 1985-1987
Table 10 - Total and Unit Costs by Level of Education (FY85)
Table 11 - Unit Cost Expenditures as a Percentage of GNP/Capita
Table 12 - Unit Costs Per Graduate (FY85)
Table 13 - Scholarships in Higher Education 1984-1987



- 28 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 2 of 8
PART I: OVERVIEW OF THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Tablo I - Enrollment and Enrolimont Ratio. by Level of Education 9/
Groas
Enrollment Ratios (f)          Primary              Secondary            Higher      b/
School     Prim   Sec    Higher                     X                    X                    U
Year      Educ   Educ    Educ        Enroll    Female    Enroll    Femalo    Enroll    Female
(1)    (2)     (3)         (4)        (S)        (6)       (7)        (a)       (9)
190/81     76       -       -       246,174       36      43,021       26        1,466      11
1981/82     76       -       -       259,626       36      60,192        -        1,808      10
1982/83     77      16     1.2       271,117       86      63,296        -       2,133        8
1988/84     78       -       -       291,444      88       54,612        -       2,369        -
1984/86     79      18     1.4       808,022      a8       68,301       26       2,622       15
1985/80     78      18     1.4       309,692      89       69,166       26       2,628        -
a/   Including enrollments in private schools, which are negligible at the primary level, but
are estimated at 8X at the secondary level.
b/   University of Bangui only.  Total number, Including students abroad, for 1986/86 is
3,274.
Source:   Enrollment data supplied by the Ministry of Education.  Enrollment ratios are
gross, i.e. calculated as ratio of total enrollments to the age specific population
(o.g., 7-12 for primary, etc.). They are based on population estimates prepared by
the World Bank, which are substantially lower than the Governments estimates. The
resulting primary school enrollment ratios, shown in Column 1, are about eight
porcentago points higher than the Ministry of Education's ratios, which were used
In previous Bank documents.
Table 2 - Key Pedagonlc Parameters, by Level of Education
Primary                     Secondary
Length of cycle (years)                                       6                         7
Number of schools (1986/8)                                 960                        39
Number of teachers (1986/86)                              4,718                       980
% Female toachers                                            2S                        11
% Private sector enrollments                                  6                         8
Pupil/teacher ratio (1986/88)                               e6                         61
Average class size (1986/86) */                              82                        56
Average number of pupils/book                             10-20                      6-10
Number days/school year (1986/87)                           206                       2"
Number hours/school week (1988/87)                           20 b/                     24
Number pupil-years/graduates (1984/86)                       24                        62 (cumul)
% of repeaters (1983/84)                                    a8                         26
% of cohort completing cycle (1984/85)                       21                        10
a/   Some double shift schooling at both primary and oscondary schools.
b/   Practical activities an additional 4 hours.
Source: Mini;try of Education and miaslon estimatos.



- 29 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 3 of 8
PART II: THE PRIMARY EDUCATION SUB-SECTOR
Table 3 - Urban/Rural Breakdown of Primary Schooling - School Year 1986-06
Urban Areas
Rural Arose              (Bangui)               Total/Average
Enrollments                        224,784                  84,928                   309,892
Numbor of cleosroomo                 3,241                     688                     4,107
Number of schools                      891                      69                       980
Pupil/teacher ratio                     89                      58                        85
Average class size                      89                      49*                       82
Averago school size                    250                   1,230                       32i
* Double shift classes
Source:  Ministry of Education ard mission estimates.
Table 4 - Primary School Regimes, by Location. 1986
Urban Areas
Rural Areas             (Bangui)            Total            X
Complete 8-year cyclo               548                    89                 617             84
Multigrade                          852                     -                 862             es
Double-shift                        278                     82                340             36
Total                            691                    89                 980            100
Source:  Ministry of Education and mission estimates.
Table 6 - Internal Efficiency in Primary Education
Grades                 C1            CP           CE1            CE2          CU1           CM2
-------------____________ (Percentages)   ---------
1978/79
Repeat Rate           33            31           31             29           28            46
Dropout Rate          13            11           18              9            4            45
1980/81
Repeat Rate           33            32           38             32           34            48
Dropout Rate          14            10           1s              9            4            28
1982/83
Repeat Rate           34            33           36             33           32            46
Dropout Rate          NA            NA           NA             NA           NA            NA
19S4/85
Repeat Rate )
Dropout Rate) Total   41            34           44             37           48
Source: Ministry of Education



- 30 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 4 of 8
Table 6 - Primary School Toachere by Qualification I/
Inotltuteure       Agents Sup                             Total
School   Inatitutour.       Adlointo           + AgentO       Other 2/                  Fmolo
Year       No.     X       No.       x       No.      %      No.    X         No.            _
1974/76    438     14       970      81     1,658    65       62     2         3,128       -
1978/79    U81     21     1,401      as     1,667     40     117     3         8,898       -
1981/82    868     20     1,458      84      N.A.            N.A.              4,261       -
1984/86    907     20     1,496      32     1,281     27     960    20         4,014      21
185/88   s88      19     1,802      38     1,472     81     658    12         4,718      26
g/  Excluding the private sector.
2/ For 1984/86 date excludo non-teaching staff for the institutours, institutours-adjoints
and agent. categories. The "othera category includes 76 Ocontractu.le stagiaires,
I.e. young graduatoe awaiting forml recruitment Into the civil service.
Source:  1974-86 a Ministry of Education; 1986-86 a mission estimates.



- 31 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 5 of 8
PART III: EDUCATIONAL FINANCE
Tablo 7 - Evolution of MEN's Budget
(million current CFAF)
1981     1982     1988    19"4      19C6    1986     1907
Recurrent Budget I/
Govornment total                   30,329   82,932  38,492  883,66   84,90    6,985,8    80,900
% MEN (including
scholarships)                      24.4    24.1     2S.4      24.7     265.    24.7      24.1
hence:
MEN's recurrent budget              7,891    7,927    0,602   6,391    6,702   8,088       ,0982
brokon down into:
- Primary                          4,086    6,018    4,911   4,812    4,588   4,346    4,691
- Secondary                          00       677      680    741    1,528   1,460    1,422
- Higher                           1,080    1,957    1,856  1,771    1,083   2,138    2,078
- Central                            411      344      459      441      888 8l   s        894
- Other                              101       81      061      490      a87    656        402
Investment Budget Provisions 2/
Government Total                                                        8,060   8,99      8,800
% MEN                                NA       NA       NA       NA        8.3     9.8       5.2
hence:
MEN's Investment budget                                                   191     289      1i0
broken down into:
Primary                                                                 69      go        70
= Secondary and Technical                                                122     159      102
= Higher                                                                  -       40        20
1/   Excluding debt service.
2/   Implementation close to OX.
Source:   FY81-86 - UNESCO, derived from data provided by the Ministry of Finance and the
Treasury; FY88 and FY07 - mission estimates.
Tablo 8 - Externally Funded Education Investmnts
(million current CFAF)
1983   1984   1985    1980    197  /  13O   1         _99   1990
Central Administration/ Managemnt   -        -      -        -     N.A.      210    291    146
Primary                            1,062  1,544  1,185   1,411   1,200    2,964  2,199  1,160
Secondary                              0     40    880      189     179      140      -      -
Technical and Professional            14      7      a      140     269      539    620    286
Tertiary                              aS    101     -        25      -       192    178      99
INEP/INRAP                            89      0     -        -       -       314    484    248
Sector-Total                     1,109  1,692  1,528   1,765   1,648    8,466  8,437  1,800
Total External Investment           N.A.   N.A.   N.A.  85,752  20,830       as yet undefined
X Total for Education               N.A.   N.A.   N.A.      6%       OX     N.A.   N.A.   N.A.
a/   1987 and boyond are projections from the Ministry of Finance, Economy and Planning.
b/   IDA Credit 1369-CA equivalent to 2,900 million CFAF closing in December 1908; proposod
new IDA credit equivalont to 4,900 million CFAF from early 1900 until 1990.
Note: Unless otherwise otated, source Is mission estimates.



- 32 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 6 of 8
Table 9 - Public Recurrent Expenditures by Level and Purpose
1986                 1988                1987 1/
Million       X      Million        %      Million       %
Level            Type         CFAF                  CFAF                  CFAF
Primary           Materials           62        1.1        71         1.8        73        1.6
Salaries        4,484       98.9      4,269       98.4     4,618        98.4
Scholarships        0         -           0         -          0          -
Other               0         -           0         -          0          -
Total           4,638      100.0      4,340      100.0     4,691       100.0
Secondary         Materials           44        2.9        87         4.7        69        4.1
(general and      Salaries        1,395        91.8     1,276       89.6      1,293       90.9
technical)        Scholarships        84        5.5        83         6.8        70        4.9
Other               0         -           0         -          0          -
Total           1,623      100.0      1,426      100.0     1,422       100.0
Higher            Materials           48        2.4        48         2.2        57        2.7
Salaries          472       25.1        540       26.3       619        25.0
Scholarships    1,279       87.9      1,430       67.0     1,378       68.4
Other 2/           88        4.6        117       65.        121         6.8
Total           1,883      100.0      2,138      100.0    2,073        100.0
Central           Materials           13        3.4        21         6.3        24        8.1
Administration    Salaries           370       98.8       379        94.7       370       93.9
Scholarships        0         -           0         -          0          -
Other               0         -           0         -          0
Total             383      100.0        3a9      100.0       394       100.0
Other             Materials            0         -          0          -          0         -
Salaries          877      100.0        636      100.0       402       100.0
Scholarships        0         -           0         -          0          -
Other               0         -           0         -          0          -
Total             377      100.1        536      100.0       402       100.0
Total             Materials          186        1.8       205         2.3       213        2.4
Salaries        7,098       81.8      8,998       79.2     7,102        80.0
Scholarships    1,383       16.7      1,513       17.1     1,448        18.3
Other              88        1.0        117        1.3       121         1.4
Total           8,702      100.0      8,833      100.0     8,882       100.0
1/ Budgetary allocations for 1987.
2/   Includes 88 million CFAF for the university restaurant.
Source: Mission estimates.



- 33 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 7 of 8
Table 10 - Total and Unit Costs, by Level of Education (1985)
(in '000 CFAF)
Secondary  Secondary                    University
Primary 1/   General   Technical  Vocational             of     Students
Education   Education  Education   Tra&'  n_ ENI       Bangui   Abroad  INEF
Personnel            4,289      1,217        178           27      78       472       -       189
Material                71         40          4          1.4      28       182       -        13
Scholarships           -           84         20           -       65       630      827       -
Other                  -           99         43          _        24       113       -        28
Total                4,340      1,420        246           28     188    1,247       827      208
(million CFAF)
No. of Students        309          47       2,6          0.3     0,4       2,8      0,7       -
(thousand)
Unit Costs              15         81         98           93     486       448      893
(thousands CFAF)
1/   Primary estimates for 1986, including INRAP and central administration costs.
Source: Mission estimates.
Table 11 - Unit Cost Expenditures as a Percentage of GNP/Capita
Primary                        Secondary                       Higher
Education             General/Technical/Vocational             Education
% GNP/Capita
CAR                       18%                              40%                            661%
Region
Francophone               23%                              88x                          1,000%
Anglophone                12%                              61%                            800%
Average                   15%                              82%                            800%
Source: Mission estimates.



- 34 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 8 of 8
Table 12 - Unit Cost Per Graduate (FY86)
Number of     -----             (CFAF) -----------------
Pupil/Years     Unit Cost        Unit Cost      Cumulative
per            per         per Graduate    Unit Cost/
Graduate     Pupil/Years    at Each Level    Graduate
Primary (CEPE)                            24           16,000          380,000          8S0,000
Lower Secondary (SEPC)                    15           31,000          466,000          826,000
Higher Secondary BAC (general)            23           31,000          713,000        1,538,000
Higher Secondary BAC (technical)          32           98,000        3,188,000        3,981,000
Source: Mission estimat t.
Table 13 - Schglarships in Higher Education
1984/85                   1986/86                   1988/87
Nb.                       Nb.                       Nb.
Student Numbers
Bangui                               1,895                     1,238                     1,650
France                                 878                       429                       426
Africa                                 226                       324                       210
Other                                   66                        82                         11
Total                             2,864                     2,063                     2,198
Million                   Million                   Million
Scholarship Budget                    CFAF                      CFAF                      CFAF
Bangui                                n.a.                                                 e88
France                                n.a.                                                 577
Africa and other                      n.a.                       -                         209
Total                               980                     1,144                     1,373
Source: Mission estimates.



- 35 -
ANNEX 2-4
OONPARATIV3 1S1YSCA201 I111OAC45g                                                  Page   1  of  2
Aptil 15. 1980
CENTAL
ERPEIIOITURE   tDUCATION                       Ca(P3Xr10R           Ricuw  It
ON EWCATION  RECURRHNS       ADULT             RATE fOk             UNIT C.   TROORSSION
GNP PER              AS PERCENT    EEgPEND'T!*S  LITERACY PRIMARY PRIMARY    PRIIURY  PRIMARY    RAtC PIUII   SCODARt SCONDARY  IGNHER
BASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENT CN' TOTAL CENTR  ALLOCATED to: RATE    CIROLL. SCHONL           StUDENTS ETION  PRIMARY tO  ENROLL.   STUDENTs  ENROLL.
YEAR HILLS. (US$)   DEVOTED TO  GOVERIENr    PRl sec  "I    (2)   IATIO   CYCLE             PER       AS PERCENT SECONDARY   RATIO       PER       RTIO
1(1979) 1(1979)   EDUCATION  EXPEtDITURE        (CE)       (1976)   (*)        CE)    TEACHeR  CN?/CAPITA       (5)        (E)     TEACHER      (I)
(3)     O)         ()           ()            (5)          (6)      (7)       (a)       (9)        (10)        (1)        (32)      (13)    (14)
DEVELoPeD COUIITRIP.S
AUSTRALIA          so       6     ,870     6.14    6    4.6       -    --  -                 103'      100        21                     99          73       13       20.90
CANADA             51    23 7b  9,650b    7.78         jS.5'V     308t 34?1 23'?   99b       106l     100         21       39.9'?       100         92'       18       22.600
GRMANY P.R.        79    61.2  12,200      4.6          99          -__  -          ggb       89'     100'        -        -            100'         94'      -        12.10'
NTHERLANDS         79    14.0  10 490      7.9          5.1       20   35   25      99bt      96       95         t8       15.3          99          S2       33       12.4D
5EV ZLeAND         *0     3.2b  6.081b      .5.5       13.4       37   31 28        99b      100      100         24       11.6         100         32        IS      23.80"
StEDEI             79     8.3  12.250      9.0         18.2       31   10   10      99b       998     300         Is&      19.9         100         79'       10'y    36.50')
ASTERN AFRICA
80rNS~WAKA         0 1     .Ob    920b    6.0          22.0       41   34   22      40       100       77         32       10.0          40         20        21        1.80
IURUNDt            81     4.2      235     2.8bw       19.0       43   28   27      25        29'      35         37       20.2          12           3'     1         I.00
COKOROS            64     0.4b    345      3.86        26.0       49   29   22      49        76       40         39       -             45          36       28        0.60
oJIOUTI            84     0.4      480     3.0         11.9       73   26   ...    10         42       66         40       67.0          40          10       19        0.60
e90IOPIA           el    32.8b    140b    2.9P         J.ll       45   25   20      53        42       30'        63       19.3          93'         14       44        0.45
UeNYA              82    17.4b    420b   5.wb         ao.1b      65   16   11      4Sb      113       5S         36        14.4         35          to       26        -
LESOTHO            82     1.4b    435b    5.5          16.9       36   32   26      ,3b      116t      41         46        9.6          46          21       21        1.30
IIAAt9 CAEx        77     8.5      330     4.0"        24.0       53   28   19      50        94bx      33         b         8.0         38          14       23        3.0oby
ISALAWI            81     6.1b    230b    3.9          13.4        38   14   25     25b       62        23        65        5.0          12           4       21        0.40
MAUURitUs         03      1.0b  1,1,0b    4.3         14.0       46   36    t      80b       93       72         23        13.0        100          50       22        1.00
RtAItQA            8l     5.9b    270b    3.6          27.4        71   16  13      37b       65       30         40        16.0          9           5       16        0.40
SSYCIELLES         79     0.6   1,770      5.9         22.4'      34   3     10' lo_                              25              -           _  
SOMALIA           S      4.5      260     1.5         I0.S       Sob  44b   6b    50b        22b      Sob        29b       9.0b         80b         126      22        1.00
SUDAN              60    39.2b    360b    3.0          -          66   39   ...    32         SI"x    68          34         3.4         44          16       16       .
SUAZIIAD           83     0.7b    940b    3.qpb        20.4       51   34   15      65b       93       50         33        11.0         9S          29       tS       3I00
TANZANIA           S0    18.5      260     5.9         37.7       47   30   16      79'       96b      67         43        11.0         l9b          3       20'       0.30
VANDA              00    12.6b    30ob    -            16.1"      23b  37b  20b    48         54'      61         34       -             17           3       23        0.60
UIRE               8l    29.8b    210b    7.7          26.4       -    --   30      54b       76       2$         s0       21.0          40          16       20        2.00
t1SIA              SO     S,b    566b    4.5p         11.1       48   23   22      44b       95       80         48        12.9         19          16       22        1.50
RMtEiAR            81     7.7b    700b    5.1          19.5       62   32    6      44b       90       55         34       20.0          85          Is       23        0.50
MtSTERM AFRICA
RENIN              79     3.4b    320b    6.5"         3S.0       43   21    5    jib         42       30         46        14.0         10          31       43        1.00Y
RlUINkI            83     6.5      2106    2.1"        21.7       43   29   28      9         16       25         S7       24.3          16           3       24        0.03
CANEONI            84    10.0      slob    3.1P        -          33   38   28    20          69       45b        50       -             -           23       28        2.70
C.A.R.             66     2.6b    260b    3.68y        24.7'Y     49   36   24    -           79       4S         65"       38           -           18       67        1.40'Y
CHAD               76     4.4      120     2.41"y      21.7b      -     -     -    19         257                 77              -                   3'xy    21        0.201
CONGO              76     I.S      670     9.0a'y      27.70)'            --96by                                           -             30          -        43by      4.00'y
EQUAT. GUINEA      65     0.3b    270b    2.8           3.8       47   24   ...   20b         13       10         30         5.2         40          25       I7tC      --
GANN0              77     0.6   3,420    3)7by   S .4J            -                     -                         446by    -             -                     Igby     2.80O)
GJ IA              77     0.6      220     3.3"         6 .b      46   254  6P   0ob          41by     90'        276b      44.78        40          12b6y    I7        -
CRAM               76    11.3      400     4.0y        15.56 _       -    -        -          76bxy    -          27by      -            --          3462y    21        --
GUINEA             79     ).3      290P    4.6 P       -          25' 28S  2e'  20            34       36         38        20.07P       8S          16       29        7.004
IVORY COAST        83     93b    720       7.3         42.0       51   40    9    35'Y        72       79         37       29.0          49          2218     30        1.08
LIseRIA            80      1.9     520     4.6         19.6       43   23   24    30          52       32         3s       20.0          76          22       20        2.90
MALI               61     7.06    190      4.'         21.71      so   21   I1    10          20       60         44        15.7         66           1        11       0.90')
MAURITANIA         7S      3.6b    320b    9.5         16.9       33   43   23    37b         32       60         44       52.0          so           9       25        0.37
NIceR              34     5.2      3oo     2.6         21.0       40   25   20    14          23       20         36       41.0          37           6       28        o.So
NICRIAl            83    93.6b    760b    7.6y         16.0        -   -    13    36          93       70         36        19.5         47          23       30        2.00
SENECAL            84     6.4      380     5           14 2 .0    446  Ssb  396   i           52       59         46       26.0          19'         lo       24        2.20'
StERRA LEONE       77     3.4      250     4.0b        1640b      -         -       3 5b      37x      -          35       2-.06b        04          15       22        0.60b6
TOco               7s     2.4      400    4651v        26.S        30' 208  213   38          74       40        9546       38.0         92          32bxy    48b       1.60by
USlAT  AMERICA AND THE Cati8EANt
AceNlTlN           7S    27.3   2.210      2.t         10.9       43'  3Il   1',  93b         89       92         I7        -            87          31        8       23.00
DAW                79     0.2   2.770      5.7         19.1       36   36  i1    93b          99       97         24       -             97          7s        19
ARADO              is     0.2   2,660      8.5.)y    22.1*        43' 31  136    9960b OO              g99        27yI      19.9         99'         78       20)       _
SOLIVIA            8O     5.4    5s0       4.318       30.sk      -    -    -      63         741      -          207      -             -           139      -        12.60Y
U42IL              79   116.5   1.770      3.8          6.2   5     1   -    14    76         73'      -          23t)       4.b         61*         IS)Y    148Y    12.626
CilL!              76 10.9   1.090         3.2by       13.0b            -    -   _           l9gb)y '             34by      -            -           $$b9 y    20)by    13.9"by
COLOMBIA           SO    26.7b  1,180b    3.3          25.0       35   20   20   8gb          78       36         32         6.6         -           47       20       10.02'y
COSTA RICA         80     2.2b  13810b    0.4          31.1       40   27   33    90          93        77        33         5.5         77          40       27       14.00
CUu                73     9.8      -       6.0         11.0       -    -     -     96        112bxY    98          8b?      -_           98          71bxy    I5       19.02by
DOINICANt R UP.    00     s.3   1,030      2.9         33.0       39   21   22    69b         so       31         s9         3.2         94          30       33       16.00
eCUADOR            tO     8.46  13110      6.0P        36.7       45   31   16    S1         305       -          36        12.6         86          47       16       29.00
bL SALVADO         77     4.4      640     3.4by       23.6)by    64    8   27    62          S2=r7    32         39       -             41          26b1y    27by      t.90by
OCvT eA            7S     6.8   1,010       3.P77      12.6b         -    -        -          496 '               35__'by   -            69          1bxy    39by       5.50)y
GUYANA             76     0.0      630     3.6by       13.8by        _       -      -         996bx y             32by      -            -            96bxy    -        3.00by
114TI              s0     5.0b    230      3.4"         7.9my     65    9    6    23b         50       20          3        39.0         42'          4'      27        0.30
8ONDURA5           70     3.6      520     3.5b6       14.3by     U45  IS'  19X   60          89bxy    30         43b6      12.S'        66'         23')     19        0,007
JAMICA             80     2.1   I.110      6.5         13.7        37   43   20    90         90       98         40         2.3         95          81       22        6.00
""too              80    65.S  13,80       4.7        1.0'        46   39   15    92        9s         53        44         9.5         86          56        17      3o.30
UICARAGU           7S     2.6b    610b    3.ob'        14,0b            -  -    -  906b       85b      24         37b      -             -           26bx     Sob       -
PANAMA             7S     I.6   I5sob 5         Sbl7   21.3b6     42 '3   13    02b           95by     -          25)b'     11.6         e5'         Soby     27b6    20.40by
PARAGUAY           79     3.0   1.140       1.40       14.2       42   17   20    84          83       32         28         1.r        76          22        12       0.70
Ermu               8o    16.6   1 000      3.6         14.3       53   IS 19    s0            33       56         39         9.8         89          39       22       14.407
TRINilDD 6 SC9.   77       1.1   3.910     4.by        8.8b6     48   32   20    95          98        91        30        30.3?        49          62       24       -
URUGUAY            7s     2.9   2500      2.3          9,4b      -     -     -    94        losbx       -        24b       _            -           64b4     -        17.00'y
nUNZnA             78    14.4  35440       s.Py        18591       -     -     -   82        1066b     -          28                      - _        336b     17       21.10)



- 36 -
COMPARATIVE EDIICATION  3NDICATORS                                                    ANNEX   2-4
April IS  1987                                                               Page   2   of   2
CENTRAL
CONERNMENT
EXPENDITURE   EDUCATION                         CONPLETION            RECUIReNT
ON EDUCATION  RECURRPNT       ADULT             RATE FAA              UNIT COST  PROGRESSION
Go? PEh              AS PERCENT    EXPENDITURES  LITERACY PRIMARY PRIMARY    PRIMARY  PRIMARY    RATE FROM   SECONDARY SECONDARY HIGHER
BASF  POP.  CAFI TA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL CENTRAL ALLOCATED TO: RATE         ENROLL. SCHOOL      STUDENTS EDUCATION  PRIMARY TO  ENROLL.   STUDENTS  ENROLL.
sEAR HILLS. (US1)   DEVOTED TO  GOVERNOERT    PR1  sec  NI    (2)    RATIO   CYCLE            PER       AS PERCENT SECONDARY   RATIO        PER       RATIO
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPENDIITURE          (1)        (1976)   (X)        (2)      TEACHER  CNP/CAPITA       (2)         (X)    TEACHER      (2)
_ _  _    (I)  (2)  (3)          (4)           O)           (6)       (7)      (8)        (9)        (10)         (11)        (12)      (13)    (14)
EAST ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
CHINA              8i 1,o25b0b    310b    3.1            7.1        38   40   22      77b       77       62         25         8.0          6S          35       17        4.80
INDONESIA          81   13025b       0      2.1          9.3       70   24    6       32b      98        61         37        11.0         74          27        26        3.70
KOREA              82    39,3b  1:636b    ?.7w          20.8        34   34   31      96        99       98         43        19.0          98         84        38       21.80
MALAYSIA           84    15.2b  1S8l0b    6.1           16.7        39W  43w  ISW    70b        971      97         26        I1.3w         89          72       22        4.00
PAPUA N.C.         83      3.0     820      3.4         19.0       40   17   22       --_      60        73*        31       15.0          35          1,x3     27'       1.00
PHILIPPINES        79    ,9.3b    690b    2.8w          14.0       64   36   --    75b         84        65         31         7.1          89          55       36       21.00
SINGAPORE          sD      2.4   4,420      2.7          6.7        39   40   16      83        92       82         31         8.8          96          Ss       22        8.00
SOLEoRON ISL.      82      0.2b    640      6.6pw       19.0b      41   34   20       15        78       80         27        10.5          40         20        Id        2.50
THAILAND           82    49.06    8006    34            20.3         9   14   10      86b      101       68         21         9.3I         44          46        to       4.00
VANUIATU           86      0.1b    -        R.3         23.5        61   27    4      13       115       60         24        31.0          2S          20       16        2.00
SOUTH ASIA
DANCLADESN         19    92.3b      90      I.IP        10.18y      51   17   20      22b       63         - _3                5.6          -           14       23        1.43
BHUTAN      B       0      1.2      el      3.6         11.0                          10        12                  ---       -'                         --
INDIA              77   659.6      210      2.9)         9.9wy            _     __ _ __ _ .  6  79X      ---        41                 _ _      _       28x      -         8.30'Y
NEPAL              82    13.0b    150b    1.4          __           __  __-_-         19        70       --         38         _            -           21       23        3.70'
PAK-ISTAN          82    87.1b    380b    2.0            7.0        38   20   24      22        s0       41         30         3.9          S6          21        15       3.00
EUROPE. MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
AFGHANISTAN        77      S.3 S   ---      1.7          3.7        47   19   13      12        31by     69         37b       ---           62           8        22by     1.00Y
t.Ih;FRIA          79    18.3   1,770       3.6w        12.1        34'  26'  21'    35         83t       45'       37         7.0?         5S-         29Y      26        3.707
EGYP               82    43.3'    6SO0    4.6"           7.9        31'  353  264    44         753       80'       34'        9.8'         53'         43'       19'     17.00
CREECE             76      9.3   4,140      2.6"        10.6b       37   26   21      ---       97by       -        29b        6.21                     7961      27by    17.80bY
IRAN               79    36.9      ---      5.7')       14.1')     --  ---   --              -0 101"      -         320       --            __          44x      24'       4.90'y
IRAQ               79    12.6   2,710       4.3aY        6.9')     --         -       --      10)'       ---oy      28        -                         453)     29'       9.30'y
IRELAND            81      3.4b  4 480      6.357       11.8Ja  a   --- _    __       98        93       94         29        ---           98          81       14       11.00
JORDAN             81      2.26  1.420b    4.9"         10.2       19   44   18       70b      92'       83         32        15.1          __          69'      38        8.9O
LM5ANOR            79      2.3     -_       ___         18.6")'   ---  _-   -         -__       96x      _          19        __-                       46x      -        27.80')
:;OROCCO           84    21.6b    670b    6.0"          22.9        38   43   19      35        57e        9        31        15.1          -           14'       38       8.90f
OKA*               8s      1.2b  6.490b    3.2          12.7"       --_    _   -      3obt      71"      63'        25'       -             90          Ila       14      ...
PORTUGAL           79     9.8b  2 060       3.6         22.2        50   28   il      78        97       20         19i       12.8          88'        4Ox       17'       8.30X
R90Mh11A           78    22.1   2,100       3.9by        6.2y)      -    -     -      98       106       -_         23b                     98          84b6      22b     10.60by
SPAIN              76    37.0   4,920       2.1y        16.8Y       -_ _ _                      g8by      ---       296   _                             67by       -      24.10by
SYRIA              78      8.6   1,170      4.4P        10.3        39   25   26      38        87by      80        3$b       -             68          41b?      21b     12.60
TUNISIA            79      6.4   1,130      7.0P        19.0        42   39   18      62b      100'      80         39b       12.8          30          30'      30        6.00
TURKFY             83      41.5  1,230      3.1         16.2        s0   22   24      73b      11o        77        31         6.0          Ss          26        11       8.00
YEMEN A.R.         84      9.3b    530b    7-9P         17.7        80   20   It      21'       55       28         51        27.8          80           9       20        1.90
YEMEN P.0.R.       82      2.0b    420b    7.6           9.7        63'  14'   84    53         61        34        25        22.0'         46          17        20       2.50
SUMKARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
Nuabor of countries:                      84              9)       70   69   67      81        92       68         95        65            75          91       88       83
Range:                                    (1.4-          (3.7-  (23-  (8-  (5-    (8-        (12-     (12-        (17-      (1.4-         (10-        (1-      (8-      (0.03-
10.0)         54.3)  94)   46)  33)    99)        119)      99)         77)      67.0)          100)       84)       68)      29.0)
Qw*trIlea: Upper:                          5.6           21.7      51   36   22      81        98        80        43        20            87          47        26      11.0
Mediat:                        4.0           16.1      43   28   19      53        83       61         35        13            65          26       22        3.7
Loewr:                         3.0           11.0      38   21   13      25        60       35         28         9            40          14        19       1.0
Qsrtcile DeviatIon,                        1.3            5.4    6.5  7.5  4.S   28.0        19.0     22.3         7.0      3.6          23.3        16.5       3.5       3.0
Itean:                                     4.4           17.0      46   28   18      53        76        59        36        16            62          31        23       6.9
Standard Delvation:       ,                1.9            8.7      12   to    7      29        27        24         It       13            27          23         7       7.4
Median:                                    4.0           16.0      43   28   19      5)        8)        61         is       13            65          26        22       3.7
SYMBOLS;                                                                POOTHOTES:
--  DATUH UNAVAILABLE                                                     A * DATUM PRIOR TO BASE YEAR                8 - MINISTRY 3? EDUCATION (MOR) ONLY
M4ACNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIbLE                                         t - DATUIt Mst RECANT tItAN BASE tEAR       T * MOE AND STATE cOVERMMENT ONLY
DATUM  QUESTIOAtULE                                                  N - CURRENt  PRICES                         I * PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ONLY
*    INCLUDES PART-TIMe STUDENTr                                          E * SET ENROLLJtET RATIO                    I - ItCLIUDES OMEE-AGE STUDENTS
P -GROSS ENROLLMENT IATIO                   I - UNESCO SOURCES
P * CDP
SOURCESt         Coluana I and 2:  Worlds tnk AtIa  or Education sector field *ssione.
Column  3 to 14:  World Rnk Education  eoctor aseolona. COvernmot oaurcea and/or the Unaeso Statistical Yearbook.
Corprrativte Eduration Oac': are ueeful in tEse evaluation of vorlo. education eystem. end analyfia of rolottvt stages of cducationel developent between valcoa
countries.  H0onver, on the basts of the proeent data, cro*a-nattonal coapertson should be approached with great caution.  Date presented in tha above table bave
b"en collected lr8rely by Sank *tasiors fror governent sources; the rotainder ate staff eatimate$ or data from Unesco.  Etforts have bean made to otLadardlae
dettnttlono end. within litatt, to ehock the SccuracY of the data.  bvartheless. such data at otill tepertfct In aeverst reapec.t and the Dank Is working to
itprove them progressively on the occasion of Ite operattonal work. In the use of tbea. date, the tollowIng quallitictioas should be kept Ei minds
(1)   'Education' to defined in ths table Includes all education and tratning, both ftmat and non-tosal.
(2)   'Primary' aducation raters to education at the first lvel 0nd 'secondry' aduc4tion refors to o11 educatIon at the seCondary level regArdloes of type
(e.g. seoral. technical, agricultural).
(3)   'Literacy rate.' (col. 6) are often obtained from country consumse.  In many countries they are only approsimtione and It to doubtful tEht any uniform
definition of 'Itterota' has been tollowed consietently.
(4)   'Pubitc expanditure In education' (cols. 4 and 3) rtfere to all capital and recurrent expenditures devoted to aducation by public and qusal-public
estmiele.
(5)   'lnrolltent retlom' (cole. 7. 12 and 14) roter to school year nnd ate the percentage of sltgibla children enrolled full-time in the approprtate *chool,
public #ad private by level. They are often subject to a wtdo margtn of error to the developing counturl owirng to vartattin. tn the accuracy of bastc
data (I.e.. ase-operltir population *nd enrullments).  tnrellant fitures frequently oae hISher then the n,itbat of studento actually tn echool.
(hrot-a44  ttU4-11 may be lnelu.d*4 In I.t         figures and csn inflete the ratios.



- 37 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 1 of 5
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INTERNAL EFFICIENCY, QUALITY AND STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT
A.   Internal Efficiency and Cost Per Graduate
1.        Calculation of the cost per graduate is linked to the internal
efficiency of the system. This is unfortunately very poor, the education
system in CAR being characterized by extremely high repetition and dropout
rates. These rates do not reveal any significant changes over the past 6
years, and it may consequently be assumed that, in the absence of a policy
change or qualitative improvements, the repetition and dropout rates will
remain fairly stable.
2.        Taking 1,000 CI entrants in 1975, and applying the repetition rates
observed each year for each level to obtain the cohort reconstruction from
the theoretical flow, the total of CEPE graduates is 210. an efficiency rate
of 21Z. Of the original 1,000 entrants; 553 have dropped out along the way,
having attended school for an average of three years; 447 of them have gone
as far as CM2, and of these, 53Z have failed the CEPE. Altogether, the
cohort has received 4,974 years of instruction, an average of 24 school years
per graduate. This latter figure is important, since it enables the calcula-
tion of the cost per graduate and the comparison of the CAR's performance
with that of other countries in the region (23 in Benin, 20 in Senegal, 18 in
Niger, 15 in Burkina Faso). Average performances within the region are
clearly poor, and that of CAR one of the poorest.
3.        A student who completes primary school, whether he graduates or
not, spends an average of eight years there (instead of six), which implies
that each student repeats twice. This explains why CM2 students are gener-
ally between 13 and 15 years of age, instead of 11, which would be the norm.
Generally speaking, progress through the school system is slow: the average
age of students taking the BAC is over 20, and students who go on to higher
education spend a long time at that level, up to age 30 or more. Quite
understandably, they regard the scholarship they receive as a wage, viewing
the status of student as a substitute for employment.
4.        Internal performances at the secondary level, both in the first
(BEPC preparatory) cycle and in the second (BAC preparatory) cycle, are
hardly any better than those noted at the p:imary level. Using the same
survival rate method, it takes 15 student-years (instead of the theoretical
four) to produce a BEPC graduate, and 23 student-years to produce a bachelier
(instead of the theoretical three). This latter figure is explained more by



- 38 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 2 of 5
the very high rate of BAC failure (almost 90Z) than by the number of
repeaters and dropouts. I/
S.        Based on these data, it is thus possible to estimate costs per
graduate, multiplying the cost per student-year by the number of student-
years necessary to the production of the graduate concerned.
Table 1 - Cost per Graduate (1985)
------------------- (CFAF) ------------------
Number of                                         Cumulative
Student-Years    Unit Cost per    Unit Cost per  Unit Cost/
per Graduate   Student-Year (1)   Graduate (1)  per Graduate
CEPE                  24              15,000             360,000        360,000
BEPC                  15              31,000             465,000        835,000
BAC                   23              31,000             713,000     1,538,000
Technical BAC         32              98,000          3,136,000      3,961,000
(1)  Borne by CAR.
In the case of the general BAC, the total cost per bachelier is CFAF
1,538,000, and in the case of the technical BAC, 3,961,000 (twice as high).
These figures represent, respectively, 13 and 36 times the country's GNP per
capita.  For the general BAC, this is three times the annual cost of a
student of higher education in Bangui, and 1.5 times the annual cost of a
student abroad.  By comparison with public-sector wages, these costs are
equivalent to 1.5 times the average annual salary of a civil servant.
6.        With respect to primary and general secondary education, it seems
unreasonable to try to bring down the costs per student-year, given that unit
costs consist almost entirely of teacher salaries and that the teacher-pupil
ratio is already outside the limits of sound pedagogical practice. On the
contrary, steps should be taken to improve internal efficiency, thereby in
fact incurring additional expenditures. At the primary level, the distribu-
tion of textbooks and teaching supplies could push up the cost per student-
year by CFAF 1,500-2,000, an 8-12Z unit cost increase. These measures should
have a significant impact on performance, in terms both of lowered repetition
rates and of higher exam pass rates. It is true that it is difficult to
foresee the extent of such improvements, and there is little literature on
this point. However, the distribution of textbooks in the Philippines had a
significant impact on student performance, and it has now been established
(cf. Psacharopoulos and Woodhall, 1985) that the supply of textbooks to
1/   The repetition and dropout rates used here are average rates for the
latest years recorded (36? BEPC pass rate for the six school years
1980-85, 12.52 BAC pass rate for the four years 1981-85). They produce
slightly different results from those of the ORIVEL/RASERA report for
February 1986, since they are based on more recent data.



- 39 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 3 of 5
schools that have practically nothing is one of the most cost-efficient
measures that can be taken.
7.        Tables 2 and 3 simulate the effect on the cost per graduate both of
lower repetition and dropout rates and of a higher CEPE pass rate,
consequences of the qualitative improvements in primary education resulting
from measures introduced by the project. In both cases, a modest change
(102) is sufficient to bring down the cost per graduate by 3Z for each
effect, and on the order of 6Z if the two effects are simultaneous. In the
hypothesis that, following the improvements made, the cumulative repetition
and dropout rates will go down by 301, dropping from their present 42% record
to a more reasonable 291, and that the CEPE pass rate will go up by 30%,
rising from its present level of 47% to 611, the reduction in the cost per
graduate would be 24.7% and 17.4%, respectively, while the two effects
together would lead to a reduction of over 40% in the cost per graduate. For
a given budget, this would mean a 40% increase in the number of new places
available for children presently excluded from enrollment.
Table 2 - Impact on Cost Per Graduate of Reductions in
Re2petition and Dropout Rates
Reduction in repetition
and dropout rates             None     -102      -15      -202     -252      -30%
Repetition and
dropout rates                  422      382      35.7Z    33.6?    31.5%    29.4?
No. of student-years
per graduate                   24.0     21.3      20.1      18.9      17.8     16.6
Cost per student-year 1/   15,000   16,500   16,500   16,500   16,500   16,500
Cost per graduate           360,000  351,450  331,650  311,850  293,700  272,250
Drop in cost per
graduate                      None     -3.4Z    -7.9Z   -13.4?   -18.41   -24.4%
l/   An increase of 1,500 CFAF is given to allow the increase of textbooks
and teaching supplies.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 4 of 5
Table 3 - Impact cn Cost per Graduate of Increases in CEPE Pass Rates
Present
Efficiency                   Situation    +10Z    +152    +20t    +252    +30Z
CEPE pass rate                   472        52Z     54X      56Z     59X      61%
Efficiency rate                21.0      23.2%   24.1Z   25.02   26.42   27.3Z
No. of student-ye-.rs
per graduate                     24      21.4    20.6    19.9    18.8    18.2
Cost per student-year 11    15,000    16,500  16,500  16,500  16,500  16,500
Drop in cost per
graduate                        -       -1.9Z   -5.6%   -8.8%  -13.8Z  -16.62
1/   See note on Table 2.
8.        In the secondary system, the restoration of minimal selection
criteria will result irnitially in an automatic increase in unit costs per
student, since the e1imination of clandestine enrollments will reduce the
number of students per class without altering the volume of expenditure at
this level. There again, an increase in cost per student-year will not raise
the cost per bachelier, but very probably bring it down. Clandestine
enrollees are those who failed the sixth grade entrance exam, and, with very
few exceptions, are less competent than those who passed. In view of the
poor internal efficiency of the secondary system (38 student-years per
bachelier, 13% BAC pass rate), only one sixth grade entrant out of 15 passes
the BAC, and it is most likely that he will come from the group of
"competent" students. Consequently, elimination of the incompetent students,
by reducing the number of students per class (often over 100), will enable
the system to function better, and lead to better performances by the
"competent" students, thus reducing the cost per bachelier at the same time.
B.   Educational Quality and Achievement
9.        Table 4 summarizes the primary and secondary examination results
over the last seven years. Despite an increase of almost 25% in the total
primary enrollments between 1980 and 1985, the number of students in the
final year of primary school has increased only slightly and consequently the
number of CEPE examination candidates have remained almost constant. The
pass rate for this examination, and that for entry into the first year of
secondary schooling, has remained relatively constant with less than 50X
succeeding at the CEPE and about 252 of all candidates gaining entry to
secondary school. With an increase in the total enrollments (and hence in
the number of student-years of instruction given each year) but a constant
number of successful graduates from the primary system, there has been a
decline in efficiency with a drop in educational quality at this level of
education.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 5 of 5
10.        The situation at the secondary level is different, nevertheless the
result is the same.  The rapid expansion of secondary enrollments at both the
lower and upper cycles has led to an increasing number of candidates
presenting for examination at the levels of BEPC and Baccalaureate. Apart
from an initial rise in the actual number of successful candidates at the
beginning of the period, the success rate at both of these examinations has
fallen faster than the increase in the number of candidates with the results
that there were fewer successful candidates in 1984-85 than in 1980-81. Once
again, with increased enrollments but reduced numbers of successful
graduates, the efficiency of the system has declined and a drop in
educational quality may be deduced.
Table 4 - Summary of Past Examination Results
Entry Into
CEPE             Secondary            BEPC           Baccalaureate
Year    Candidates  % Pass  Candidates % Pass  Candidates % Pass  Candidates % Pass
1979-80   18,392      44.7    27,818     22.1     b,140      16.5     2,169     27.4
1980-81   19,790      47.1    27,804     24.4     4,969      39.0     2,883     88.8
1981-82   19,623      44.7    27,804     24.0     7,076      82.7     3,427     18.2
1982-83   19,860      44.9    28,641     23.0     8,111      40.4     4,138     14.9
1988-84   19,639      50.0    25,002     20.1     7,881      50.6     45646     13.1
1984-85   17,923      48.1    24,788     24.?      7,900     17.3     6,424 a/  10.8
1986-88   21,805      44.3    26,719     14.9      7,61a     20.8     6,826     1S.6
a/  The baccalaureate pass rates by subject specialization tor 1984-85 were as follows:
Series                  Pass Rate
A Humanities                     8.4%
B Economics                      8.4%
CD Mathematics and Science       14.7%
FG Technology                    28.3%



ANNEX 2-6
Page 1 of 1
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUKIC
SUI~RY BY RE615 M    CAOOTRIES
CUiARISOIS Of IWVESTRENt COSTS FOR PRIRARY S       . CONSTRUCTON AND EgUIPlnT                                                          A= TEIPRMY SHELTER AS CONSTRUCTED IV LOAL COM II'Y
--  SERII-0   W3 E BILDIUSS AS CONSThiCTED BY tOAL CM ITY
C= DWIJLIE BUILDINGS AS CONSTRC  E Y TIE 6CVENIIET
DO  MRLE LOI-COST BUILDINGS US19   LOC   CMSTRUCT7ON rATRIALS
COlIATIOU:        97
C-TS -I  US  PER STUN PLME
F.E.    F.E.                  LC            LC           1  s
tE1GM   P.INC.   P.IC               P.tic         P.1K            C                                                               ChiUiU  IIESTIU   COSTS                      N.       iAtiou
- -----                                                                          a ~ ~ ~~ ~~                 ~ ~      ~ ~~~~~~~~~ i  C  0  A      c  0
90     11. 1    50.7n              14.11        106.22           211
at      9.1t   39.92               19.71         92.11           272                                                            SEIaL       12        lb    S10    I5s       12        14     33      9
92      7.42   29.91               12.2          72.4t           329                                                            C.A.L        12      70    412    152        14       I3     25     to
83      5.02   21.51               19.5t           .9            381                                                           9m2t         17        71    473    175        17       13     St        1
84      4.    1M.52                2t.52         41.42           43?
95      4.2t   11.n                10.92         20.M            454
b       ?.52    7.52               10.02         10.02L          357
87              0.0?                              0.02           314
CUIT COSTS 11 '000 LOCAL CWAEKY                           CIIT  CSTS to US t
CLASSIOI C1MTERISTICS             BATA  (at date of  afoereataon)                         IWEStIEIT CTSTS         SAINT.  AMNIK   UTIIZATIU         IWIIIT  COSTS            FINT   A4OS1  TIZATIOA
class  plun      ara       are       yer loal    t..  apip.  F.E.    life  uaint.   total  total  total    aaint   amt.   mrt. art.    total  total  total                    aint   artt art.  art.
COUITRY         types  Iclass  /lass   Iplace        data curr.  /clas  /class    LC    titm   /year   class /place    1t2    /year   /clan  /plate            a2   /class 1place      2    lyr    lttass /plce    /o2
......................................................................  .....  .......a........    . .........C..;..................................  C.....I................ .............    .....................    .......    ......................    .....................    .......    .....................
ount      a2        2        ear  cur   cr.    curr         I    year       2    curr.  ccrr.  curr.    curr.    curr.   curr.  corr.          t       0      *        *         *      *      8
SENEGAL         a          65       65     1.00        85 CFAF       110     13 90.0          I     0.02     249       4      4        0       248       4      4      790      12     12        0       790     12     12
b          60      60      1.00        05 CFAF   1,120       24048.0S        6     2.02   1,436      24     24        29      268       4       4    4,574     76     76        91      854      14     14
C          54      63      1.l7        85  CFAF   7,500      614  56.0?     25     2.5?   9,646    160    137        216      562      10      9   27,534    510    437        689    1,7M0     33      28
D          56      56      1.00        86  CFAF   2,100      535  28.0o     25     2.02   2,690      48     48        54      161       3       3    9,568    153    153       171      514      9       9
C.A.R.          A          e5       65     1.00        B7 CFAf       120     150   0.02       1     0.0     250      4       4        0      279        4      4      796      12     12        0      S85      14     14
O          63      63      1.00        87 CFAF   1,100       280  40.02      6     2.0t  1,380       22     22        29      258       4      4    4,395      70     70        Be      820     13      13
C          54      66      1.22        87 CFAF   6,500       480  50.02     25     2.02   6,980    129    106        140      419       8      6   22,229    412    337        445    1,334     25      20
D          54      64      1.19        87  CFAF   2,150      434  35.02     25     2.52   2,584      49     40        65      169       3       3    8,229    152    129      2c-       53S     10      8
BURyINA         A           70      70     1.00        94  CFAF      220     150   0.02       I     0.02     370      5       5        0      370        5      5    1,178      17     17        0    1,178      17     17
8          70      70      1.00        84  CFAF   1,200      250  49.02      6     2.02   1,565      22     22        31      292       4       4    4,984     71     71       1?3      930     13      13
C          54      90      1.48        84  CFAF   6,900      540  56.02     25     2.52   9,019    149    100        200      52t      10       7   25,516    473    319      638    1,660      31     21
D          54      59      1.09        84  CFAF   2,275      436  46.02     25     2.02   2,971      55     50        59      179       3       3    9,460    175    160       189      568     11      10



- 43 -
ANNEX 2-7
Page 1 of 3
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RETURNS TO EDUCATION
A. Wage Estimates
1.        The method of calculation used is the classic, simplified method,
in which the private rate of return rp is equal to:
r  -         pay at level s            -           Bay at level s-1
loss of earnings (number of years of schooling between
s-I and s multiplied by pay at level s-1)
and the social rate of return is equal to:
r8        same pay factor as for rp
same denominator as for r plus public cost of schooling to
obtain diploma a for a pepson already holding diploma s-I
The formulae require the average pay by level of schooling, shown in
Table 1 below. These estimates represent a compromise between the mean
wage for jobs already held and present employment prospects. The public
sector continues to offer greater advantages, but only for those already in
it, since there is very little new hiring.
Table 1
Average Monthly Wage (or income) According to Diploma and Sector (CFAP)
Private
Private                     Informal
Formal        Public         Sector       Agricultural
Sector (1)    Sector (1)    (non-agric)        Sector
Illiterates                -              -          13,000           6,500
CEPE                    23,500         20,000            -              -
BEPC                    30,000         50,000            _              _
BAC or technician       50,000         90,000            -              -
Higher education       120,000        110,000
(1)  The public-sector wages given here are taken from actual civil service
pay records and may thus be regarded as close to the average wages
earned during the course of Government employment. In contrast,
private-sector wages are close to the present starting wages, and may
be regarded as marginal. Consequently, the rates of return to the
public sector are more representative of average rates of return,
while the rates of return to the private sector illustrate more
closely the level of marginal rates of return.



- 44 -
ANNEX 2-7
Page 2 of 3
B. Analysis of Rates of Return.
2.        Social rates of return are traditionally lower than private rates
of return because of inclusion In the denominator of the schooling cost
borne by the State. This is born out in the result slhown below in Table 2:
Table 2
Rate of Return to Education in CAR
Private Rate of Return    Social Rate of Return
Formal                     Formal
Public        Private        Public       Private
Sector        Sector         Sector       Sector
Primary with oppor-
tunity cost                    9.0          13.4           5.6        23.3 a/
Primary without
opportunity cost           n.a. b/       n.a. b/          14.6        50.0 a/
First cycle
secondary                     31.9           6.9          23.7         4.9
AC                            26.6          22.2          20.4        12.5
Higher education               15.6          35.0          3.2        17.5
a/   For the calculation of the social rate of return in the formal private
sector, the reference income taken for primary education is the
notional income of a farm worker (estimated at 6,500 CFAF) and not
that of illiterates In the informal private sector.
b/   The value tends to infinity as the denominator is zero.
3.        An analysis of these rates reveals that in CAR, as in almost
every other African country or in other developing regions, it is prinlary
education that produces the highest rates of return, except for the social
rate of return in the public sector. This is explained by the fact that
the civil service almost always requires the BEPC as its minimum entry
level, CEPE holders having practically no choice other than precarious,
low-paid jobs (temporary laborer, day laborer, etc.). Apart from this
anomoly, it appears that wage scales in the civil service are more
compressed than in the private sector. There is strong convergence toward
the mean, which explains the very low social rate of return of higher
education (3.2%). The reason why students continue to apply for higher
education is that they do not have to pay for it, a situation implying poor
allocation of funds within the education system. Generally speaking, the
rates given above are overestimated, In the sense that they assume that the
students have not repeated a "post-obligatory" school year (i.e. a year for
which a loss of earnings can be recorded), and that they will not be
exposed to periods of unemployment.



- 45 -
ANNEX 2-7
Page 3 of 3
4.        The impact of these different factors is shown in Table 3, which
is based on the most interesting rate in CAR's present situation, namely
the social rate of return in the formal private sector. As will be seen,
with agricultural income as the reference income, the rate of return to
primary education is 23.3% with the opportunity cost taken into account,
and 50% without this opportunity cost. In reality, the opportunity cost is
probably positive, since non-enrolled children are frequently engaged in
farm work, but it is very probably lower than the average income of the
adult worker, which means that the true rate of return for primary
education is within the 23.5%-50% range.
5.        With respect to the effects of repetitions and of periods of
post-schooling unemployment on the rates of return, they obviously cause
them to decline, more sharply in cases of repetition (which produce a
double cost in terms of loss of earnings and schooling) than in cases of
unemployment, which only generate loss of income. These effects, which may
be added together, are interesting in the sense that they heavily
underscore the basic argument of the present project. Repetitions and
unemployment have only a slight impact on the rate of return to primary
education (because of the small loss of income and the moderate costs of
schooling at this level). Even with five repetitions, or three repetitions
followed by two years of unemployment, primary education retains an
enviable rate of 15.4%. However, the rates for the first cycle of
secondary school, already showing a poor performance, fall rapidly to
insignificant levels. The rates of return for the BAC and the university
diplomas fare somewhat better, but their average level is still lower than
primary education (6.7% and 7.8% instead of 15.4%) and, taking account of
errors of measurement, these investments can no longer be regarded as
socio-economically justified.
Table 3
Social Hate of Return in the Formal Private Sector According to Number of Repetitions and Years Unemployed
With
With Repetition        Unemployment
Without Repetition        (primary in relation to      (Without
or Vnemployment         the Agriculture Sector)    Repetition)
In Relation to
Non-Agriculture In Relation to
Informal Sector  Agriculture
a/        Sector    1 yr  2 yrs  3 yrs  4 yrs  5 yrs  1 yr  2 yrs
Primary with
opportunity cost      8.3         23.3     20.1  18.7  17.4  16.3  15.4  21.3  19.8
Primary without
opportunity cost     21.9         50.0             -         -     -    -    -
First cycle
secondary             4.9           -       4.2   3.6   3.2   2.9   2.6  4.3   3.7
BAC                   12.5          -       11.1   9.6   8.4   7.4   6.7  11.2   9.7
Higher education     17.5           -       14.0  11.7  10.0   8.7   7.8  17.5  14.0
a/ Nightwatchman or house servant.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 1 of 5
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANALYSIS OF PRIMARY TEACHERS SUPPLY AND DEMAND
1.        Primary teaching personnel.  Or the 4,614 teachers working in
primary schools in CAR during 1984/85 about 750 were recent graduates
employed as Istagiaires contractuels' while awaiting their formal recruitment
with the civil service. The balance were civil servants with different
qualifications and lengths of service with the Ministry of Education. The
distribution of teaching staff by qualification and geographical location is
shown in Table 1 where it is seen that 20? of primary teachers are qualified
as Instituteurs, 412 as Instituteurs Adjoint and the remaining 39? as either
Agent Superieur or Agents. Non-teaching staff such as inspectors, pedagogic
advisors, suppleants and surveillants and some staff of inspectorates and the
Ministry of Education, although working in administrative duties, have also
been trained 8' primary teachers. Their numbers are 314 or 72 of the primary
education p-rsonnel.
Table 1 - Primary Teachers by Qualification and Rgtion (1984/86) 1/
Kaga
Qualifications /J  8angul Berborati Bouar Bosson ac Bandoro Bembari Bannassou Total _X%
Institutours         380    76      95   65    123    146        76      949  20.6
Institutoura Adjoint   651    155    283   141    288    324    114    1,680  40.7
Agents Sup.          791    96    128   82    130    108         75    1,487  82.2
Agents               114    24      30   29       28    58       is      298   6.6
Totals           1,935    850    484   808    543    718    281    4,614 100.0
1/ The 760 Ocontractuels stagiairesl awaiting formal recruitment Into the civil service
have been allocated according to their qualifications.
2/ Teacher qualifications are detailod in paragraph 3.
2.        Primary teacher salaries.  The average salary of those teaching in
primary schools is 85,200 CFAF/month (US$259), and the range of salaries is
about average for the region with the highest step of the salary scale of the
most trained instituteur being 3.3 times that of the lowest step of the
salary scale of the least trained teacher. All salaries have been frozen
since 1982 with no annual increment or any promotion inside the different
categories. Table 2 provides regional comparative data on primary salaries,
while Table 3 gives details of the situation in CAR and shows the effects of
the salary freeze with the gradual decline of the ratio between the average
teacher salary and the GDP/capita.



- 47 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 2 of 5
Table 2 - Range of SalarY scale for Primary School Teachers for
Selected West African Countries Around 1982-83
S of the                              Ratio of
Total        Salary Rang_ V/          Avorage
Teaching     Lowest      Highest      Salary to
Country          Category of Toachor        Force V/        Se                    P D.C. Income
Burkina Faso      Ionitour                          1         1.0         1.8
Inatituteur Adjoint             83         1.6         3.1           N.A.
Institutour                     386        1.7         3.6
Cameroon          Institutour Adjoint             ...         1.0         1.6
Institutour                                1.4         2.8           N.A.
Institutour Principal                      1.6         3.1
C.A.R.            Agont A Agent Supariour          89         1.0         2.4
Institutour Adjoint             41         1.4         2.8           7.9
Instituteour                    20         1.6         8.3
Ivory Coast       Moniteur                         .          1.0         1.9
Institutour                    ...         1.8         3.6           8.6
Niger             Moniteur                         is        1i0          2.1
lnstituteur Adjoint             70         1.6         2.7           9.8
Institutour                     14         2.3         4.7
Togo              Moniteur                         34         1.0         2.5
Instituteur Adjoint             52         2.0         8.9           4.7
Instituteur                     11         2.8         8.6
1/   Figures for each country may not add to 10N  as categories shown may exclude som
teachers.
2/ For each country the salaries are exprooesd as a multiplo of lowest step of the salary
scalo for the least trainod category of teachers.
Source: Various national and World Bank documents.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 3 of 5
Table 3 - CAR Primary Teacher Salary Levels (1982/87)
Average
Category/      Civil                         Salary/   Ratio of Average Salaries to
Qualification of  Service    Salary Ranae 11     Month        per Capita Income 21
Teacher       Grade    Minimum  Maximum   ('000 CFAF)  1982/83  1984/8S  1986/87
Agents           C1                               54.0       6.4      6.0      5.2
1.0      2.4
Agent Superiour   82                              82.7       7.4      6.9      5.9
Institutcur                                                 11.7     10.7      9.4
Adjoint         81         1.4      2.8          97.3
Instituteur      A3         1.6      3.3         108.5      12.8     11.8     10.3
Conseiller                                                  14.2     13.0     11.4
Pedagogique 3/   A2          -                  118.0
Inspecteurs 3/    Al          -        -         184.2      22.1     20.3     17.8
Average Primary
Teacher                      -        -          85.2      10.2      9.4      8.2
1/  Salary range normalized on the lowest step of the salary scale of the least trained
teacher.
2/  Per capita income estimated as follows:  1982/83 100,000 CFAF; 1983/84 108,850 CFAF;
1986/87 124,120 CFAF
3/  These levels are not ar'ive teachers.
Source: Various national documents.
3.         Description of CAR's Primary Teacher Training Program.  The heter-
ogeneous nature of the primary teaching corps is explained in part by the
gradual evolution and development of the teacher training system, and in part
by the examination performance of the trainees upon completion of their
courses and their recruitment into the teaching profession. Between 1962 and
1971, primary teachers were trained in Bangui as Agents Superieur or Institu-
teurs Adjoint with one year of studies.. From 1970 until 1985, the Teachers
Training College (Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs - ENI) at Bangui trained
Instituteurs in a three-year program, and between 1980 and 1985, a UNESCO
program trained Instituteurs Adjoint with a two-year training course. In
1985-86 CAR rationalized its teacher training program into a single
structure. This program, based at the ENI in Bambari, which requires comple-
tion of secondary schooling (baccalaureate) plus a psychopedagogic test as
the minimum entry requirements, lasts for two years, one year of basic
training and one year of practical/theoretical training combined, and leads
to an examination and one-month test in the classroom. Successful graduates
are awarded the "Certificate d'aptitude pedagogique A lenseignement
fondamentalv (CAPEF) and have the rank of Instituteur.



ANNEX 2-8
- 49 -                              Page 4 of 5
Unsuccessful candidates are allowed to retry their examinations twice and, if
they do not succeed, they are granted the rank of Instituteurs-adjoint.
Although the CAPEF is a primary teaching qualification, a number of those
holding this certificate are employed in secondary education or adminis-
trative duties. However, it is important to note that there has been no
regular in-service training of teachers and no internal professional
advancement of teaching staff through competitive examinations since 1983.
4.        Primary Teacher Training Capacity.  Following the rationalization
of teacher training institutions and 5eginning in the academic year 1986-
1987, the ENI located at Bambari, which opened in 1983-84, offered the only
pre-service training for primary teachers in the CAR. The college in Bangui
was transformod into a National Center for Continuing Education Upgrading
(Centre National de Formation Continue - CNFC) and coordinates the regional
retraining capacity in the seven Regional Pedagogical Centers (Centre Peda-
gogique Regionaux - CPR). The ENI at Bambari is currently underutilized and
its first graduating class of 1985-86 totalled 33 students of whom 25 were
successful. With a reorganized academic year of 200 days, taking into
account students on practical teaching exercises in local schools, and an 80%
utilization of the existing buildings, its output of teachers could be sub-
stantially increased to about 200 graduates p.a. from w;he existing two-year
program. Other teacher training capacity at the CNFC and the CPR's will be
used for in-service training and upgrading of existing teachers, although it
would be possible to operate pre-service courses in these institutions should
the need arise.
Table 4 - Primar" Teacher Training/Retralning Capacity
No.                                        Graduate
of  Theoretical Utilization    Enrollments  Output/
Insttution         Type       Rooms Capacity    Rat.   Year 1 Year 2 Total   Year
ENI Bambari        Pro-service  10     435       80%      210   200  410    200
CNFC Bangui        In-service    8     380       80%       -     -   304   N.A.
CPRs
(7 regional centers) In-service    7  280       80X       -    -   220   N.A.
5.        Demand for Primary Teachers.  Table 5 throws some light on the
magnitude of the demand for primary school teachers in CAR until 1993.  This
table presents six different estimates of the need for new teachers under
different hypotheses concerning (a) enrollment growth; and (b) changes in the
pupil-teacher ratio. All calculations include an annual teacher retirement/
wastage rate of 2%. This is close to the observed loss of teachers from the
profession in the last two years but would increase in outer years with the
gradual aging of the teaching corps. The first three rows of Table 5 show
the requirements for new tea.chers assuming a pupil-teacher ratio constant at
the 1985/86 value of 65:1, while the last three rows assume a gradual decline
in the pupil-teacher ratio from 65:1 in 1985/86 to 61:1 in 1992/93. The
three different levels of enrollment growth illustrate, respectively, the



- 50 -                             ANNEX 2-8
Page 5 of 5
implications of achieving during 1986-1993 average annual enrollment growth
rates of (a) 2% or less than the growth of the 7-12 year population (assumed
to be 2.5%); (b) 3a which would be equivalent to holding the gross primary
enrollment ratio constant at its 1985/86 level of 79%; and (e) 4Z which would
allow a gradual increase in the primary enrollment rate to 86% by 1993.
Table 6 - Demand for New Primary School Touchers 1988-1993
Annual        PuplI-
Enrollmont      Teacher                  -.*New Teachers Required in:
Crowth         RatIo       1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991  1992  1993
2%     Hold constant at    84    87    90    94    98    98   106   110
3%     65:1               147   166   159   181    180   197   203   199
4X                        192   188    194   227   276   290   820   338
2%                         81    89   121   142   174   222   248   260
ax     Reduced gradually   183   170   188   206    260   310   336   346
4%     from 66 to 61      186   230    265   292   390   388   390   400
6.        Balance between demand and supply.  A comparison between the
existing in-service teacher training capacity and the demand for new primary
school teachers shows that:
(a)  if annual enrollment growth were to slow down as low as 2%, there
would be ample capacity to produce new teachers in the numbers
required; this would allow a gradual reduction of the pupil-
teacher ratio;
(b) if enrollments were to grow at 3% p.a., the ENI could meet a sub-
stantial, although declining share of new teacher requirements.
The same conclusion would hold true under a 4% growth assumption,
but the resulting gap would be larger. The gap could be filled
without creating additional teacher training capacity, through a
package of actions combining: (i) reassignment of non-teaching
staff into the classroom; (ii) recruitment, from other sources and
at levels below that of instituteur, for instance, among university
graduates following accelerated training at CNFC; (iii) extension
of the number of hours taught by teachers. The action plan to be
agreed upon each year between the Government and the Bank would
include monitorable criteria for objective (i) as of PYI, and for
objectives (ii) and (iii) as of PY2.
In conclusion, the above shows that the existing pre-service training
capacity for primary school teachers, combined with measures to rationalize
the use of teaching/personnel, will be sufficient to meet the country's
needs for such staff during the period considered. Growth rate during
1980-86 was 0.75%, but this is well below the long-term trend, which is
closer to the 2.5% projected for 1985-1990.



- 51 -                          ANNEX 2-9
Page 1 of 7
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS OF EDUCATIONAL POLICIES
1.        Background.  During the preparation and appraisal of the current
project, the education sector dialogue between the Bank Group and the
Central African Republic included a detailed examination of the financial
implications of alternative policies aimed at improving quality in primary
education. In March 1987, IDA organized a seminar in Bamako for Ministry
of Education Officials from both Mali and the Central African Republic, to
review alternative policies related to primary education, with the help of
an education simulation model developed by the Bank Group. Discussions
centered around the effects on primary enrollments, qualitative efficiency
and unit costs per primary graduate of different policies of: (a) public
sector budget growth; (b) changes in resource allocation between the educa-
tion sector and other sectors; (c) resource allocation within the education
sector and hence between different levels of education; and (d) resource
use designed to change the unit costs of primary education.
2.        Initial data, prepared with assistance of the Bank Group, was
used to identify a base case which reflected the situation in 1985/86 and
1986/87. The base data was examined and refined by the Government team and
agreement reached on the current performance of the education system. The
simulation model was then used to analyze the effect on primary school
enrollment of changes in a wide variety of parameters starting from the
agreed base case. The model allowed changes in the following groups of
parameters: financial/budgetary; teacher inputs; internal performance; and
other pedagogical variables. A summary of the key parameters is given
below:
Financial/budgetary
1.   Annual rate of growth of the Government's recurrent budget;
2.   Share of above devoted to the education sector;
3.   Annual rates of growth for key sub-sectors of the education
system:
(a) higher education (except scholarships)
(b) scholarships
(c) secondary education (general)
(d) primary teacher training
(e) secondary education (technical)
(f) central administration
4.   The proportion of compensation for annual inflation included in
annual salary adjustments; and



- 52 -
ANNEX 2-9
Page 2 of 7
5.   Rate of growth of fixed costs.
Teacher Inputs
6.   Number of hours per week taught by teachers (primary)
7.   Proportion of primary teachers entering the teaching force at the
different grades of:
(a) instituteurs
(b) instituteurs adjoint
(c) agent superieur and others
8.   Proportion of primary teachers changing scale (due to promotion)
at flxed points on the salary scale
9.   The cost of administration per primary teacher.
Internal Performance
10. The repetition and dropout rates at each grade level of the
primary system.
Pedagogical Parameters
11. Cost of materials per student
12. Number of hours of instruction per week received by students
13. Number of pupils per class
3.        Assumptions Behind Simulations.  The share of the country's
resources devoted to the education sector is governed by parameters (1) and
(2); while resource allocation between the different levels and types of
education is controlled by the parameters contained under (3). The general
wages policy in relation to inflation is given in (4). Resource use in
primary education and its effects on the student unit costs are derived
from the remaining parameters. The model applies the budgetary and finan-
cial parameters to its initial values to calculate the residual expenditure
available for primary education. The remaining parameters which measure
the cost of materials per student, the cost of administration per teacher,
and the evolution of the teacher salary costs according to qualifications
and the progression of teachers on the salary scale, are used to calculate
the unit cost per student. The total recurrent budget resources for
primary education are divided by the per student unit costs to arrive at
the primary student enrollment possible with the resources and parameter
values defined in the model. The model also calculates other outputs such
as the primary enrollment ratio, the average number of years of instruction
per graduate, the new entrants into primary schooling, the pupil-teacher
ratio, the teacher requirements, and building investment costs.
4.        Results of Simulations.  Simulations were carried out to analyze
the scope for improving the internal efficiency of primary education while
maintaining the current primary enrollment ratio. The simulations, which



- 53 -
ANNEX 2-9
Page 3 of 7
were aimed at a more effective and efficient use of educational resources,
were made using the educational financing model and were analyzed in two
separate groups. First, the effect of individual changes in the policy
variables on the unit costs/student, unit costs/graduate and total enroll-
ments was examined to determine the sensitivity of the system to individual
parameters and to identify the policy variables with the most leverage.
Second, once the above had been completed, a series of changes in groups of
related policy variables were examined for their cumulative effect on the
system. Table 1 summarizes the results of the changes in the individual
policy variables and shows: (a) changes in the resource levels and the
distribution of resources between different types of education (Simulations
2 and 3); (b) changes in the renumeration and workload of teachers
(Simulations 4 and 5); and changes designed to improve educational quality
and internal efficiency (Simulations 6 through 10).
5.        Simulation 1 of Table 1, which should be considered as the base
case with no policy modifications, shows that if no parameter changes are
made, and if the annual growth rates of the sub-sector budgets have values
equal to the overall growth of the Government's budget, then, not only does
the primary enrollment ratio decline to unacceptable levels, but absolute
primary enrollment decreases. As a result, it is necessary to examine
policy changes which are likely to increase enrollment and hence maintain
the primary enrollment ratio at an acceptable level. Simulations to
examine the effects of a higher rate of growth in the Government's recur-
rent budget are not realistic given the current economic situation. (The
growth parameters for the total Government recurrent expenditure budget are
taken from the IMF April 1987 projections and held constant throughout this
exercise.) Simulation 2 shows the effect of a 10% increase in the
proportion of these resources being allocated to the education sector.
While this simulation manages to increase primary enrollment, the primary
enrollment ratio declines.
6.        Simulation 3 shows that even when all sub-sector budgets except
primary education are frozen, enrollments increase but the primary
enrollment ratio falls by 15%. Hence, it may be concluded that the
possibility of increased resources for education and changes in the
internal distribution of those resources do not prevent a decline in the
primary enrollment ratio, and the way to prevent a decrease in enrollment
and to maintain the enrollment ratio at an acceptable level is to reduce
unit costs per student.
7.        Unit costs per student are composed of three separate elements:
the teaching salary cost, the administrative cost and the materials cost.
The salary cost normally increases automatically as teachers progress
through the civil service pay scales. Simulation 4 shows that a salary
freeze is a powerful policy change and the unit cost/student is very
sensitive to the decline in the real value of the salaries. Another
related measure which reduces unit costs is the "loading" of teachers.  In
Simulation 5, the number of hours taught by teachers is increased by 10%
from its current value of 23.1 hours/week and the number of hours of
instruction received by each class group is reduced to 24.3 hours/week with
a resulting fall in the unit cost/student. Actions to reduce either the
administrative or materials components of the unit cost per student run
contrary to the objectives of the project (improvement of the quality and



- 54 -
ANNEX 2- 9
Page 4 of 7
internal efficiency of primary education). In fact, it seems unreasonable
to bring down the costs per student-year; on the contrary, steps should be
taken to) improve internal efficiency, thereby incurring additional
expenditure. Ttems likely to have a positive effect on the internal
efficiency, include increased pedagogical materials and supplies and a
strengthened and more dynamic school inspectorate. Simulation 8 therefore
indicates the effect of an increase in the cost of administration per
teacher due to an improvement in the activities of the school inspectorates
and their support of primary teachers, and the result of a substantial
increase in the availability of pedagogical materials and supplies. Both
of these qualitative improvements incur a rise in the unit costs per
student. To reinforce the qualitative improvements, to support teachers
and to improve internal efficiency, a reduction in class size is modelled
in Simulation 9 and, as a consequence of all qualitative inputs, the
assumed resulting reduction in internal repetition is simulated in
variation 10.
8.        In Table 2 the individual changes are combined to examine the
cumulative effects of a series of policy changes and the results of four
specific sets of changes. As before, Simulation 1 repeats the base case
values of all parameters with no policy changes. Simulation 2 of Table 2
combines the majority of policy changes needed to bring about a substantial
reduction in the unit costs/student. The changes include: limiting the
growth of sub-sector budgets so that budgetary increases are allocated to
primary education; increasing the hours taught by teachers and reducing the
amount of instruction received per class group to a level of 27 hours per
week; and freezing salaries. The results show that unit costs are
stabilized and primary enrollment more than doubled by the end of the
fifteen-year period. Simulation 3 includes all the above changes plus
additions designed to revitalize the teaching profession: an increase in
supervision and support for teachers with a more dynamic and active primary
inspectorate; the revival of professional exams and advancement for
teachers; and the recruitment of new teachers in a more balanced proportion
between different qualifications; increased expenditure on pedagogical
materials and supplies, and a slight reduction in the average class size.
These qualitative improvements allow the reduction in the repetition rates
of about 40%. Simulation 3 shows an increase in the unit costs/student and
as a consequence, slower growth of total primary enrollments, but more
importantly, a substantial decline in the unit costs per graduate. This
final simulation corrects the results previously obtained by unfreezing the
sub-sector budgets and allowing limited subsector budgetary growth. The
growth of secondary technical education expenditure at a rate above the
norm reflects the increased expenditure resulting from the current AfDB
financed technical and vocational education project. Overall, the compo-
sition of student unit costs has been modified in favor of educational
inputs, the unit costs/graduate has been halved, enrollment has increased
by half as much again and the primary gross enrollment ratio has been
maintained close to its previous high level.



ANNEX 2- 9
Page 5 of 7
Table 1 - Individual Effects of Policy Changes
INDICATORS
% Change
Primary     Unit Costs  Unit Costs  % Change                 Gross    in Gross
Education        per         per      in Unit                Primary    Primary
Budget        Student    Graduate   Costs Per   Primary Enrollment Enrollment
(million CFAF)  (t000 CFAF) ('000 CFAF) Graduate  Enrollment    Ratio       Ratio
Base Year Values 1985/86                                  4.34           14.0         493         -      310,708        78%         -
Results for final year 2000/01
Simulation 1. No policy changes. Real budget
growth equally distributed between all levels. All
other parameters held at their input levels.              7.35          24.6          493        0%      303,252        45%      -48%
Simulation 2.  Budget. (% for education)
Percent of Government budget given to education
increases linearly from 24% to 26.4% in 2000            8.85          24.2          477       -3%      370,959       55%       -29%
Simulation 3.  Budget. (internal distribution)           10.50          24.3          468       -5%      440,135        66%      -15%
All budgets except primary frozen
Simulation 4. (Salary/inflation compensation)
Freeze salaries                                           7.35           20.0         421      -15%      373,757        56%      -28%
Simulation 5. (teacher loading)
Hours taught increased by 10% to 25.4 hrs/week
Hours received reduced by 10% to 24.3 hrs/week          7.35           20.2         417      -15%      368,559        55%      -29%
Simulation 6. (Teacher recruitment)
95% of new teachers instituteurs-adjoint                7.35          23.4          492        0%      316,380       47%       -40%
Simulation 7. (Internal promotion)
2% promoted at step 3 and 3% promoted at step 6
from instituteur adjoint to instituteur                 7.35          24.7          495        0%      302,227       45%       -42%



ANNEX 2-9
Page 6 of 7
INDICATORS
% Change
Primary     Unit Costs  Unit Costs  % Change                  Gross    in Gross
Education        per          per     in Unit                 Primary    Primary
Budget        Student    Graduate   Costs Per   Primary  Enrollment Enrollment
(million CFAF)  ('000 CFAF) ('000 CFAF) Graduate  Enrollment    Ratio         Ratio
Simulation 8. (Cost of administration/inspec-
torates per teacher and cost materials/student)
Increased by 3% p.a.                                     7.35           25.9          505        2%       288,376       43%       -45S°
Simulation 9. (class size)
Class size gradually reduced from 62 to 55               7.35           29.0          510        3%       260,306      3Tr        -50%k
Simulation 10. (internal efficiency)
Repetition rates reduced by 40%                          7.35           24.6          317      -36%/      303,252       45C/s     -42%
Ln
lJ



ANNEX 2-9
Page 7 of 7
Table 2 - Cumulat've Effect of Policy Changes
INDICATORS
% Change
Primary     Unit Costs  Unit Costs % Change                    Gross    in Gross
Education        per          per     in Unit                  Primary    Primary
Budget        Student    Graduate   Costs Per   Pr.mary  Enrollment Enrollment
(million CFAF)  ('000 CFAF) ('000 CFAF) Graduate  Enrollment    Ratio         Ratio
Base year values 1985/86                                   4.34           14.0          493          -      310,708        78P         -
Results for final year 2000/01
Simulation 1.  No policy changes.                           7.35          24.6          493        0%       303,252       45%        -48%
Simulation 2. Cost saving measures: Government
budget growth follows April '87 IMF projection.
Proportion of Government budget for education held
constant at 24%.  Budget reallocations (scholarship
reductions, etc.) Salaries frozen.  Hours taught
27, received 26.5 hours/week. Teacher recruitment
(I 60%, IA 25%, other 15%).                               10.05           15.9          353      -28%2      639,700        96%       23%
Simulation 3. Qualitative improvements: As
Simulation 2 with the addition of qualitative
improvements. Concours prof. Increased super-
vision/administrative costs. Class size reduced,
increased materials, hence decline in repetition.
Limited additional growth allowed for sub-sector
budgets (teacher, sec tech, adm).                           9.85          21.4          263      -46%       473,012        71%       _9%



- 58 -
ANNEX 2-10
Page 1 of 4
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE GOVERNMENT'S EDUCATIONAL STRATEGY
A.   Background
1.        In April 1982, the CAR Government organized a national seminar to
conduct an evaluation of twenty years of post independence educational
experience. On the positive side, it was found that the system had
achieved fairly high primary enrollment ratios (95% for boys, 61% for
girls) and had met its objective of training a cadre of high level adminis-
trators as required for the development of a new nation. However, these
achievements were outweighed by the negative aspects. First, the CAR's
education system, which had been geared to the training of civil servants,
had fueled rural migration and contributed to a disregard for productive
activities, especially agriculture. The system lacked effective orienta-
tion and screening mechanisms, so that most students, regardless of their
individual abilities, were channelled toward the more prestigious, longer
types of training, and the less demanding literary or human sciences
streams (80% in humanities at the baccalaureate level) at the expense of
shorter, more practical types of training and of mathematic and scientific
disciplines. As a result, by 1982 with the civil service saturated, the
nation had large numbers of unemployed generalists, at the same time as a
critical shortage of middle level technicians and managers and even good
skilled workers. Second, the broad coverage in primary education had been
achieved at the expense of quality, which had been left to deteriorate, to
wit excessive cla.s sizes, ill-adapted programs, underqualified teachers --
especially in scientific disciplines -- grossly insufficient operating
allocations, dilapidated facilities and an inefficient administration. The
resulting high repetition rates, poor examination results, and increase in
the number of pupil years required to produce a primary graduate (from 12
in 1971 to 24 in 1986), had led in turn to high costs per graduate, low
labor productivity, a mediocre level of student achievement at all levels
of the system, and graduates' difficulty in finding modern sector jobs.
B.   The 1984 Reform Proposals
2.        The reforms which were proposed to correct this situation
(Ordinance No. 86-031 dated May 14, 1984) aimed at strengthening and
reorienting the educatior. system to adapt it to the needs of the country
and the abilities of individual students, so that each would be equipped to
contribute more fully to the country's socio-economic development. The
central objectives of the reform included:
(a) to extend from six to nine years (5 + 4) the basic education
cycle;
(b) to reduce regional disparities in primary enrollment ratios;



- 59 -
ANNEX 2-10
Page 2 of 4
(c) to increase quality in primary education through a revision of
curricula, introduction of Sangho, the national language, as a
medium of instruction, and of productive work; strengthening the
supply of pedagogic materials and teachers' pre- and in-service
training, rehabilitating facilities;
(d) to diversify the second cycle of basic education into three
streams: general, technical and agricultural; and
(e) for all other levels, to revise curricula.
3.        Considerable attention was devoted to the underlying philo-
sophical principles of the Reform, i.e., developing in the student popula-
tion a sense of creativity, responsibility and private initiatives, as well
as a commitment to hard work. A new teacher profile -- characterized by a
spirit of pedagogic innovation, practical knowledge of the environment and
strong community leadership -- was defined, and a new teacher pre-service
training program was developed. However, there was no indication of how
the Reform would be operationalized; no consideration had been given to its
costs and financial implications and to the linkage with employment and it
soon became clear that the proposed Reform was too broad and too ambitious.
There was a need to: (i) develop a coherent, global view of the sector,
especially with respect to student flows and budgetary allocations;
(ii) prioritize, especially between qualitative and quantitative objectives
and between levels of education; and (iii) formulate for the sector as a
whole, a long-term development plan consisting of well articulated sub-
sectoral categories; each of these should cover policy meaRures, training,
investment and recurrent resource requirements to allow the gradual lifting
of the various constraints -- human, institutional and financial -- in
order to reach the objectives set under (ii). In particular, Government
began to realize tlpt any attempt to revise the contents of the curricula
would be doomed to failure as long as the delivery system (pedagogic
support and control by the inspectors) would remain inoperative.
C.   A More Realistic, Intermediate Strategy
4.        By 1986, Government had recognized that the objectives of the
Reform were long-term in nature and would require a broad, sustained effort
from all the parties involved. For the medium-term, it decided to focus on
rehabilitating the existing system, prior to introducing changes of sub-
stance or to expanding. This rehabilitation approach centered on:
(a) reinforcing quality, especially at the primary level;
(b) strengthening the management and the administration of the sector
through a decentralization process; and
(c) mobilizing the support of all the parties involved -- teachers,
parents and students.
5.        To achieve the quality objective (a), the Government is prepared
to accept a temporary stagnation -- or even a modest decline -- in the
primary enrollment ratio (from 782 in 1987 to 74% in 1993), with expansion
limited to underserved areas and to what is needed to keep up with



- 60 -
ANNEX 2-10
Page 3 of 4
population growth (2.8%). Budgetary (and other) resources will be
concentrated, by level of education, on primary education, and by type of
expenditures, on materials to optimize the utilization of teachers. An
initial increase in unit costs (from 15,000 CFAF to 16,500 CFAF) is
proposed to allow an injection of pedagogic material and to finance the
upgrading of teachers' skills, in turn leading to a reduction of unit costs
per graduate. New curricula are being prepared, but the emphasis will
continue to be on the 3Rs, with the introduction of Sangho temporarily held
up, and productive work only tested on an experimental basis. The new
programs wil' be introduced successively, by grade, starting in PY3, once
inspectors have been retrained, pedagogic materials are ready to be
delivered and a first wave of teachers has received special training to
teach that grade.
6.        The cecentralization process proposed to reach objective (b)
started with the issuance of a new MEN organization chart (Decree No.
86-016 of January 21, 1986), which clearly separated pedagogic from
administrative functions and underlined the Cabinet's role in policy and
strategic matters. Under this new institutional set-up, authority in
routine managemetnt matters will be increasingly delegated from the Cabinet
to directors and ministerial instructions will be transmitted to the field
through a network of inspectorates, five regional academic inspectorates
and 19 primary inspectorates at the district level. Personnel management
(including administrative and inspection ratings) is being tightened in
line with the Public Administration Reform, inspectors will be trained in
administration and management, both at the district and the school levels,
and they will be provided logistical means.
7.        Finally, the need to develop a partnership between local communi-
ties, MEN personnel in the administration and at the institution level and
students (i.e., objective (c)) is dictated not only by financial, but also
by social considerations. In the present context of fiscal austerity, an
increase in the total government recurrent budget or in the already high
(24%) share going to education is very unlikely, hence the need to raise
additional resources in the form of contributions from parents' associa-
tions (APEs). Beyond this, however, there is a need to convince parents
that the ultimate beneficiaries of a dynamic and relevant education system
are their children, whose future is at stake. The Ministry has therefore
engaged in a sensitization campaign to mobilize local communities and APEs,
arguing that self-help, careful management of such scarce resources as
school facilities or textbooks, as well as a responsible financial
behavior, are the best wzys for the CAR education sector to regain credi-
bility and attract external support from bilateral and multilateral
sources. New administrative arrangements are being put into place at the
school level to reflect these new roles. However, in order not to
jeopardize educational development in areas of lesser parental concern and
support, Government will continue to finance the basic civil works and
materials package necessary for minimal operating conditions while the
community will provide the supplementary items.
8.        All the objectives set out for other levels of the sector reflect
the same spirit of rehabilitation and consolidation, self-help, discipline
and rigor and have been articulated into a "schema de coherence". They
include, for secondary education, increased selectivity and the



- 61 -
ANNEX 2-10
Page 4 of 4
strengthening of teachers' skills, especially in scientific disciplines;
for higher education, a reduction in student numbers, improved orientation
towards the most needed disciplines through the use of scholarships and
quotas, and a new emphasis on short, technical training streams to respond
flexibly to evolving labor market needs. In an effort to alleviate the
burden of MEN, a new Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
was created in 1986, to oversee the university sector, while vocational
training -- also in the process of being reorganized -- was placed under
the authority of the Ministry of Civil Service and Labor. This entails a
risk of fragmentation of the sectoral management perspective, and will
require new coordination mechanisms, which are being developed. Finally,
Government plans to formulate, in the years ahead, detailed subsectoral
strategies for secondary, higher, vocational/technical education which will
be submitted to the donors at UNDP Round Tables.
9.        The above strategy will take courage and determination to be
implemented, and results may be less than spectacular. However, the
Government realizes that the country has no other option, given the crisis
situation in the sector and the scarcity of national resources and aid
flows, but to restore efficient operating conditions in order to achieve
more within the present constraints, and to subsequently attract external
resources when conditions are ripe to move to the next phase. In the
meantime, the realism and clear sense of purpose of the Minister, the high
quality and commitment of the Minister's Cabinet, and their reliance on a
systematic, carefully planned approach, are major assets for the successful
outcome of this long-term endeavor.



- 62 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 7
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ACTION PLAN AND ANNUAL REVIEW PROGRAM
1.        Background.  The budgetary situation in the CAR deteriorated
rapidly during the 1970s and the early 1980s, mainly because of a severe
imbalance between the level of public revenues (which were limited) and the
public sector recruitment/employment policy (which guaranteed employment
for graduates, thereby growing much faster than the revenue). Since 1982,
the Government's economic policy has attempted to correct the situation,
but in order to re-establish economic growth, certain basic policies will
have to be pursued for some years to come. These include: (a) a reduction
of the budget deficit; (b) an increase in public sector non-salary expendi-
tures to allow minimum efficient operations; and (c) reduction of the
proportion of public expenditures in the GDP to stimulate savings and
productive investments. The CAR has adopted a policy of gradually reducing
public sector recurrent expenditures with a view ;.o increasing investments
(today, close to zero) and reducing debt service. This policy has as its
consequence, to reduce the proportion of public sector recurrent
expenditures in GDP from 12% in 1986 to 9.5% in 1991. The GDP is projected
to grow at a little over 8% p.a. in current prices, and the inflation rate
is estimated as 4.5% during the same period. Because of the projected fall
in the proportion of public sector recurrent expenditures in GDP, the
recurrent budget is expected to evolve from 36.9 billion CFAF in 1987 to
43.6 billion CFAF in 1993 (current prices). This nominal increase of 18%
corresponds in reality to a fall of 9.2% in constant prices.
2.        Objectives.  This project, aimed at improving the quality aid
efficiency of schooling, especially at the primary level, would support the
implementation of the Government's education policy in the context of its
structural adjustment program. To ensure that sufficient resources are
available for the qualitative improvements which are the project's key
objectives and that these resources are optimally allocated, the Government
and IDA would discuss and agree upon a three-year rolling Action Plan to be
monitored each year at a joint Government/IDA review. The Action Plan
would consist of, sector budgetary targets; the scholarship program and
budget; of staffing and pedagogical targets; and the monitoring of project
implication (specifically: the in-service training plan, the annual
classroom rehabilitation and maintenance program, and the personal plan).
As a three-year rolling plan, it would provide detailed values of the
quantitative and qualitative performance indicators together with specific
actions for the first year, and it would outline the indicative targets and
a work program for the remaining two years of the period. Details of the
contents of the Action Plan, are provided in the Table 1.



AINNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 7
Table I - Action Program
!teasures                                                                      Action Program and Performance Criteria
Guiding Principles                                      Susmary Action Plan or Indicator 1/
1. Zsatablish targets and ceilings for educa-                    Review the annual investment program for the education
tional sector budgetary growth and                            sector.
distribution
Honitor the proportion of the Government recurrent               (See detalls in Table 2)
budget allocated to the sector to ensure an                      Current (1987) propotion of the total Government
appropriate budgetary allocation,                                recurrent budget is estimated as 242.  Monitor
this percentage annually to ensure an allocation
satisfactory to the Association. 2/
Raise the proportion of the education sector                     1987 value of 51.7% raised by 1.2% p.a. to a
recurrent budget allocated to primary                            value of 592. 3/
schoolintg.
Increase the propurtion of expenditure on                        1987 value is 2.42 raised by 0.8% p.a. to a
pedagogical materials and supplies in the                        figure of 72. 4/
education sector budget.
2. Revise the scholarehip budget and progrsm.                    Reduce the proportion of Government recurrent                     1987 value 16.42 reduced by 1.42 p.a. to a
expenditure on schsolarships.                                    1993 value of 92. 5t
Focus Government funded sebolarships on key                      Details of the proposed quota system together
scientific, technological and managerial                         vith preparation of new texts governing
fields,                                                          scholarships (age of students, fields of
study, duration of studies). 
Transition Phase: Continuation of the
elimination of fraud, double payments,
repetitions to reduce scholarship expenditure
by 52 in 1988.
Final Phase: Introduction and Implementation
of revised criteria and program which relates
directly to employment prospects and econoutc
requirements.
3. Introduce Staffing and Pedagogical Targets, and               Reduce the proportion of non-teachers in the                      1987 value of 11Z of education staff are non-
monitor project implementation.                               education sector personnel by redeployment and                   teachers reduce by 0.62 p.s. to a 1993 value
retraining,                                                      of 72.  Newv recruitment in line with the 1:3
rule.
Monitor enrollment targets and student flows at                  Strictly apply recruitment procedures and
the primary and secondary level and control                      criteria to el1minate ilicit or parallel
student numbers to improve educational quality,                  inscriptions.  Limit the number of repetitions
allowed prior to exclusion to a maximum of two
Monitor the implementation of the in-service                     years at any level, limit the number of hours
teacher training program and the planned                         devoted to non-examination subjects to 102 of
reduction in the average size of primary class from              the veeltly timetable in the final two years of
62 to 55 by 1993/94                                              each level of schooling.
lhe objectives as quantified and detailed by the key indicators are simple to calculate.  The progress towards the stated targets can be more rapid than that outlined
above. However, If intermediate targets are more than one full pereentage point away (in the wrong direction) from the annual intermediate targets, then the progress
shall be examined in more dietail to determine whether progress is in default of the Action Plan.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 7
I/   The detailed Indicators can be calculated on the basis of the following informDation.  The education sector recurrent expenditure budget is dispersed to six
different budgetary chapters as follows:  chapter 12, which gives the breakdown of the higher education expenditures; chapter 16 the most important. which contains
the expenditutes of the MEN; chapter 19, which contains 670 millions CFAF in 19B7 for the salaries of 1359 'stagiatres contractuels" of whom 775 work is education
for an annual cost of 385 millions CFAF; chapter 36, which contains the transport costs for students studying on scholarships abroad (120 millions CFAF); chapter
39, which covers the scholarship costs at both the final year of secondary school and the higher education scholarships (in 1987 this allocation is exceptionally
large because of arrears accumulated from the previous year.  However, adjusting for a total of 12 months, the 1987 scholarship budget is estimated at 1260
millions CFAF); and finally, chapter 38, whtich. until 1986. contained the contributions paid by the CAR to foreign Institutions which accept Central Africsn
students (the estimated annual expenditure has been around 100 fillions CFAF. the budgetarv allocation 66 millions CFAF, but the actual recent expenditures only
about sn millions CFAF.  in 1987, this item has been placed in chapter 39:  scholarships).  The addition of the above six items gives the total recurrent public
sector educational expenditure. In 1985, this was equivalent to 25.4% of the public sector recurrent hudget.
21   The calculation of the proportion of the Government recurrent budget allocated to the education sector is as follows.  The Government recurrent budget is the total
of all operating co)sts with external debt service, interest and principal repayment excluded.  The education sector expenditure is the sum of the following budget
headings: chapter 12, higher education (total); chapter 16, national education (total); chapter 19, communal expenses (proportion of line "stagialres
contractuels" for education personnel); chapter 36. transport costs for students; and chapter 30, scholarships (total). See details in note 1.
31   The calcutation of the proportion of the total Government recurrent expenditure allocated to primary education is as follows:  the e4ticatior sector expenditures is
as dr5ined above In note 2; primary expenditure is obtained by examining the relevant portions of chnapter 16 and adding the proportion of chapter 19 corresponding
t  t'he "strgiaires contractuele" wvF  work in primary education (the majority).
4/   The calculation of the proportion of the Government recurrent budget spent on materials is as follows:  the education sector expenditure is as defined above in
note 1; materials expenditure is obtained by examining in detail the budget lines of chapters 12 and 16 which refer to materials expenditure. Current practice has
the university restaurant, and the payment of temporary and some part-time staff arbitrarily classified under materials expenditure. These expenditures should be
excluded from the calculation of the materials expenditures.
51   The calculatlon of the proportion of the scholarships in the total education recurrent expenditure is as follows:  the education sector expenditure is as defined
above in note 1; the scholarship expenditure is the sum of chapter 36, transport costs for students and chapter 39, scholarships (total). in the budgetary targets
proposed above, the objective can be reached without making major modifications to the number of scholarship holders at the t'niversity of Bangui, but rather by
reducing by 2/3 the numbers in France (from 425 to 161) and by 1/4 those studying in neighboring countries (fromn 221 to 150).  The total number of scholarships
will fall by 16? oi% condition that there is no revision of the value of an individual scholarship (the last substantial revision was in 1986, hence one should not
be required in the period under examination).                                                                                                                                                              Cs



- 65 -                     ANNEX 3-1
Page 4 of 7
The education sector budget is dispersed over six different chapters of the
Government budget. However, when all the relevant expenditures are added
together, the total educational expenditure in 1985 was 25.4% of Government
recurrent expenditures. The distribution of sector expenditures, in
percentage terms, by level of education and by nature of the expense havre
been projected over the six years of active project implementation and are
attached in Table 2. These targets are to provide guidance to the inter-
mediate stages in the Action Plan and are subject to revision during
implementation.
3.        Mechanism.  While substantial improvements in the quality and
efficiency of the education process are the major objective of the project,
changes in the internal budgetary allocation of the sector and educational
expenditures are seen as esserIcial means of achieving this objective. As a
result, financial and budgetary aspects of the project are emphasized in
the project conditionality. Given the importance attached to this condi-
tionality, and the seriousness of the consequences of the non-respect of
such conditionality (the possible suspension of credit disbursements), the
Action Plan would be monitored annually, throughout the life of the project
at joint meetings of the Government and IDA. The objective of the annual
review would be to monitor the progress made during the previous year on
the key indicators defined at prior reviews and to agree on the details of
a program for the continued disbursement of the credit during the following
year. To accomplish this task, the review process would: (a) examine
critical annual performance indicators, as defined and quantified at the
previous review; (b) agree upon the targets to be adopted for the following
year, the means of achieving these targets, and the quantitative indicators
that will be monitored at the next annual review; (c) list the indicators,
together with their indicative values, for the remaining two years of the
rolling three-year period; (d) agree upon the content of the investment
program; and (e) examine the potential use of credit funds, inside the
existing project description, which become available as project
implementation proceeds.
4.        Administration and Management.  The review committee of the
Government will be a small group of government officers from the policy and
decision levels of the following Ministries and departments: (a) Economy
and Finance; (b) National Education; (c) University of Bangui; (d) National
Scholarship Service; and (e) Plan. Each Ministry or department will be
represented at the decision or policy level by one member. Given the
importance of financial issues contained in the review, its scope (which
spreads over the two education ministries and the scholarship service
located in the Presidency), the chairmanship of the review committee will
be with the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The review committee will
meet at least four times per year: once before the review in order to
examine the review documentation and prepare for the joint meeting; once
with IDA to undertake the annual review; and once after the joint meeting
to finalize any adjustments required for the year to follow. The
secretariat of the review committee will be assured by the Project Director
and the Assistant Director of the Project Coordination Unit. The review
committee will not have the responsibility for overseeing the general or
day-to-day management of the project, but will limit its role to the
monitoring of the global project conditionality. Full responsibility for
the regular implementation of the project rests with the Project



- 66 -                     ANNEX 3-1
Page 5 of 7
Coordination Unit and, through it, with the individual directorates
implementing the various project components.
5.        ReRorting and Documentation.  The secretariat of the review com-
mittee will prepare the necessary documentation for the joint annual review
between IDA and Government. This documentation will be short, concise and
aggregate, while covering the total education sector. The report will
focus on the three main areas described in Table 1 (budgetary targets and
real expenditures; the scholarship program, the quotas based on subject
orientation and the scholarship budget and expenditure; and staffing and
pedagogical targets). It should contain two major sections: (i) a brief
historical analysis on the performance during the previous 12 months; and
(ii) detailed proposals of the objectives and means to be adopted for the
next 12 months, together with global proposals for the remaining two years
of the three-year rolling Action Plan. It should not exceed four pages in
length and, where possible, should be presented in tabular form. An
outline of the draft Action Plan and its presentational framework is
provided in Table 3. This will be completed with the indicative values of
the critical indicators at negotiations.
6.        Means and Costs.  The operating costs of the Government review
committee will be extremely limited. The project will provide indemnities
for the five members of the review committee; all other inputs, such as the
preparation of the annual review documentation and incidental expenses
related to the joint annual review and the operation of the review secre-
tariat, are funded by the project under the PCU component.



- 67 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 6 of 7
Table 2 - Percentage Distribution of Sector Expenditures
Year                                    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Budget total ('000 FCFA current)    36,900  38,900  38,200  38,700  39,900  41,700  43,600  45,500
% of Government budget on education   24.1    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0
By level of education:
Primary                               51.7    52.9    54.1    55.2    56.4    57.6    58.8    60.0
Secondary                             16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0
Higher                                23.3    22.6    21.8    21.1    20.3    19.5    18.8    18.0
Administration                         4.4      4.4      4.4     4.4      4.4      4.4     4.4      4.4
Other                                  4.5      4.1      3.7     3.3      2.9      2.4     2.0      1.6
Total                                  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
By type of expenditure:
Material                                2.4     3.2      4.0     4.8      5.6      6.3     7.1      7.9
Salaries                              80.0    80.6    81.1    81.7    82.2    82.5    82.7    83.0
Scholarships                          16.3    14.9    13.5    12.2    11.0    10.0         9.0      8.1
Others                                 1.4      1.4      1.3     1.3      1.3      1.2     1.1      1.1
Total                                   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
By type and level:
Primary
Material                               1.6      2.2      2.9     3.5      4.1     4.7      5.4      6.0
Salaries                              98.4    97.8    97.1    96.5    95.9    95.3    94.6    94.0
Scholarships                           0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Others                                 0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Total                                   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Secondary
Material                               4.1      5.0      5.8     6.7      7.5      8.3     9.2    10.0
Salaries                              90.9    91.3    91.7    92.1    92.5    91.7    90.8    90.0
Scholarships                           4.9      3.7      2.5     1.2      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Others                                 0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Total                                  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   I00.0
Higher
Material                                2.7     4.1      5.4     6.7      8.0      9.4    10.7    12.0
Salaries                              25.0    26.9    28.7    30.6    32.4    34.3    36.1    38.0
Scho1arships                          66.4    63.3    60.3    57.2    54.2    51.1    48.1    45.0
Others                                  5.8     5.7      5.6     5.5      5.4      5.2     5.1      5.0
Total                                  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Administration
Material                               6.1      6.9      7.8     8.6      9.5    10.3    11.2    12.0
Salaries                              93.9    93.0    92.2    91.4    90.5    89.7    88.8    88.0
Scholarships                           0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Others                                 0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Total                                   100.0   00.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Others
Material                               0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Salaries                              99.9    98.5    97.1    95.7    94.3    92.8    91.4    90.0
Scholarships                           0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Others                                 0.0      1.4      2.9     4.3      5.7      7.1     8.6    10.0
Total                                  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0



- 68 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 7 of 7
Table 3 - Indicative Contents of the Draft Action Plans
1.   Sector Budgetary Targets:
(a) Monitor the proportions of the total Government recurrent budget
allocated to the education sector to ensure that an appropriate
allocation satisfactory to the Association is programmed for each
year of the project;
(b) Raise the proportion of the education sector recurrent budget
allocated to primary education;
(c) Raise the proportion of the education sector recurrent budget
allocated on pedagogical materials and supplies;
(d) Reduce the proportion of the education sector recurrent budget
allocated on scholarships;
(e) Monitor the education sector investment budget.
2.   Scholarships.  Taking into account the reduced allocation resulting
from (1.d) above; propose an annual breakdown of the total number of
scholarships by:
(a) subject grouping (Sciences and Humanities);
(b) level of studies (lst, 2rd, or 3rd levels);
(c) location of studies (France, Other foreign, CAR)
The breakdown should indicate both the number and percentage of total
scholarships broken down by the above categories.
3.   In-Service Training Program.  The action plan should update and revise
the schedule of the training provided in Table 3 of Annex 3-2. In addi-
tion, the reduction of the average primary school class size should be
programmed to take into account the planned reduction from 62 to 55 by
1993/94.
4.   Personnal Plan.  The proportion of non-teachers in the education
sector personnel should be reduced from 11% to 7% by 1993/94; this will be
achieved through the redeployment of administrative staff to teaching
duties (predominantly at secondary education). In addition, new recruit-
ment should take place to keep pace with the planned expansion of the
primary enrollments. The annual programming of the above should be
presented as follows:
(a) Transfer to the classroom: Surveillanc General, others.
(b) Leaving service: (i) Retirements; (ii) Expatriates end of
conttact; (iii) Elemination of personnel permanently studying;
(iv) Medical reasons; (v) Transfer to the Bangue de lersonnel.
(c) Recruitement: (i) Staigaires contractuels; (ii) Others
5.   School Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program:  The action plan should
update and revise the physical implementation plan contained on pages 17,
18 and 19 of Annex 3-4.



- 69 -                          ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 16
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPORT FOR THE RETRAINING OF THE PRIMARY TEACHING FORCE
1.        Background.  Although only about 62% of CAR's primary teachers
are considered qualified by national standards (i.e. having a rank of
instituteur-adjoint or instituteur), for lack of resources in 1980 all in-
service training activities were discontinued, resulting in a degradation
of the basic and professional skills of teaching personnel. While the
qualification profile of the teaching corps improved during the 1975-85
period, the standards were somewhat relaxed to meet a fast growing demand
for teachers. In addition, due to insufficient supervision and frozen
salaries, teacher motivation, professionalism and status, have dropped,
leading to absenteeism, lack of innovation and research In classroom
practices and loose monitoring of student achievement. Such a deteriora-
tion is all the more worrisome that the 1984 Education Reform defined a new
teacher profile which calls for a leadership role and a more active partic-
ipation of teachers in the development process.
2.        This trend has had a negative impact on the quality of education,
in turn carrying a high social and financial cost in terms of resources
spent on students who dropout, graduates who are not readily employable and
the low efficiency of the civil service. To reverse this deterioration,
the Government is initiating a threefold strategy. First, it proposes to
strengthen teacher pre-service training and to reinstate in-service
training. To that end, in 1986, one of the country's two primary teacher
training colleges (Bangui) was transformed into a National Center for
continued upgrading (Centre National de Formation Continue - CNFC), the
apex of a network of 7 regional pedagogic centers (Centres pedagogiques
regionaux - CPR). Second, the role of inspectorates as the Ministry's
field representatives will be reinforced. To that effect, a special
program was started at CNFC with the assistance of the French Fonds d'aide
et de cooperation (FAC) to retrain, over a three-year period, CAR's five
academic inspectors, 36 primary inspectors (out of 50) and the 70 pedagogic
advisors. Those primary inspectors and the pedagogic advisors based at the
CPRs will in turn conduct in-service training for school directors and
teachers. Those in charge of school inspection will also provide better
pedagogic control and support, thanks to an increased availability of
logistical means. Third, it is proposed to sequentially regain control of
the educational process in each of the six grades of the primary cycle
(grades I and II in 1988 and 1989, III and IV in 1990 and 1991, V and VI in
1992 and 1993) through the combined effect of grade-specific teacher
retraining and an increased supply of (FAC financed) pedagogic material.
3.        Obiectives.  In support of the above rehabilitation strategy,
this component aims principally at raising the quality of existing
teachers, a prerequisite to a successful implementation of the Reform. It
would also provide a cost-effective alternative to the 'instituteurs only'
option, to be examined when the Government conducts its forthcoming



- 70 -                          ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 16
regrading exercise of the whole civil service in 1988. Shorter term
objectives are:
(i) in light of the recent redefinition of teachers' profile and
role, to evaluate experience with, and the contents of, the pre-
service teacher training program established in 1984 and make
proposals for its improvement, to be implemented by the start of
the 1988/89 school year;
(ii) to reinforce the quality of pedagogic control, supervision and
support provided to the primary schools by the inspectorates;
(iii) to improve primary school timetables and management practices at
the primary school level through an in-service training program
reaching about 845 school directors (about 84X of the total);
(iv) to reinstate a regular in-service program to upgrade the basic
and professional skills of about 965 experienced but under-
qualified agents superieurs and agents, and 1,733 instituteurs or
institutours-adjoints, i.e. respectively 54 and 622 of these
categories;
(v) to motivate teachers to continuously upgrade their skills; and
(vi) during PY1, to develop concrete proposals to imiprove efficiency
in a number of problem areas such as teachers' career stream and
a more intensive use of human and physical resources.
4.        Required outcomes.  Coupled with textbook provision, this
component is expected to have a synergetic impact on thz effectiveness of
the teaching process. This will (i) raise internal efficiency, thereby
reducing unit costs per graduate by at least 6.5% and as much as 42Z (under
the combined effect of a reduction in dropout/repeater rates and improved
final pass rates); (ii) deepen skills acquisition by students, thereby
improving external efficiency since graduates will be more readily employ-
able or trainable (at present new graduates frequently remain unemployed
for 1-3 years because of the lack of employment possibilities); (iii) equip
the teachers to play the more active role expected of them under the
Reform; (iv) improve the delivery of educational services, and through an
optimised primary school timetable promote a gradual reduction in the
average class-size, thus increasing the chances of success of any
subsequent curricula changes; (v) reduce the need to resort to the more
expensive 'instituteurs"; and (vi) improve staff morale, since in-service
training would be linked to encouraging professional advancement
opportunities (cf. para 8).
5.        Strategy.  This component will take as a starting point the
recommendations of a series of recent MEN seminars on the implications of
the 1984 Reform. This Reform, rhich aims at increasing the relevance of
the education system to the local environment, calls for teachers to take
more initiative and exercise community development leadership. In
actuality, it has largely remained a dead letter because its implementation
would require individuals with stronger basic skills and more practical
experience and a more efficient planning and management system. The



- 71 -                          ANNEX 3-2
Page 3 of 16
project will approach these sets of constraints in a systematic manner. As
shown in Table 1 at the end of this Annex, during a first phase (PY1 and
2), it will support a series of workshops, seminars and task forces for key
personnel involved in the management of primary teacher training, the
delivery of educational services and primary school operation. These
activities will: (i) help to adapt pre-service training to the require-
ments of the Reform; (ii) emphasize efficient management and administration
at the school level and prepare the inspectors and pedagogic advisors to
conduct in-service training at the CPRs (this sub-component to include
scholarships abroad for 2 and a study tour for 3); and (iii) lead to
concrete proposals on matters requiring further technical analysis or a
political consensus, e.g., confirmation procedure, the status and training
needs of practice school staff, changes in the school calendar, etc.
6.        The second phase (PY2-PY5) will consist of the in-service
training program itself (details in Table 2). Each year, for each CPR, the
program will include one three-week session for school directors and 3
quarterly modular sessions for primary school teachers (eleven weeks for
agents, superieurs/agents and seven weeks for instituteurs/instituteurs-
adjoints). The subjects covered will echo key themes of the project such
as organization and the school timetable, personnel management, school
maintenance, use and care of textbooks. For directors, the emphasis would
be on the management of financial, human and physical resources. For
teachers, the training sessions would include a remedial program in basic
disciplines, a refresher course in pedagogic techniques, classroom practice
and grade specific approaches.
7.        Although the Program will be offered eventually at the 7 CPRs
(plus CNFC, in Bangui), it would be started on a staggered basis, beginning
with the regions of Project concentration (Bambari in Ouaka, Bangassou in
Mbomou# Bangui-ville and CNFC) in PY2 (school year 1988-89). At the end of
this first experimental year, an evaluation would be conducted at CNFC and
the program would be revised as needed before being extended to two more
regions in PY3 (Berberati and Bouar, serving the western part of the
country) and two more in PY4 (Bossangoa and Kaga Bandoro, serving the
northern part). Although CPRs have a nom.nal capacity of 50, to ensure
quality the size of the groups would be limited to a maximum of 25 the
first year, and of 35 subsequently. The national in-service training
program and background documentation, as well as general principles
governing implementation, were developed during preparation by CNFC, under
the supervision of DRPFE. However, each CPR would have a measure of
freedom to adapt the program to the local circumstances and environment and
to produce its own complementary background documentation. By June 30 each
year every regional individual program, including detailed plans for
logistical organization (size and profile of the groups, precise arrange-
ments for the replacement of participants, payment of per diem, transport)
would be submitted for approval, together with a detailed budget, to a CPR
coordinating unit to be created at CNFC. In turn, by July 30 each year,
CNFC would submit to IDA for review a proposal for the national program.
The CPRs would receive equipment and furniture as needed. Tables 3 and 4
provide details on and a summary of the numbers retrained.
8.        To encourage the teaching staff to undertake in-service training,
the project would help Government to reinstate the "concours professionnel"



- 72 -                          ANNEX 3-2
Page 4 of 16
(professional competitive exam) in 1991, which would allow 15 teachei p.a.
to be upgraded by one level. Prerequisites for taking the exam would be at
least 5 years teaching experience, satisfactory inspection ratings for the
previous three years and successful completion of one in-service training
course in che five previous years. Because of these conditions and because
the resulting salary bill implications will have to oe agreed with the IMF
(whose program presently includes a freeze on promotion-related salary
increases) the first competitive exam is not expected to take place until
1990. This question will therefore be examined at the mid-term review.
9.        In support of on-site training, and for all teachers interested
in continued upgrading of their skills, three types of activities would be
undertaken.  First, a radio in-service training program would be set up.
The program, to follow closely the CPR in-service curriculum, would be
developed in 1988 by INRAP's Educational Radio and TV Department, with
technical assistance. Broadcasting would start in October 1988, at the
same time as the CPR training cycle. Every month, six half-hour periods
would be aired for a teacher audience, plus one for directors and one for
inspectors/pedagogic advisors. Each program would be repeated once, to
reach a maximum number of listeners. Second, feedback to the CPRs would be
encouraged and discussed at Regional workshops (Journees pedagogiques
regionales, 2 days/year) which had been discontinued in the early eighties
but would be revived in the three regions of project focus (Ouaka, Mbomou
and Bangui-ville). The results of these sessions would be summarized in
each CPR's quarterly Pedagogic Liaison bulletin, and sent to CNFC for
distribution to the whole CPR network. Third, a correspondence in-service
training system would be tested in Ouaka, which is one of the project areas
and has a large pool of pedagogic resources (CPR + ENI Bambari). The
program would be based on a monthly correspondence liaison between the CPR
and individual teachers participating on a voluntary basis. It will be
evaluated at Bambari's CPR after one year and, if warranted, will be
gradually extended on the same geographically phased basis as the in-
service training program. IDA will provide a small budget for the initial
experiment (and subsequently will assist Government in mobilizing financial
support from other donors for its extension).
10.       Finally, the whole pre- and in-service training program would be
evaluated at mid-course (PY4) with the assistance of independent
specialists in order to: (i) draw the lessons of experience; (ii) revise
the program as needed; and (iii) define a mechanism to turn it into a
permanent f2ature of the CAR education system. This will include securing
new sources of funding for the post-project period.
11.       Coordination and management.  Responsibility for coordinating and
managing the above tasks will rest with the Directorate for Pedagogic
Research and Teacher Training (Direction de la Recherche Pedagogique et de
la Formation des Enseignants - DRPFE) through a Technical Co-mission for
the planning and programming of pre- and in-service training (Commission
Technique de Planification et de Programmation de la Formation Initiale et
Continue - CTPF). This Commiss'on, consisting of high level personnel from
the Ministry of Education, especially the General Directorate of Education
(Direction Generale des Enseignements), the General Inspectorate, INRAP,
ENI, and CNFC, was created during project preparation to define the
objectives and contents of the program, which will be presented at a



- 73 -                     ANNEX 3-2
Page 5 of 16
national trainers seminar (summer 1987). Key members of the Commi4sion
will be selected to form two task forces which will be enlarged on an ad
hoc basis by national specialists and short-term consultants to submit
proposals for the revision of pre-service training, and for improvements in
teacher career stream and educational resource use. The national training
program will be prepared by CNFC, INRAP, and LNI staff, then adapted and
delivered by CPR inspectors and pedagogic advisors. A CPR coordination
unit will be created in CNFC to provide guidance and support to the CPRs,
exercise quality control at the beginning of each school year, dissMninate
and analyze the results of each regional program and ensure liaisol between
DRPFE and the field.
12.       Costs.  The detailed item costs given in the DATGEN haz served
as a basis to calculate an average cost per man/day for both staff and
participants. Differences between the various activities reflect the
number of staff involved, duration, locatior of activity, and the use of
various types of staff (civil servants, local consultants, international
consultants).



ANNEX 3-2
Page 6 of 16
TABLE I - PRE- AND IN-SERiC.t TttAININ. tmIR PRiMARY EDUCATION V'EkSONNEL - SI'ECIALIS1 WIORKSHOPS AND SEML4AXtS PROGRAi
Title                       Lt-pUst evaluation of experience             Task torce for the revision of pro-          Seminar on regional atd                    Task force fur the revialo  of, or
with the pre-strvice primary                service teacher training                     district management of                     Introduction ot. new procLtlures In
teacher tralning program.                   curriculum,                                  education for inspectorates.               a number of key educjtional areab.
hJeL t ve.s
1. Matn objective           AJapt.tion ot the teacber training           Preparation of a rrvised teacher             Improve eaocher and schLol                 Decalled proposhlb c.mcerntng;
sybtem to the new definition of             training curriculum.                         management.                                - teachers' carrer stream
teachers' prof ji  and role.                                                                                                       - Improved resource use
Z. Sub-nl.iecttve                                                        Revitsion of tbe exaainat0.' and             Take btock of recent experience and    N.A.
certification syllabi.                      follow-up tralning to adopt ouper-
vision, support soad control to
1Et 's new personnel management
policy,
3. hkquireJ outcome          tdetttiitcatlot of task farce.              Revtied pat-service t..Lier                  Increose efficlency of the inspec-         - For teacher -te r stream:
trainittg curriculum, teacher               torates In the provision of                   joint propobnls with MEN's
eaination and certiflct.on                 educational betvicas and the                  Personnel Directorate. and
system.                                     lmplementatlon of tae Reform.                 subsequent implemantatton.
- For resource use; more efficient
utilzeation of teachers. ttee and
facilities.
lisatruttioPnl Program
1. Key topics               Revtsed curriculum. new tcaching             T. be detertult,ed by the ex-post            - Administration:                          - For career stream:  principle and
methods,  ultigrade and double-             evaluation workshop.                             Pedagogic evaludtion, control            modalitie. for introducing the
shift teaching techniques.                                                                   and support                              "concours profeasionnet'. a
Retauurce use. lucluding ncre of         "conftrmation' procedure end
textbookbs  school organizatton          stricter Inspection procedureb.
and rimetabling. role of               - For resource use:  flexible
teachers to preventive                   approaches to the school
tantenance                               calender. *taff redeployment.
- Management:                                more intanaive use of classrooms
School Inspection and notation           end more effectlive pedagogic
procedures                               liteton.
School and personnel management
(Includling sanctions. controle
and penalttes)
2. Subsidiary topics        - ExaminAtion and certification              - Defirittion of a trattisig progiam         - Role of teacher In developing            N.A.
proc.lures.                                 for practice bchool staft (to be             pedagogic material, encouraging
- Role and tr.inlng need, ot                  financed by another donor).                  student itnitiative, promoting
practice school staff.                                                                   comeunity development and
exercising cointuity leadership
around specific themes.
- Proposed in-service training
program at the CPR.
Delivery
1. Management               Directorate ot pedagogic research            National tasktorce memberb (4)               CNFC                                       Nattonal cakiforce memb.rs (4)
and teachetr training (DRPFE), MEN.         Including the general Inspector.                                                        including the Ceneral Inspector.



ANNEX 3-2
Page 7 of 16
2. Preparation              One staff from Directorate of               Do* international consultant for a         One staff from DRPF. two staff             Two ahort-term International
Pedagogic keasareb (CbC). two              total of two enenmothn.                     from ChFC and one frao  ul4, ome           consultants, one month for eacb key
tetff froe Ehl and ose trom aSS for                                                    staff from E#l for two week. In            toptc. in cloe liaison wttb DEF.
five days  n 1988 *nd 1991.                                                            19W6. two daya to 1989 *ad 1990.          D2tre. Personnel Diroctorate and
lospectoratoe  (generat aod
acodesic).
3. Delivery                 Two of the above four staff plus            N.A.                                       Two ot the above five staff plus           N.A.
two outelde speaker. (NO).                                                             two rutnide  speakers.
Particlpanits
1. Ptotfie                  DkrFE staff; Professional staff of          N.A.                                       Primary school tnapectoca sad pedo-    N.A.
e13:  Director, principal.                                                             gogic advisers. Directorste of
teachers, selected Inspectors; CUFC                                                    primary education  taff.
taff tin chare of to-service
training.
2. Kwaer                    One group of 40 Ferono.                     N.A.                                        One group of 40 at a time. (total         N .A.
120).
Scbedwle
1. Duration                 8 days                                      One mnth                                    1S day.                                   One weok per key topic at a time.
2. Frequency                One per year In 1988 *nd 1991.              Once/yeor. tn 1988 and 1991.               One in, 1989. 1990. 1991                   Three ttmes/year in 1988 (t.e..
total of 1 1/2 months).
3. Dates
Start                   July 1968                                  August 188                                 July 1989                                  January 1988
Finish                  July 1991                                  Auguet 1991                                 July 1991                                  October 1988
4. Fo;.w-up                                                             - Yearly review at ENl Sembari. 2           - Ionthly radio program                   Discusston at 1988 yearly review
days at end of school year.              - JouruAee pedagoiqeUn                     a"nd Implementatioa withti  12
moaths tbereefter.
Location
1 *First year               13I Sembert                                 MM4.  es-gut                               CWrC                                       nEo. smagul
2. Other yearr              BPI SaDbert                                 uK. Sengut                                 CNFC                                       MEN. sangul



ANNEX 3-2
Page 8 of 16
TABLE 2 - PRK- ANI} IN-?tNVICF TRAININ. IK'tX kAN hilk PRIKAWY i.JlCATlION PERSONNEL
COI!KS? . A                                                                     C0119SE B
Title                                              h:-ervics training for school directors.                                           .eneorl tn-sertVle tratning tor serving ptimary teihero.
Ob,3crtives;
1. Main .bJective                                  - Improve sch,.ol managemetnt ard admlnistraton.                                  - Strengthen the basic and pro esslonal skila of te.chers
(especiaily agetnts superieurs and agents)
- Adapt teaching methods to the new profile and role for
teachets.
2. Sub- bj.ctive                                                                                                                     - Prep4re teachers f,Ir the protessional competitive exam and
for the conf irmat ion procedure.
3. Nequired outcome                                - Imrproved schocl uperati.n.                                                     - Iaprove the effectivenesh of the teachfng process.
instructtonal Progrsa
I. Sry topice                                       ltanagement of:                                                                  - Module one (I month, agents and agents superleurs only):
Human resources:  relatinos with teachers.                                      remedial Instruction In French. math and science.
utudents and APEs.                                                           - Module two (3 weeks. all teachers); new teschtng methods.
Financial rabources;  school budget                                            Integrated and thematic approaches with spectal emphasts
preparation, accounting.                                                        on the environment, multlgrade and double-shift
Physical resources:  timetabling. currtculum                                   techniques.
analysis and development; care and management                                - Module three (2 weskbs  all teachers): revised curriculum
of textbooks, preventive maintenance of school                                  ClICP (In PYI and PT2). CE (in PY3 and P4). CM (In PYS).              0
buildings and property; safety regulations.                                   - Module four (2 weeks, all teachers, on a rotating basis
with module three): classtroo  practtce.
2. Subsidiary topica                               - Revised curriculum                                                              - CGneral pedagogy, psychopedagogy. child psychology
- Yeat-aoecific MEN instructions                                                  - Resource management: use and care of textbooks, preventive
mainEenance, pedagogic mkaterial development
- Comunity leadership.
DeIivery
1. Management                                      DRPFE                                                                             DNPFfi
2. Preperatton                                    Coe DkPFE statt, two CNFC and one ENI statf for                                    One DRPFt, one INKAP. ore CNFC, one ENI and onte INS staff
two weeks,                                                                        for one month, plus one consultant for one month.
3. Teachilng                                       CPR statf.                                                                        CPR staff.
Participants
1. Protll,                                         Primary achool dir :tors.                                                         Serving primary teachers, i.e. Instituteoru, instituteurs
adjoints, and lesb qualified but experie,,ced agents
auperleurs and agents denaeigneent.  Ini tially on a
voluntary basti.
2. Number                                          Groups of 30. once a year, at each CRP (total -                                   Groups of 30. 3 timea/year at CNFC and each CKP (total -
845).                                                                             1,733 instituteurs and inscituteurs adjoints, 965 agents
superieura end agents).



ANNEX 3-2
Page 9 of 16
Schrdule
I. Puratlon                                              20 dave                                                                                      11 wceeb  for agents superieurslageiitl (woduler  1-4). 7 wre,eb
for Instituteure/nlstltuteurs-adjoints  (modules 2-4).
2. Frequency                                             One time per vear/CPR.                                                                       Three tles per year/CPR
3Date.
Start                                               Aug.ust 198R                                                                                 October  1988
Finlsh1                                              September 1992                                                                              June 1992
4. Follow-up                                              - Nonthly radio prnraa                                                                     fRadlo program (twice/week)
- CPR pedagogic 1lstson bulletin                                                            Journes pedagogiques (2 dayeIyear/CPR)
LocatIon
i. First year                                            CPRn                                                                                         CPRc
2. Other yearn                                           Ci'Fe                                                                                        ClISc
Table 3 - In-Service Training Program for Primary Education Personnel
Summary
Catetory                                          Total    Nb Retrained    % Retrained
Inspectors/pedagogic advisors                                                120                       120                        100
Directors                                                                 1,010                        845                          84
instituteurs/Instituteurs Adjoints    2,829                                                        1,733                            62
Agents/Agents Superieurs                                                  1,785                        965                          54



- 78 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 10 of 16
Table 4 - In-Service Training Program for Prilmary Education Personnel
Nb     Retrained
Locatio.a        Course           Participants           1988   1989   1990   1991   1992  Retrained by Region
Phase I
(limited to project zone; starts in 1988)
CPR Bambari
(Ouaka)          A                Directeurs                25     30     30      30     30    145           72
B (Module 2-4)  Instit/I. Adj.            54     60     60      60     60    294           63
B (Module 1-4)  Agents/A. Sup.            21     30     30      30     30     41           58
(size of groups: 33)
CPR Bangassou
(Mbomou)         A                Directeurs                25     30     30      23      -    108          100
B (Module 2-4)  Instit/I. Adj.            48     48     48      44      -    188          100
B (Module 1-4)  Agents/A. Sup.            24     24      24     19      -      91         100
(size of groups: 24)
CPR Bangui
A               Directeurs                25     30      30     31      -    116          100
B (Module 2-4)  Instit/I. Adj.            45     60      60     60     60    285           54
B (Module 1-4)  Agents/A. Sup.            30     45     45      45     45    210           47
(size of groups: 35)
CNFC (Bangui)
A               Directeurs                25     25      25     25      -    100          100
B (Module 2-4)  Instttil. Adj.            45     60     60      60     60    285           54
B (Module 1-4)  Agents/A. Sup.            30     45     45      45     45    210           47
(size of groups: 35)
Phase II
(limited expansion; starts in 1989)
CPR Berberati
A               Directeurs                 -     25      25     25     25    101          100
B (Module 2-4)  Instit/Z. Adj.             -     45     60      60     55    230          100
B (Module 1-4)  Agents/A. Sup.             -     30      30     30     28    118          100
(size of groups: 30)
CPR Bouar
A               Directeurs                 -     25      30     30     30    115           79
B (Module 2-4)  Instit/I. Adj.             -     45     60      60     60    225           69
B (Module 1-4)  Agents/A. Sup.             -     30      33     33     33    129           83
(size of groups: 31)
Phase III
(gencrallzation to country-wide program; starts in 1990)
CPR Bossangoa
A               Directeurs                 -      -      15     30     30      75          78
B (Module 2-4)  Instit/I. Adj.             -      -     45      48     48    141           72
B (Module 1-4)  Agents/A. Sup.             -      -      25     30     30      85          76
(size of groups: 26)
CPR Kagabandoro
A               Directeurs                 -      -      25     30     30      85          60
B (Module 2-4)  Instit/I. Adj.             -      -      45     60     60    185           43
B (Module 1-4)  Agents/A. Sup.             -      -      15     33     33      81          52
(size of groups: 31)



ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 1 of 16
,RTPUEtI QIiT Cf Nil at7CAItNT
REHABUIT IT1ON Et Plt VIO'PfPfTNT STCT FVR fD(ICATION
lable Al n f .71SON PPOGRILM14 fOR TPtION It AtI t
Detatled Cost Table
tFCFA)
Breakdovtn of totals t ncl  Cont
'Us$1
Quantity                                              local
-Etel.  Duties a
Untt       t988  1989 tg90 tg9t  1992 1993 t991 Total  Unit Cost  ror  Exch. Taxes)   Taxes   Total
1. INVESTRENit cosrs
A. SEIlNAIRE EVALUA)TON RETROSPECTIVE FORRATIOIi INITIAtE NAIIRES
1. PREPARATION SfEINAIRE
FONCTIONNAIRES la                                                 H"Om   joars        24    -          24          -          48
Sub-Total PREPARATION SENINAIRE
2. OERO1ILENEWT
ANIMATION SEANCES PAR CONSUlTANIS IATIONAUX                       t""e jours          t8    -           l8    -          -    36      A 11.27?          -   i,57           -   1,517
CONSULTANT INTERNATIONAL.                                            Notnne/mois     0 3    -    -   0.3    -    -           0.5  3. 782.244        7. 048       -         -   7.048
VOYAGE                                                              Aller/retour       I    -    -       A    -    -           2  1 246.695         9.292        -         -   9.292
PER OtE7t POUR PARTICIPANTS  /c                                    Homi. jours       240          -   240    -    -    -   480         5.884            -  10.552          -  10.552
VOYAGE POJR PARTICIPANTS  /d                                         personnes        40               40    -    -    -    80         4.413            -   1.319          -   1. 19
Stu-Total OEROUSLENENT                                                                                                                                16 340  13. 380         -  29.72?
Sub-Total SENINAIRE EVALUATION RETROSPECTIVE fORMATION INITIALE 1?     AI.RES                                                                             16.340  13.388         -  29.727
B. GROUPE REFLEXION ET TRAVAIt SUR REVISIOtt PROGRAMIES
1. SPECIAUISIES NAlIONAUX                                                                                                                                                                                  -4
GROUP REFtEIION  8e                                                  Hoe/mos           4    -    -      2    -                 6    269. 665            -   6.240              6.240
Sub-Total SPECIALISIES NATIONAUX                                                                                                                            -   6.240         -   6.240
2. INTERVENTION CONSUItANT INTERNATIONAL
SOECIALISTE FOR7NATION NAITRES  Jf                                   H#Ome mos         t    -    -       t    -    -    -      2  3. 782.244       28. 191       -         -  28.191
VOYAGES /g                                                           Nomsemois         -                                                                -
Sub-Total INTERVENTIONt CONSUtTANT INTERNATIONAL                                                                                                      28. 191       -         - 28. 191
Sub-Total GROUPE REFLEXION ET TRAVAIL SUR REVISION PRUGRAMIES                                                                                            28.1Et   6.240          -  34.431
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                                                       44. 531  t9.628         -  64. 159
Total                                                                                                                                                         44.531  t9.628          -  64.159
/a  4 personnes pour 6 jours
/b  3 personnes pour 6 jours
/C  40 porsonnes pendant S jours
Id  300 les par personne
fe  4 personnes pendant 1 mois en 1988, et 15 jours en 199)
If  mom que pendant seminsire. voir derouleent
fg  deja inclug sous derouleament seminaire
October 9. 4987  09:44



ANNEX 3-2
Page 12 of 16
REPUBLIQUE CFNTRA8tlCAINE
RFHAB ItITATION ET DEVFIOrPF ENI SECTIFUR EDUCATION
12  SEITNA I TFS POUR ItfS ItNSPFCTEURS Et DONSEItIEER  PfCDGAGlGQtE DE; tltSiIGhf MENI FONOAPILMENtAt
Deta'ted Cos' latl'
IFCft
Breakdown of lotals Incl Co,t
tJ S$t
Quantity                                                Local
iFxcl   Duties S
U^ t         198S 1989  tqgo  1991  1992 1993 1994 Total   Utit Cost  ro,  Exch  Takest   taxes    Total
1. INVESTMENM  COSTS
A  PREPARATION / ANIMFATION SEMINAIRES
t. INTERVENTION CONSULTANTS
FONCTIONMAIRES /a                        Ho,m*e jour         -    60    t5    15           -            90                        -
SPECIAt5STE INTERNATIONAt               tNom /neo s                 1                                     1  3.782.744       14. 254                     14. 254
VOYAGE                                  Aller/retour         -                             .    -         t  1, 246. 695      4. 698       -         -    4.698
Sub-total INTERVENTION CONSULTANTS                                                                                              18. 952                 -   18. 952
2. FORMUTIOt  EQUIPE NATIONALE
BOURSES INSPECTION  /b                   Hamm MO is         10    10         -        -          -      20    630 374        46. 275                     46. 275
VOYAGE                                  Atler/retour         I      1                    -    -          2  1. 46. 695        9. t52                      9. 52
Sub-Total  fORMATION EQUIPE NATtONALE                                                                                           55. 427                     55. 427
3  VOYAGE 0 ETUDE 3 PERSONNES
TRANSPORT                               Aller/retour         3      -     -      -    -    -              3  1.246,695       13.361                  - 13.361
PERDIEF /c                                   Jours          30      -     -      -    -                 3v      42.550        4.560             -         4,560
Sub-Total VOYAGE D ETUDE 3 PERSOttNES                                                                                            17.921        -        -   17. 921                                         o
- - - -- -   - - - -- - - - - - -- - -   --O
Sub-Total PREPARATION t ANIMATION SEMINAIRES                                                                                        92. 300       -         -   92. 300 
8. DEROUEEMENT DES SEIIIINAIRES
1. ANIMATION SEIMNAIRE
FONCTIONNAIRES CNfC  /d                  Home/jours          -    30    30    30    -    -    -         90
CDONSUITANTS NATI71AIUX  /e              ttorsne/jour        -    30    30    30    -    -              90      t1. 277            -   3. 996             3.996
PER DIEM PARTICIPANTS  ff                 Hoan jours             600   600   600    -    -    -   1. 800         5.884                41.697         -   4t 697
VOYAGES OES PARTICIPANTS  tg              personne                40    40    40    -                   120      4.413             -   2.085         -    2.085
MATERIEt PEDAGOGIOUE                   Par participant       -    40    40    40    -    -    -         120     10 038        4.842                  -    4.842
Sub-Total ANIMATION SENINAIRE                                                                                                    4.842  47.778          -   52.621
Sub-Total DEROILEMENT DES SEFINAIRES                                                                                                 4.842  47.778          -   52.621
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                                 97. 143  47. 778        -  144. 921
Total                                                                                                                                    7. 143  47.778             144.921
/a  5 personnes chaque annee
/b  2 80urses
/c  Voyage do 10 jours
1d  2 personnes pendant 15 jours
/e  2 personnes pendant 15 jours
If  40 Participants pendant IS jours/annee
/g  300 Kms par personne
October 9. 19087  09: 44



ANNEX 3-2
Page 13 of 16
REPUBIUQUE CI17RAFRTCAIME
RthABItITitIO% El C vEEOPPftfK1 SECTIUR  5iUCATION
Tat le 73  GROVPE RF!FERION GES1T1O  PERSOJNFI Et RFSSOURCFS FOUCANIVES
Dets'led Cost lable
ftCF A
Breakdown of 1otalS Irc   Cornt
fuss'
1f cl  Dut'es S
Unrt        988 t9Pq 1990 19,   11q37 199t 1494 Total  Unit Cost  for  Exch  7a.9s)  laxes   total
I  ItVESlt'ENt COSTS
1  GROUP REttfXIoN
I  EQUIPE NAtIONAUX COP6UtlAitS
TRAVAIL SUR CARRIERt ENSEIGNANTE  /a                        Honm-e jour      36                                       36      11.2T7             -  t.664              1. 664
YRAVA1I  SUR SES115il RESSOURCES EOUCATIVES  lb              morme 3ou       36                                       3fi     Al 271                1.664         -   t 664
Sub-total (QUIPE NAtIONAUX CONSULtANtIS                                                                                                                3 777              3. 327
2  INIERVfNTION CONSUI rANTS
SPECIAlISTE CARRiERT ENSEIGNANTE                            Honm mo's          I                                       1  3 782 244         3;                        131 Sit
SPECIAtISlE GESTION RESSOURCES EDUCATIVfS                   Hotrmewmo's        I                                       '  3.782.244        13 Slt                     13 511
VOYAGE                                                     AIti,/r,etour       2                                       2  1.246.695         8.90?                      8,907
Sub Total INTERVENTION CONSUWIAMTS                                                                                                            3S 930                     35. 930
Sub-total .zAOUP REflEEIOi                                                                                                                        35. 930  3,327             39. 257
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                                               35. 930  3,32?7            39, 757
Total                                                                                                                                                 35. 930  3. 327            39.757
/a  4 personn.ts p"ndavt 9 jours
/b  4 presonnes pendant 9 jours
Oitobe,r 9. 1987  09. 44



ANNEX 3-2
Page 14 of 16
REPUBLIQUE CENIRAFRICAINI
RfHABILITATION El DEVEEOPPEflENT SECTEUR EDUCATION
Table 14 RECYCtAGE DIRECTEURS DES ECOLES
Detailed Cost Table
If Cf 41
Sreakdotn of lotals Incl  Cont
1US$)
Quent*ty                                         -            _    , I      _
......    .   ....  .........    .tEocal    KEmC   Dut *es  8
Unt           t1988    1989    1990    1995    t992   1993 t994  Total    Unit Cost  for  Etch          Taxesi      Taxes    Total
t. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. PREPARATION STAGtS
FODCT tIONNAIRES /a                              Hno"  JOUr            48                                  -          -       48
CONSUETANT INTERNATIONAL                          NaWnirw/totg stI                                                              1 3.782.244        13,5t1                       -   13.511
VOYAGE                                           Afler/eetour            1                                 -          -         1  t 746. 695       4.454             -              4.454
Sub-lotal PREP*RATEIOI STAGES                                                                                                                          t7.965                           17.965
8  SFAGES AUe CPRS
ANIMIATION1 STAGES PAR tONCTIONNAiRES  lb         Nornm H ou,         240      360      480     480      360                1. 920
PER Ot"I POUR PARIICIPANTS  Jc                    HoeM   jou-       2.000   3.300   4.200   4.480   3.520                 17.500       3.432                    221,99i         - 221.991
VOYAGES PARTICIPANTS  /d                           personne            too     t65      210     224      176                 875       4.413                     14. 271             14. 271
Sub-Total STAGES AUX CPRS                                                                                                                                          236 261             236. 26
Tota) INVESTMENI COSIS                                                                                                                                    17. 965      236. 26S        - 254.22E
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. HTERIEI PEDAGOGIQUE
NATERIEL                                      par participant         t00     165      210     224      176                 875       2,984        6.055         3.806               9.861                    f
Sub-Total MATERIEL PEDAGOGIQUE                                                                                                                        6.055         3.806               9.861                     1
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                                      6.055         3;806              9.861
Total                                                                                                                                                      24. 020      240. 067        - 264. 087
/a  4 personnes pour 12 journees
/b 3 personnes pour 20 jours. dans 8 centres on vitesse croisire
/c  on moyenne 30 poqrsonnes pour 20 jours, dans 8 contres
/d 300 Itms par participant
OctoI2er   9,    )987   -   09:.44                            .   ........ ......                 ....    .  .      .   .  .     .                                        .
October 9, t987  09:44



- 83 -                                                      ANN4EX 3-2
REFOiut  04011AIMPa-ge -15   -of   16
6u0100400costItable
it CS at~~~~~~~~~~~keko o oai ,I 4a
.*I.11                                   tocat tioct  P.t,O0 6~~111
144  111     41     I  I tOt tOO    I1)  is"   It tow   ilCot cal         loo      la. st      lsso       .t
I    I itStItSl £0115
...114  t ...   ... wh .....     ..
S 94501081546 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tLt I /4/oo                                          1                                            s
*64t1664t11 S11211111104t                                                             6                                                           24SQ  t        4  5- 60
iSto talti,i tPIIA1 omtL  I                                            /0,,             o                                                                                                            It, 4  .1
S.h toI p04Mott15 I iltoiI/                                                                                                                                         1,0                               1
~~~ pupuartow 640611) 'c~~~~~~~~~~ftolow                                  6   1                    t
(L :Iimmltts 14                                                                                                 M~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  .141.44  S. 146          -      L II
SPI*b 1t   4 21 *6t11141 14164641   1  I                                                                                                                             I t6 1
4  MtMtOttPo 9644U    ICOO/
..14 -                                                                                           .                .             .    ._.......6...                                   ~                1
001400                   httM/t.t*$              5        .       .       .        .         -         I  t.146.00        4444~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....  ..   ...   .  ....
mom10        116I                                                11101tets4                      S       t.                                        1.24.126       4.604                             $41
ia  wi.t.t  UD.aftSt 106 hIDIm6ROO   01C1I1                                                                                                         3  WU1$.2U4    13S1                               461i
S.h-Ioest mptu116  50ll     544b)    t11114l   MlIMtt cS.iii                                                                                                                                           1.
mai050t41t611*2I  tit0355ipp.uw.                                                       Il       4      44       41       5            .    t8 1   t64,) tI                    0  41              S  26
4011401 MP44ICUIIN /q0131C                                                              211     12       64      It?     0)1                2C14 .At.                           41  I          .     4.S
1.0-i.t.at OD tIMi  l P043                                                                                                                                           1126       2.t.60                21
I. 101A916A411            490ItlNtt  F
6 4 1 0   I.. .t                                                       C . S . I . . .O. .1                                                          2... . . . . . . .0  . . . . .0                  ..
6461100511 s I                                                   mo56Oa t*ov        2   '    SU          . M    . 11    .       1             4     2060 li                         .        .      t.3
1  ..0 - o u     . . . . . . . . .t                                                                                                                                t.  1 4.
PE13   i146 sull                                                                                                                                                     20.324l ilstAAN    /  1  44 4S 4j  1  I 161 1   la2620 S".138,011
0. 60001506 fiIttIl(6 iflhlfOlt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ...... .....-...
sub5lata                                                               11,4W20                   04       00       4      40    4            3 /a264                 1,1        1.1l?t   . n         2114311
6  i461800 'naoou,                                                                                                                                                  M68          24 t2                11.1
0.0-I.t.t 4316450 PiOIlOGtWl  i.                                                                                              1.214          681                2.21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....   .......   ..; I.
Stat Tos    t                                                                                                                                                          11.161    1.2 6.252          . 235.41
A   2 gao..-.. Os.- 20 jo.o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~..  ....... .
/d  1 s.o.s.... p..- 10 5ooos ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~......   .......  ...
II bIt-od      co Tss.o t        ..
A   I  011FATtOl I00  010114A IR
(4  1 p.ooo~~~~~~~~.s Sb.- 40 josos Isfos's~9.14-                                                                                                        405          2                      3
/0   5644044    8,1111 4GOtft,
/p 1.sstasa Ee 1   o'qi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.10                                                          131             III2 
01,6460 6. 3081 01 44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J    .5.12                                                                .2.118



ANNEX 3-2
Page 16 of 16
REPU5t QUf CF":R   Rt:i
RENABiIlIATi0K ET DEVEILPPLMLWT SECTFilR fDlJtATIO4
Table 16  IEV8LATIOT70IR  PARI CURS COVtPOSaNTF ftORfAION El RFCYCLAG(
Dota, ld Cost table
lfCf^%
Breakdowr of lota1s I>ci Com
(US$1
tua,,tt*Iy                                           Local
ILEwl Out'oe 
Unit       1988 1989 1990 1991 l9q2 1993 1994 lotal U,,t Cost  foe  Exch  Taxes)  laxgs   Iotal
I  INVESTMENT COSTS
. LQuIpT  CONSLET.ANTS N"AI14AIUX  /a
TRAYAiL SUR FORN8TtOW INITIALE           Home jours                         12                      12      11. 277                 457                457
TRAVAIL SUR RLCYCtAGE  /b                HUm  jo3Urs                        36                      36      tl 277                1.370              1 370
Sub-Total EQUIPE CONSULTANTS NATIONAUX  /a                                                                                            1.827              1 827
8 INTERVEN71ON EXTERI?EURE
.... ....  -- - - - -   . -
SPECIALISIE INTERINATIONAL                  or me MOIs                       2                       2  3.782.244        29. 359       -         -  29.359
VOYAGE                                   8)ler/..tour                         I                      I  1. t?46 695       4.839                      4.839
StA -Total INTERVENTION EXTERIlEURE                                                                                          34. 198                   34 198
lotal INVTSTNENT COSIS                                                                                                          34 t98  1 82'         ;   36 025
Total                                                                                                                            34. 198  1 827             36 025
/8  4 personn.s pendant 12 )ours
lb y coupris prograsates radio et correspondance
r. .                    .o.                             -   -                                                                      .     .   ..9.  ....   ..
October 9. 1987  09 44



- 85 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 11
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF TEXTBOOK AND PEDAGOGIC PUBLISHING AND DISTRIBUTION PROGRAM
1.        Background.  The Government supplies, free of charge to primary
schools, a small number of pupil textbooks (French and mathematics) and a
small number of teachers' guides (French, mathemathics, geography,
grammar). The number supplied is not adequate, with book-pupil ratios
varying from one French book for 3-4 pupils in the final year of primary in
Bangui schools to no pupils' books in rural schools, with a national
average of 1 book per 10-20 pupils. To supplement the meagre Government
supply, some local community parents' associations have started to buy
books. However, books currently used, with few exceptions, are unsuitable.
Most were written for the Francophone West African region in general, were
published more than 10 years ago are often ill-adapted or out-dated, and
were published and manufactured abroad and imported into the country. The
cost of books is high, averaging 2,110 CFAF in 1986, and even new books
developed by local authors, are published by foreign publishers using high
production specifications which place the cost of the books beyond the
Government. The Ministry has not attempted to influence the publishers by
rea .3tlng more economical production specifications nor to evaluate the
pedagogic value of the books or the real amount of work in a book which can
be covered in one school year.
2.        Each year the "Commission du choix des livres" produces a tenta-
tive purchase list of titles and quantities based on estimated available
Government funds. The DBCM then invites known suppliers to make an offer
and once the cheapest offer is identified, quantities are reduced to fit
the Government budget with the "Con.nission du choix" deciding the priori-
ties. Books are transported from the coast to Bangui by transport agents
and after customs exoneration are taken to one of the DBCM's warehouses.
The DEPF1 instructs the warehouse chief on the articles to be supplied to
each inspectorate. The allocation is calculated on the basis of infor-
mation in the school inspectors' end of year reports, and when the
inspectors come to Bangui for their annual conference at the end of August
they collect their supplies of books, exercise books and chalk. They must
arrange transportation of the materials themselves. However, sometimes a
parents' association helps, sometimes a local businessman. Delivery from
the inspectorates to the schools is the responsibility of the school
director. Storage facilities and security for books at all levels are
either inadequate or non-existent and a national consciousness of the need
to conserve scarce resources is missing.
3.        Objectives.  This component aims to increase the number of educa-
tionally appropriate books in schools and to ensure their continuing avail-
ability. Approximately 430,000 pupils' and teachers' hool will be bought.
The books' average life span will be increased throup           es in specifi-
cations and improvements to storage.  The educational value of books will



- 86 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 11
be improved through strengthening publishing knowledge, evaluation proce-
dures and educational measurement. Specifically the project aims to:
(a)  improve procurement procedures at the DBCM, and use these proce-
dures to purchase a core package of basic books, which would last
3 years, while encouraging publishers to produce cheaper books;
(b)  increase the budgetary allocation for education materials and
supplies so that subsequent pedagogical materials may be
purchased using government resources;
(c)  encourage APEs to purchase textbooks and pedagogical materials in
quantities and subject areas additional to the core package
funded by the Government;
(d)  improve school, inspectorate, and central warehouse storage; and
institute regulations for management of physical resources;
(e)  develop a centre of technical information on publishing, avail-
able to the Ministry, and train local staff in educational
publishing;
(f)  develop and train the DEOS (educational evaluation department)
and study book use and educational achievement; and
(g)  develop book evaluation procedures and improve the pedagogical
value and physical quality of experimental documents.
4.        Required outcomes.  An average of I book per 2 pupils in the
basic subjects; cheaper and more suitable books resulting from communica-
tiorn and co-publication between the Ministry and publishers, and suitable
storage and distribution arrangements for books.
5.        Strategy.  The textbook element of the project covers three main
activities:
(a)  Purchase of books:  bulk purchase by the project through improved
procedures of 3 years' supply of books throughout the country
(See Table 1 for books to be purchased);
(b)  Book distribution and storage:  improvement of book storage
facilities and of their management throughout the distribution
system; and
(c)  Textbook publishing:  improvements in educational books' content
and relevance with strengthened book publishing and evaluating
competencies, educational evaluation and the production unit for
experimental material.
6.        Improved purchasing and procurement procedures would include the
proper evaluation of the educational content and quality of the books being
considered for purchase (para 7 (b)) as a forerunner to the assessment by
the DEPF1 of the quantities of books needed throughout the country and the
deliberations of the existing book selection commission. All books,



- 87 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 3 of 11
whether from INRAP or from a foreign publisher, would be evaluated in two
phases: (a) pedagogical relevance, content and presentation; and
(b) physical specifications, before being considered for purchase. Quanti-
ties of books needed will be projected and accumulated for several years so
that better discounts can be obtained from publishers. The books to be
purchased by the project are intended to have revised "basic" production
specifications aimed at reducing costs, so that the country can afford to
restock them in the future.
7.        The improvement in the content of books would be brought about
by:
(a) the transformation and strengthening of the existing school book
publishing unit at INRAP into the Ministry of Education textbook
service, as both a source of technical knowledge and advice and a
publishing centre for developing locally written manuscripts;
(b) the creation of a commission, meeting annually, to evaluate the
pedagogical content relevance and presentation of the educational
books available and build up a reference centre for information
on the educational value of books;
(c) the further development of the education evaluation unit in INRAP
so that it can conduct studies of importance to the Government in
arranging its educational priorities; and
(d) the purchase of some new equipment to improve the quality of
typesetting/origination ana printing of experimental texts in the
printing unit at INRAP.
8.        For all three main groups of activities, training and consultancy
services are included. Limited renovation of some existing buildings in
Bangui is provided and, according to needs, renovation of storage facili-
ties in the prefectures, to ensure improvement to the book distribution
system.
9.        Coordination and management.  Several directorates of MEN (INRAP)
are involved in the management of the textbook component. A consultant
supervisor reporting to the Inspector General of Schools and the Secretary
General of MEN is in charge of the management of the component as a whole.
The coordination of roles is shown in Table 2. To permit regular
monitoring and control of this component, annual reports prepared by the
cimponent supervisor affirming the satisfactory development of the
component activities should be submitted to the Government and the
Association.
10.       Costs and Quantities.  Investment costs are shown in the attached
detailed tables.



- 88 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 4 of 11
Table 1 - Books to be Purchased by the Project
Teachers' Books            Subject            Level           QIantity          Lccal/Foreign
Reading             Ci                1,840                 1.
C?                1,530                 L
CE1               1,420                 F
CE2               1,110                 F
(M1               1,130                 F
CM2               1,080                 F
Language            CI                1,840                 L
(2                1,530                 L
CE1               1,420                 L
Grammar             CE1               1,420                 F
CE2               1,110                 F
CM1               1,130                 F
1,080                 F
Math                CI                1,840                 F
CP                1,530                 F
CE1               1,420                 F
CE2               1,110                 F
(Ml               1,130                 F
c22               1,080                 F
Science             CE1               1,420                 L
CER2              1,110                 L
Dui               1,130                 L
C(2               1,080                 L
Geography           CM1               1,130                 F
2CM2              1.080                 F
History             C1M2              1,080                 L
Total                                                     33,780
,-pils' Books              Subject            Level           quantity          Local/Foreign
Reading             CI               54,790                 F
(2               43,280                 F
CE1              38,470                 F
CE2              27,710                 F
CM1              28,780                 F
CM2              26,590                 F
Math                CEI              38,470                 F
CE2              27,710                 F
anl              28,780                 F
CE2              26,590                 F
Science             CMl              28,780                 F
C22              26,590                 F
Total                                                     396,540



ANNEX 3-3
Page 5 of 11
Table 2 - Coordination and Management of Component Activities - Levels of Authority
Consultant              National          INRAP
Managing   Inspectien    Book            Book     INRAP        Inspection    Primary
Activity                  Agency      General   Committee  DCBM Service Printshop DEOS Academic  Inspectorctes DEPFI DCES
Bulk Book Purchase        Manage           M
Decide                                  D
Advise          A           A                          A                                               A
Implement                                        I
Storage Improvement       Manage           M                                M                              M
Decide                                  D
Advise                      A                          A                                     A         A     A
Implement
Materials Management      Manage           M
Decide                                  D
Advise                      A                                                                          A     A         c0
Implement                                        I                                           I
Distribution              Manage           M
Decide          D
Advise                      A           A
Implement                                        I                               I           I
Publishing and Evaluating Manage           H
Books                    Decide                                  D
Advise                      A                    A                       A
Implement                                              I
Pedagogical Evaluation    Manage           M
Decide                                  D
Advise                      A                                            A
Implement                                              T
Printing                  Manage           M
Decide                                  D
Advise                      A                          A
Implement                               I                       I



ANNEX 3-3
Page 6 of 11
ORGANIGRAMME DE L'l.N.R.A.P.
J         -u__-_ Directeur
Departernent de Production                   Coordonnoteur de Recherche et d'Animatbon               Departement de l Adminlstrotion
du Moteriel Didactique                         Pedogogiques Conseiller Technique                          et des Finances
Unite de Fabrication                                                                 .                         .
Departement dlmpression     de Mobilier Scoiare et                                                         _e du Personnl             et de I' Itendance
ptsson       de Moteriel Didactique                                                         et dPesnltde1tnac
non imprime
| 9tdz1tet    |         |   zINu | |  fD6prternent de lbnseigemnt  D|partement de rEvaluotion            t de IEdRion         D6parterment de la Radio
Dooemn  detEsiinrnn               Fondarnental Niveou 2          et de rOrlentalo ScoloireetdloDurnatn
Fodetl a  t SeondoiteG4n6r                et Profesoe                         atia
Unite de ComMruftatiOn          Unite des Langues Vivantes      Uni des Mesures et Evoluation    Unit de Conception des Mconuels   Unl4 d Animation 6  9 Radio
Untt6 des ScieWnces et Technokogle    UnitO des Sciences et Techno0loge   Uni| de rOrientation Scolaire  Scolaires               Scobcire
Unit6 de dlEtude du Milieu      Unito des Sciences Humoines     et Protessionneie         _      Unit6 de Redaction de la Revue  Unit6 dAninmaton d ia T6elvision
Unit6 dinldiaon Artistique                                                                                                          t d e M  Unitt de P5ncho-PedOgogde et    |Pdo  de Scdaire_
|Sociologie                     un|t6 de Rddaction du Trimestriel    Unite de Maintenance des
Bokao                           Apparells
Unit de la Documentation et des |   _|
_ _  ArchWves                                    Bn-25
_Wode 80rtk-3t2t5-2



WErUrn  o"f 'rfn*^l*ArCAI#Et                                                      ANNE           3-3
St"^A1ttt^1108t It DrWrlrU*PfMttft S(ti'tlil tottCAITrS                                         Page    7  of  11
table 21. CAACttE O EDllIOtt tPtrLE PtfthGOGttUF
r>to.ltW rvit tsbio
ttreakdotem of ltotls It-ct Cont
. ..      . ..........     ...... - ..........  .
quant it                                             Lo tcal
utnit      iS¢ss tGtt< 1990  ;9;1 ;tft2 11113 1911  total Unit Cost  tot. fach. let) lt x^s    total
ft r;EsT IrM  s   SANTE  ttZtttS SCOtIAIRES
CONutSUtAI SUMt  GEStlONV CORMXPTtSE  fl                                Nam  go is        2    t    1    t    t                   6  J. 182. 244      8$ *33        -             t5 *l't
VOYAGES                                                                Al ler/  tour      I    I    I    I    I    -    _         S        24t. 695   .23. TOT      -             21 7ot
Suib-total GfStiONt t>PosXTEr ItStEtS StE8IRES                                                                                                           10fR t40      -             02. t40
a  fT^tLISStEIf4r SEtntcE ttS4UftS D  ouUtATIOtt tiAtlONtt    I SttEX I
WURSE CNtt Stttt                                                     tt0m    mohil-               -       5                      63$0. 374         t3. S t I              -    i. stI t
SMrJSES RfDACTEURS MIorets  Ai                                      Rao  Dsit        12    -           ..2    630. 3r4                             27.022       -- 27. 022
VOYtlGES                                                           Plw2eotout         3    -3  t. 246. Ms                                          t3. ist                     11.36t
Sub-total fORMATIrtN StEft                                                                                                                            S3.l94                      S3.f8S4
2.~~ ~ .(ETAM    COSLO
CONtSULTATit   EOITEUR                                              fttrS    ois      2    t    t    2    t    -                  3.7S2.244      tOO, 113       -W -  OOt3
vovtr;Es                                                           ttev.etour         7    I        t        t I        -         t. 2<6. im       32. 9e                      32. "g
Sub-total INTtERVENItettle  COltSUtltAtttS                                                                                                           133.112        -23 _         Slt2
3.  .01"H        SHE
PHOfOcePIEUR                                                           Unitto          I          -                            t  t 55.859          5.873       -                . 823        
tt4CIHINE tCRIRE  /c                                                   Unit            I                                       I    4st. 7ot        t. 690                -      . 690t
tetCHAINE ERVIRE  fd                                                   Unoteo         2    -      -*              *     *      2    7x34. 0oe       t201                  -     220t
CALCUtiAtRtCE                                                         Unito           I    -                                         36. 136          135                         135
ttYRES tlE RfFEREltCE                                                 Unite           I                                             100.37A           376                         316
Sub-Total EOUIPEttENtt SHEtt                                                                                                                          10.225        *         - *o27S
4 tQtttlEs SttEN
BUREAU                                                                unite    S                           -                        1    -St3,555  .  .737 t.947        -         J684
ARttIRE                                                               Unite           5     -                                      5    748 048     2. 348  7. 63t              4.9sts
ftUtEUltS                                                             Unite           S                                       5      74. 414          704    789                t. 494
CINAISIS                                                              Unite          10          -                -     -    t       11.906           225    2S3          -       47a
Sub-totst MBLtsIEiR SNfEN                                                                                                                              5.01s  S 620               to. 615
SuJb-Total ETBISStMsENTtE      SERVICE UWEtS O EDUCAttlOtt NTItONAL   SttEtt I                                                                          202.247  s 620           -  207.86?
Ttal' INVEtSTMEWe COSTS                                                                                                                                     311. 38?  S.6S20            317 00?
11. RECURRaEtt  COSTS
A OPER4tlOtt WREAU
fOURNItURE eUREAu                                                     Pe  snnoe          §    t     '    1                       4    248.627         2.271  1. 560               3. e3t
Stk-Totsl OPER4ttOtt BUREAU                                                                                                                              2. 271  1.560          -    3.831
Totat RECURRENTt COStS                                                                                                                                        2. 2t;  t,5S0               3.8s3;
To t s I1.5 s.8                                                                                                                                                                          320-.839-   :r:--  
--  -- -- --  - --  -- -- -  -- -- --  -
Lat 3 soines/on on visitw I semnziraon rtw5>t
Jb 2 personne chitquo Pour 6 not$
/c Ef ctrique
Id fet h*^sq
. ...... ....... .. .. . ... ..... ..... .. ... .. ... ........ .....    . .......  ...    ....    .. .   -- - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Octbe  9   t98t  Q9:44



It Bilt iloVE 0.141H NA IILA101
RE#,as,IIIti;a  tja   Et rvstovnntm, srCitUR EMCA..Caro                                                     ANNEX   3-3
table 22. CAPACIT[ 0 IvAlIJ*ttOu1 PEBAOOGI#tlf DIOS
Detailed Cos  Poloage  8   of   11
flpcsf*~ of tota ls hI-e Cent
oust)
@ur.t ity                                                   toca I
...... ...... ----    - --     --- ------ ------ ---        Q nlEa   Outtes    8
Unit       ~~~1968  1989  t9g0  t991  199   1993 1994 T?otl  Unit Cost  lof  E.Ch  T6.esl    TO."                Total
I. INVEStPIENT costs
A  SERV1CE D EVALUATtON EOUCA1Ir Et PEOAGOCIQUE DIOS
I FORRAIZON OEOS
BOURSE DIRECTEUR                                                Hemui  MO Is            3      7              -     -     -     -     to    630 374         23. 385                       23. 385
BOURSE POUR AGENT SUPERtURt  /a                                 *lowe, me's              -     6                          -6    630. 374                    14. 254        .- 14. 254
VOYAGES                                                        Aller/,-etour             1      I      -             -                 2  1. 246. 695        9. 152                        9. 15?
DEVI1 SENINAIRES iORtAIlON WAIION61.  /b                        Halcgooi Jeuri        140       -     -     40      -                280       1.313              -   1.436           -     1.436
Sub-lotal FORMIATION D10S                                                                                                                                      46 791    1, 43f               48 22?
2 INIERVENItON CONSU0601lTS
SPECIALISTE EVALtUAtION E7 ETUDFS PEOAGOIGTQUT                  Noeuvi mcis           0 8   08a            0 a          08 a           3  3.782,244         43. 132        -              43. 132
VOYAGES                                                        Alter-/ielour                II                I      -     I    -      4  I.2746.95s        IS. 956                        la1. 956
Sub-Total INTERVENTION CONSUEIANIIS                                                                                                                            62 087                         62.087
3 EOIJIPENENRI POUR DEOS
MICRO                                                               Unite                I                                                 1. 260. 748       4. 718                        4.718
ONDULATEUR                                                          Unite                1                                                   787.968         2. 949        --              2, 949
LOGICTELS                                                          Unite                                      -.                       1    630.374          2.359                         2.359
K"PRIIIAN1C                                                        V~toT~                I      -                         -     .      1    472.781          1.769         -               1.769
MACHIINE ECRIRE                                                     Unite                I             .                                     294. l08        1. lOt                   -     . 101
Sub-Ttota  EQUIPE14tEi  POUR 0E0S                                                                                                                              12.896         -               2896
4 TRANSPORT
VENICIME 4 I 4                                                      Unite                              I-                              1  5. 791. 812       23. 433                       2  3.433
Sub total TRANSPORT                                                                                                                                            23. 433                   . 23. 433
5 ETUDES El VISItES 0 OBSERVSIION
PER oftm   /c                                  "~~~~~~~tOawu  jour      - 120    ".0   120   120                    480        S. 884                to. 324          - tO. 324
Sub-total ElUDE  ET VIS17ES 0 OBSERVATION                                                                                                                             .   0324            . t,2
SLk-Total SERVtCE 0 EMOIJTION EDIJCATIt ET PED*GOGIOUE 010S                                                                                                       145.2708  I1.760              tss. 968
total II4VESTN!NT COSTS                                                                                                                                              145.208  1 1. 760          -  156,968
TI RFCUR'IE,eT COSS
A OPERATION / ENTRETIEN YENItCULES
FRAIS V ASSUJRANICE                                                Vehicule                I      I      I      I      I    I            6     198.90?         2.770    1. 672                4.44?
PIECES DETACHEES / ENTRETIEN                                       Vebicul.                                                                                    3.422    1.795           -     5.217
ESSENCE / CONSONNAtION                                       1200 litre/vehi anne          I      1I        I      I      I I            6    349.669          4.870   2.939                  7.809
Sub-Total OPERAtION / ENTRITIEN VENICIJE                                                                                                                          It. 062   6.406                M 7468
S. OPERATION BUIREAUI
FRAtS ETUDES / PEtITE NATERtAL                                      Par annee              I      1      1      1      I     i           6    298. 352         4. 155   2.508           .     6. 663
Sub-Total OPERATION BUREAU                                                                                                                                         4.155   2.508                 S.663
Totat RECURRENT CMTS                                                                                                                                                   I5.21?   8.913           - 24. 131
fto&'                                                                                                                                                                  160.425  20.674           -181. 099
/a i persons%. pour 6 MO Is
lb pour 20 pewsonnes pendant I seamine
/c Equiulp do 4 pesonwues pour 30 jowal/tnrawu6
...   . . .  . . .  . .  . . .  . .     . . . . . .  . . .  . . .  . . .  . . .  . . .  . . .  . . .  . .          -     - - - - - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  -     -          . . .
October 2. 1987 09: 44



ANNEX 3-3
Page 9 of 11
REPUBtIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
REHtBICITta7I0t El DItVELOPPEtMENl SECltUR EfiCtTtON
Table 23  Cft8PCITE O ItiPRESSION INRAP
tetatlod Cost table
tItCFAI
*Brsadovn ot lotals Itnc   tont
(us$1
Q,*nt, * ty                                          local
........  - - -  ......   ... ... --------el                       Duties   A
Unit       1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 Total  Unit Cost   for  Eatch. 1lixesl  laxs    lotal
I  tNVESttENt COS1S
A  AMElIORATIOW SERVICE IMPRESSION INRAP
'  EQUIPtEMET 0 IMtPRESSION
PRESSE - OFFSET  /a                          Units           I          -                           I  13,868.228        51.900                 -   51.900
rREt INSTALLAtION ASSURANCE                  Units                           -          -           1   3. 151. 870      11.796       -             1179S
PIECES OE RECHtANGE PRESSE                   Unite                -    .                                                  2. 783                     2. 763
CARA lb                                      Units           I                                      '      977.080        3.757                      3.657
BANC Of REPRODUCTION                         Uni,e           1               --                            378.224        1,415                      t1.415
71TREUSE                                     Unito           I                     -          -     I      945.561        3.539                 -    3.539
PIECES DE RECHlANGE                          Unite           1                                      1      157,594          590                        590
PETITE MATERIEL IMPRESSION  /c              Unitt           1    -    -    ,           -           I      189, 112         708                         708
MACHINE ECRIRE  /d                           Units           I                                      1      567.337        2. 123                     2. 123
Stib-Total EOUtPEMENT 0 IMPRESSION                                                                                          78.490                  -   78. 490
2  FORNATION SERVICE IMPRESSION
BOURSES FAlRICATION  /e                    Hoast   MoIs           5    5           -          -    10      630.374       24,051                     24.051
VOYAGE                                    All,rfr,tour            I    I                            2   1.246.595         9. t3       - I9.513
Stb-Total fORM4ATION SERVICE INPRESSION                                                                                     33.564                 -   33. 564
Stb-lotaI AMEIIORTTION SERVICE iMOPRESSION INRRP                                                                               112 054                    I 12. 054
total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                            112,054       -            112.054
It RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATION PRESSE
ENTRETIEN / MATERIELS                        Par  nn.                                                 -                     5 741  3. 546         -    9. 287
Sub total OPERATIONi PRESSE                                                                                                    5,741  3,546           -    9.287
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                               5.741  3. 546         -    9,2?7
Total                                                                                                                              117_,95  3,546             T121.341
/a  32x46 avec I coul.ur
lb  *3 avec 2 lentilles
Jc  S Ra. tubes fluo. 2 potentioat.rs flu*. t Plaqt   Alttuglas 220x110
/d  ESP*tent proporticrnelle
/0  Beux bourses chdqus pour 5 sois
October 9. 1987  09: 44



ANNEX 3-3
Page 10 of 11
REPUBllOUt CENIRAFRICAINE
RENasltIAtltiot Et DEvEtIPPEP ENTr SECTEUR EDUCATION
Table 24 CAPACttt 0 ACHAT tIVRES SCOLAIRE
Detailed Cost Table
itcral
Breeadoan of Totals Incl. Co"t
tuSS)
Ouent i - y                                               local
-------------------------------  -------------                          (Exci.    Duties    A
Unit       1988   1989    1990 1991 1992 1993 1994  Intal         Unit Cost  For  Etch  ltSxs)  Taxes          Total
I. INVESTEIIEt COSTS
A ACtrAI LIVRES 1988 ET DEVEIOPPEtRENT CaPACilE ACHAt FUTURE
-- - - - - --     - - ... ... . ...... ...    ... . .... . .
1  FOR1tAFION RESPONSAStES NATIONAL
SEINIAIRE ACHATS LIVRES  /a                                    1101ie jout      30                -   30   30           -        90       t. 373                 424                   424
Sub-Total FORIIAtIOII RESPOIISASLES NfIIlOIIAL                                                                                                                 -    414                    4?4
2  PFtEPAR4At0lE APPEL 0 OFFRE
SPECIALtSTE DOSSIER A 0                                         Hosix jour      50                                               SO    tt0,316        t9.704        -         -     19.704
PERDIEN                                                         H<oiae Tour     28                                                28     42. 550        4.256       -         -      4. 256
VotaGf                                                         Al er/reotur       I                                                I  1, 246 695       4.454        -         -      4.454
Sub-Total PREPARA ION APPEL 0 OfFRt                                                                                                                       28.413       -828,413
3. EVALUATION PECAGOGIOUE
SPECIALISIE NtAlNEftS PEDAGGIQUE J EDllEUR                     "aii jour       20                -    -     S    -               35    110.3tS        14.387       -                14.,387
PERDIEN                                                         NORM  jour      14                -    -   10           -         24     42.550        3.801        -                3.801
VOYAGE                                                         Al4ler/rtour       t         -    -    -    t            -          2  1. 24. 95        9.355                  -      9.355
Sub-total EYAltUAT ION PEDAGCOIQUE                                                                                                                        27.543       -         -      27,543
4 EYAI.tUAtiOI SPECilfiCA1OtNS PROOUCTION
SPECIAtISTE IttPRESSION - PRODUCTION                            Home jour       20          -    -    -   1S    -    -            35    110.316        14,387       -                14.387
PERDIEN                                                         Hamm jour       14          -    -    -   10    -    -            24     42. 550        3.80t       -                3.801
VOYAGE                                                          tlIer/retour      I          -    -    -    I    -    -            2  1. 246, 69S       9.355                         9.355
S$b-Totel EVAEtUATION SPECIFICATIONS PRODUCTION                                                                                                           27.543       -                27.543
5 ADJOICATIO1tt tRCt
CDWSIILtt Altl SIAROIC lE tlES                                    _m  jewr       -         50    -    -                            o50    tO.318      20, 78?       -         -     20.78?
PERCEN                                                            _* jon         -         T      -    - 3030                            42.550         4.8tt       -         -      4.81t
"VASE                                                             Uie            -          2    -    -                            2  1.246S95          9. 39?                       9.397
Sib--Total AOdICATIOR NARItt                                                                                                                              34.995                       '4- 99
S*-tlotel  C0       ttIES It98   EK IVEtOMtMENIT CAPACITE ACOAT FUtURE                                                                                     118.495    424          _     t8.9t9
B.  6tlT LIltES
LIVUS mIutES                                                         tnito          -    25.620  -25.620                                        946       95.644       -         -     95.544
tlItES EtUPIAItS                                                     Unite           -   404.0T    -                           404.?00          851   1.359.t40        -         -  1.39.140
S%b6lotal AM? lItES                                                                                                                                      1.455.304       -         -  1.455.384
C. IItEVENU:It CONSULTANTS PFlt OtBIT SERVICE AONS?
SPECIAtlIStES ACNAT                                                Mm  MotS          -          -    -    2    2    -    -            4  3. 72.244        59.100       -         -      59.100
PERSIE                                                                  ow                           -   220   0    -    -           40  85. tO0          13.298       -         -      13. 298
VOYAGE                                                            Al l.r/wotg        *                     2    2    .*  1.246.693                        19.4*1       -         -      to.481
Sib-Total INTERVE7tIOI  CONSIIltTAIS POUR OMClt SERVICE ACSSt                                                                                                9t.878        -               91.t78
total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                                                        . 66ss, 75?    424           1 666. E 8t
Total                                                                                                                                                          t.665.757    424          -  1. 66   181
/a  IS persoroe
Octobew 9. t957  09:44



ANNEX 3-3
Page 11 of 11
REPtlBlIOUE CENTRAFRlLIaNE
RENABIIITATION ET DEVEEOPPFttENT SECtEUR EDUCATION
Table 25 CAPACIIE DISIRIBUTION LIVRES SCOtAIRES
Detailed Cost Table
Breakqdown of totals Endl. Cont
Q.ant lly
--------  - -----------tocal   lEadt    Outles  8
Univt      ;988   1989    IqqO 1991 1992 1993 1994  lotat        UtOl COSt  for  ENCh.    Taxes)         Iatex5    lota)
I  INVESTMENT COStS
A. AREtIORATION STOCKAGE CENTRAt tlVRES SCOtAIRES
I. REIIABIIIAION PHYSIQUE
RE4A81FITATtON ENTREPOT BANGUI                                        m2                    436    -                              436      51,784       45,091        51.490         -   96.5Pt
RE"A81tITATION ENTREPOTS BANBARI . BOUAR ET BANGASSOU               Unite                     3                                     3-  3  3. 968. 761  23. 778       27, 153        -   50. 931
NOSYLETTES POUR SFIS                                                Unite           2               .                               2    266.002         1.991                       -    1. 991
Sub-Total REHABILIATION PHYSIQUE                                                                                                                           70.860        '8.643         -  149.503
2  FORMtATION RtSPONSABtES NATIONAI SPItS
BOURSE CHEF SlIS                                                  Hone MO's         3                          -                    3    630374          6.756             -         -    6. 756
BOURSES MAGAlZINER                                                Hor* vinols       3                    -                          3    630.374         6.756                           r6. 756
VOYAGE                                                           Aller/,-etour      7          -                                    2  1.246.695         8. 907                            .907
Sub lotal FORMATION RESPONSABLES NATIONAI SFNS                                                                                                             22. 418                           22.418
Sub lotal AMEIIORATION S10CIIAGE CENTRAL tIVRtS SCOLAIRES                                                                                                     93.279        78.643          -  171,921
8  SYSTEtME DlSTRI8U1t10
I INTERVENTION CONSUi TANTS POUR DISTRIBUTION
SPECIAtISTES DISTRIBUTION                                         Ntoiue rois               0 5  0 5  0 5                -        I 5  3, 782.244       21,770                           21. 770                 Ut
VOTAGE                                                           AleIr/eotoutr                 I    I    I                          3  1,746.695        14.352                            t4.352
Sub-total INtERVENTtON CONSULTANTS POUR OtSIRI8UTION                                                                                                       36. 122             -         -   36. t22
2. FRAIS OISTRiBitTION
LOCATION TRANSPORT BANGUI - PREFECIURES                            ttm/tonte        -   150,000    --                           0.000          33       t9.617                            t9.617
Sub-Total FRAIS DISTRIBUTION                                                                                                                               19. 617                           19, 617
Sub-Total SYSTEltE DISTRIBUtlOtt                                                                                                                              55. 739             -             55. 739
C  STOCKAGE NIVEAU PREFECTURES - ECOLES
AMELIORATION NAGASINS REGIONAt                                          Unite          -               4    5    5    5                19  4, 960 951     195.662       1t4. 093         -  349,755
ACHAT MAILES POUR SAILES DES CtASSES                                    Unite                 3.000                                3.000       8.030       95. 113                           95. 113
Sub-Total STOCKAGE NIVEAU PREFECTURES - ECOLES                                                                                                               290.775        154,093         -  444.8t8S
Totol INVESTM4ENT COSTS                                                                                                                                          439.793       232.735         -  672. 528
Total                                                                                                                                                             439.793       232. 735        -  672. 528
October 9. 1987  09:44



- 96 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 1 of 19
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC/REPUBLIQUE CENTRE AFRICAINE
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/
PROJET DE REHABILITATION ET iDE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'EDUCATION
SUMARY OF PRIMARY  SCHOOL REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE/
PROGRAMME DE REHABILITATION ET D'ENTRETIEN DES E"OLES PRIMAIRES
A - Diagnostic du contexte actuel
1.           Situation du Patrimoine bati.   La RCA dotee d'un des taux de
scolarisation primaire les plus eleves d'Afrique (78%), posside en
contrepartle uti patrimoine d'installations d'enseignement primaire en
pleine d6gradation dont le Gouvernement, dans lea contraintes budgetaires
actuelles, ne peut pas assumer les responsabilit6s de sauvegarde et de
gestion. En effet, parmi les 4.107 salles de classe primaires que compte
la RCA (866 a Bangui, la capitale et 3.241 en zone rurale), environ SO0
requierent d'importrnts travaux de r6habilitation dOs a une absence quasi
totale d'entretien et meme dans certains cas au pillage et aux
d6pr6dations. Les 40% restant sont composes d'abris provisoires et de
constructions dites permanentes qui ne sont pas ameliorables. Un
inventaire du patrimoine r6alis6 dans lea 218 gcoles (1.432 salles de
classe et 121.817 4leves) des trois regions du projet (OUAKA, BANGUI, et
MBOMOU) a permis de dresser le bilan suivant: (voir tableau ci-dessous)
2)- wQT00! 14E DA4S  c 'R01S PE6180S CU 'ROJET
CCNTEITE ACTUEL                            PROJET PROPOSE
4OMBRE  NOfBRE  NON8RE  PATIO   NO!BRE  NOMBRE  NOHORE  NONBRE  TOTAL   NOMBRE  NOMBRE  TOTAL
RESIONS    E:OLES  SALLES  ELEVES  ELEVES  ECOLES  SALLES  SALLES  SALLES  INTERY.  LOSEDENT LOSEMENT INTERY.
PROJE'     EX!ST.  EXIST.            SALLES  RETENUES A REHAB. A REMPL. A CREER SALLES   A REHAB. A CREER  LOSEHENT
la)     lb)      (c)     (d)               fbi      id)
I Q.C.4.          960   4,10'  799,b92       75              -       -            -        -        -        -
: fAh6ul         69      866  84,928       98      6b       311             -         31      -       -        -
CLK O'           gt94    346  24,(89      710       :4      135      119      49      303        a      41       4Q
4 IPI0lU           65l    201  !2.581        63       5        75     126       68      269       !,      38       5h
TnTAL2'+.+4,    2:3   1,413  :1,817        96      185      521     2JS      117      883       20      79
: oa0are RCA       2?7      344      399    1!4X
7. cosoare 2t344                                      857.    !71       171      91      621      2 OX    80
fa): interventic:s !usti4iees a .ause de 1'etat des *batiaent et de la demande srolaire
(b : structure permanente durab!e correspondant aux nories mziricales acceotees dans le oQvs dans le contexte
des ressources et du deve1oopeoent: ou 3trurt;re oroviso:re qui aPres un ipvest:ssemenf en re:aratio rereottriit
le raseneo le bit:nent a u' ^iveau de norre acceXtable i-. Iui oermettra d'etre utilise ceptdar' a rc ins d:y ans.
;.': 5tr;:tLire ste oenanente -,on aselhoratle -our inr rout n'eyredant odS 'a ocutie d'-ne :onstruct;cn neuve,
fdW: ccur eeree-tre de s6tisfa:e !a denarse rcrres:,nd er ^enera' a la diparition d'une str%ctre nrov:sc:s
.- - -- - -



- 97 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 2 ol 19
2.        Cadre institutionnel existant
(a) Au niveau central, la Direction des Constructions et des
gquipements scolaires (DCES) du MEN qui relave de la Direction
Generale de l'Administration et des Finances (DGAF) est charg6e
de tout ce qui concerne la construction, la refection,
l'entretien et l'quipement de l'ensemble des locaux scolaires.
La DCES est notamment responsable: (i) d'administrer, pianifier
et superviser les travaux de construction scolaire; (ii) de
centraliser les informations sur l1'tat du pLtrimoine;
(iii) d'elaborer un programme d'interventions en fonction des
priorites et des moyens disponibles; (iv) de suivre l1'volution
des couts de constructi.n; (v) de mettre en place un rgseau de
services decentralises; (vi) d'elaborer et mettre en oeuvre un
programme de formation des chefs d'etablissement en matiere
d'entretien; et (vii) de gerer les moyens materiels en liaison
avec la DGAF et la Cellule Informatique du Cabinet du Ministre,
notamment par l'informatisation. Jusqu'ici, faute de
responsables possedant suffisamment d'exp6rience, ladite
organisation n'a pas encore pu accomplir sa mission. Tres vite,
le diagnostic etabli a aemontre que la seule solution permettant
dtatteindre ces objectifs consistait a restructurer la DCES et a
entamer une deentralisation;
(b)  Au niveau regional, les Inspections Academiques qui reprgsentent
les services du MEN assurent le bon fonctionnement et le controle
de tous les etablissements relevant de leurs juridictions. En
matiere de constructions et 6quipements scolaires, ces
inspections ne disposent d'aucun moyen, d'oiu la proposition de
les doter de conseillers techniques;
(c) Au niveau des collectivites locales, seules les communes, a la
differeace des villages, des Sous-Prefectures et Prefectures
interviennent en matiere d'etablissements d'anseignement
fondamental;
(d) Au niveau des ecoles, seules les Associations de Parents d'eleves
(APEs) se manifestent parfois activement pour la construction ou
l'entretien des batiments. Par contre le degre tres inegal de
responsabilit6 en matiere de conv-rsation du patrimoine scolaire
a ete relev6 chez les directeurs d'ecole. Le contraste est
saisissant entre ecoles voisines, selon la maniere dont, se
heurtant aux memes difficultes, leurs responsables ont ou non su
mainte-ir le patrimoine qui leur 6tait confie.  D'oi l'extreme
importance attachee a preparer les mattres a leurs
responsabilites, a les y soutenir et encourager leur comportement
en cette matiere;
3.        Financement
(a) Au niveau central, s'il repr6sente le quart du Budget de l'Etat,
celui de i'Education Nationale ne consacre que 4.5% de ses
credits (soit moins de 400 millions de francs CFA) aux frais de
fonctionnement (et pratiquement rien a l'entretien des bgtiments:



98 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 3 of 19
en 1987 pres de 1.000 &coles primaires devaient se partager 9
millions de francs CFA);
(b) Au niveau r6gional, en l'absence d'une programmation budg6taire
des frais de fonctionnement pour chaque inspection acadgmique,
ces dernieres n'ont aucun moyen de gerer un budget;
(c) Au niveau des collectivitgs locales, seules les communes,
disposant, a la difference des villages, Sous-Prefectures et
Prefectures, d'un budget relativement autonome, peuvent etre
appelees a contribuer financierement aux charges d'entretien des
installations scolaires. Ieurs ressources sont restreintes
depuis q't'en 1982 1'Etat ne leur verse qu'une subvention
forfaitaire, mais elles disposent aussi de ressources propres,
toujours infgrieures au montant de la subvention;
(d) Au niveau des villages, sans personnalit6 financiere, les
villages, n'en representent pas moins un potentiel gconomique:
ils maintiennent le tissu social rural, gardent 1'acc6s aux
ressources naturelles, et accueillent un nombre croissant de
dgSus de l1enseignement et de la ville. On aurait tort de ne pas
penser a eux pour la conservation (voire l'extension) du
patrimoine gducatif. Homologue urbain du village, le quartier
est, en Centre Afrique encore plus disparate sociologiquement que
celui-1a. I1 n'est pourtant pas impossible de lui faire prendre
conscience d'interets communs A promouvoir par un effort
solidaire, comme le montrent, par exemple, certaines realisations
du Developpement Communautaire Urbain (exemple: le quartier BOY
RABE de Bangui);
(e) Au niveau des Associations (APE), les familles, dans leur grande
majorit6, ont de petits moyens financiers qui ne croissent pas.
Toutes sont cependant tenues de contribuer au cout de ltducation
de leurs enfants et d'acquitter A cette fin une redevance
scolaire. Les sommes que representent cette redevance scolaire
sont trop precaires pour qu'on ne les gere pas de facon aussi
economique, sure et transparente que possible. Jusqu'ici les
familles contribuent tres in6galement a la conservation et a
l'entretien du patrimoine scolaire; elles considerent qu'il
appartient a la puissance publique d'y faire face. Afin de
renverser cette tendance preoccupante, le Gouvernement, face a de
serieuses contraintes de ressources, a decide de mobiliser en
faveur de l'enseignement primaire des sources de financement
complementaire et de substitution au budget de l'Etat, deleguant
aux regions et notaument aux APEs le soin de financer en partie
la construction, l'equipement et le materiel p6dagogique par le
biais des contributions (cotisations, taxes, dons ...).
B - Stratzgie propos6e par le projet.  Tenant compte du diagnostic du
contexte actuel et de l'objectif principal qui consiste a rehabiliter
l'environnement des espaces educatifs tout en sauvegardant la valeur des
investissements realises et futurs, le projet prgvoit:



- 99 -                    ANNEX 3-4
Page 4 of 19
1.        Cadre institutionnel:
(a) la restructuration et le renforcement de le DCES et sa
dgcentralisation au niveau regional;
(b) la creation d'une capacitg technique au sein des inspections
academiques des trois regions du projet par l'adjonction a ces
derniares d'unites regionales des constructions et des
egguipements scolaires (11RCES). Dans le fil de la politique de
r6gionalisation marquee par la creation de cinq Inspections
d'Acadgmie, ces unites (URCES) relevant techniquement de la
Direction des Constructions et des Equipements Scolaires, feront
partie de l'equipe constitu6e autour de chaque Inspecteur
d'Academie et placee sous son autorite. Chargees des quelques
dizaines d'ecoles de leur sectaur geographique, elles devront
tenir l'inventaire detaille des batiments et des equipements, les
visiter regulierement et en surveiller la maintenance. Chaque
annee, elles proposeront, au conseil de chaque Acole, le
programme chiffr6 des travaux d'entretien a realiser et en
discuteront les modalites d'execution sur les ressources locales.
Apres aeoption de ce budget, elles en deviendront mattres
d'oeuvre, coordonnant et controlant l'activite des mattres,
eleves et familles, comme des ent:eprises appelges a intervenir.
Les URCES seront basges, l'une a Bangui, et les autres a Ippy et
Grimary pour la regior. de la Ouaka et a Bangassou pour la region
du Mbomou. Chaque URCES sera composee pendant trois annees d'un
volontaire et d'un expert national; a l'issue de la troisi4me
annge, le volontaire sera remplace par un adjoint;
(c) la formation des cadres des centres pedagogiques r6gionaux (CPR)
et leur participation aux campagnes d'information auprgs des
autorites locales, notamment aupres des communes, directeurs
d'ecoles et APEs pour les sensibiliser aux techniques courantes
d'entretien et les inciter A prendre une part active a la
preservation du patrimoine scolaire; et
(d)  pour concretiser l'engagement solidaire des parents et des
educateurs dans la prise en charge du patrimoine scolaire, il
sera cr66 pour l'Enseignement Fondamental des Conseils
d'Etablissement. En feront partie, a parite de pouvoir d'une
part le bureau de l'APE, d'autre part le Directeur (et les
mattres, le cas echeant). Toutes les decisions y seront prises
conjointement, notamment l'adoption des budgets annuels
d'entretien.  Les fonds contribues seront deposes a un compte
bancaire et tous les raglements effectues par cheque sous la
double signature du President de l'APE et du Directeur de
l1'cole. Les membres de droit du Conseil pourraient y coopter un
ou deux representants de l'autoritg traditionnelle, chef de
village ou notable. Il serait heureux que soient aussi appelgs
au conseil de l1'cole l'un ou l'autre de ces jeunes, rentrgs au
village et qui, jouissant d'un certain prestige, contribuent
souvent aux efforts publics ou prives d'animation des
populations.



- 100 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 5 of 19
2.        Financement.  La reduction de la participation financiere qui
incombe a l'Etat sera accomplie grace:
(a) a la reduction des besoins de remplacement des ecoles et a la
reduction des coOts d'amortissement annuel par gleve, en
favorisant le d6veloppement de techniques de construction a
faibles couits d'investissement initial et d'entretien; ces
dernieres, essentiellement fondees sur l'architecture
traditionnelle, impliqueront un fort coefficient de main-d'oeuvre
locale et dans tout la mesure du possible, l'emploi de materiaux
locaux. Cette strategie a egalement pour effet de limiter lea
apports en devises et l'effet de la hausse des prix des materiaux
importes;
(b)  a l'iimportance donnee aux programmes de construction e:ecutis par
les collectivites;
(c)  au transfert des responsabilit6s en matidre de construction et
d'entretien aux regions et communautes villageoises, ceci
notamment grace a l'appropriation lgale des ecoles par les
villages;
(d)  a l'accroissement des collectes des APEs et a une rationalisation
de l'empiloi de ces fonds. Pour ce faire, il conviendra de
simplifier la collecte de la redevance scolaire, de la concentrer
sur chaque ecole et d'associer les associations de Parents
dVE16ves aux decisions et controles d'utilisation des fonds.
3.        Choix technologigues.  Le deuxieme projet education (Cr. 1359-CA)
a utilise pour la construction/rehabilitation des salles de classe une
technologie bien connue (blocs sable-ciment creux de 15cm sur semelle en
beton arme, dalle en beton, charpente bois, toiture en toles aluminium de
6/10 sur pannes 8x16 avec des pentes de 10% et des menuiserie en panneaux
de bois plein. Pour la mise en oeuvre, les mat6riaux gtaient fournis
directement par le projet, les entreprises locales ne fournissant que la
main-d'oeuvre. L'experience a montre que la centralisation des
approvisionnements (tous les materiaux, a l'exception faite des agregats,
etaient achemin5s A partir de Bangui sur les bases regionales chargees de
les redistribuer ensuite sur les sites), et la c nceltration de la
production des blocs de b6ton dans les bases regionales (chaque base
alimentant les diffgrents chantiers) r6pondaient a un souci de qualitg,
mais en revanche, produisaient des surcouts importants en doublant les
frais de transport et de manutention et g6n6raient m^eme des pertes non
negligeables. En conclusion, il a fte retenu pour le projet propose
(i) d'utiliser davantage les ressources locales; (ii) de reduire autant que
possible les mat6riaux importes; (iii) d'utillser des techniques de
construction simples; (iv) d'obtenir une durabilite des b^atiments d'environ
25 ans; (v) de r6duire les co'uts d'entretien; (vi) d'eviter de centraliser
la fabrication des elements lourds au niveau de Bangui ou dans des bases
regionales; et (vii) lorsque necessaire, de pr6voir l'approvisionnement
directe Pangui-chantiers. Dans cette optique, les technologies suivantes
ont gtg retenues:



- 101 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 6 of 19
(a)  Pour la construction de nouvelles salles de classe: une premiere
intervention est prevue avec le concours d'entreprises
specialisees pour la mise en oeuvre d'une ossature en bois local
(MUKULUNGU dit "bois de fer" pour les pieces principales,
imputrescible et inattaquable par les termines et SAPPELI pour
les autres pi6ces) reposant sur des ancrages en beton et
supportant une toiture en tole galvanisee 6/10 fabriqu6e
localement. Une seconde intervention fera essentiellement appel
a l'apport de la communaute encadree par les URCES pour
l'achavement de cette ossature; ces travaux comporteront un
soubassement en pierre, un dallage en terre battue, les murs de
remplissages realises en briques cuites ou en blocs de terre
pressee et les portes en panneaux de bois plein. La salle de
classe mesurant 7mx9m (soit 1.16m2 pour 54 eleves selon les
normes 6ducatives, pouvant descendre jusqu'a 0.79m2 pour 81
6leves en cas d'effectifs pletoriques) sera 6quip6e d'un tableau
noir peint sur enduit ciment, d'un placard incorpore et de 27
tables bancs a deux places (130x60) permettant de recevoir 3
61hves dans des conditions acceptables par le MEN;
(b) Pour la rehabilitation des salles de classe: A l'exception des
paillotes (classees sous la categorie abris provisoires, censees
etre entretenues par la collectivite ou etre remplacges), les
salles de classe (des trois regions du projet) 'en dur" et "en
semi-dur" sont classees en trois categories suivant la gravite
des degats et les modes de construction: (i) petites reparations;
(ii) grosses reparations; et (iii) non reparables pour un cout
raisonnable (si le montant de la reparation devait s'81ever a
plus de la moitig du cout d'une construction neuve de meme
standard). Les petites reparations, notamment pour les classes
de Bangui, comprennent la refection des enduits et peintures et,
surtout la reprise des scellements des menuiseries, des chapes et
le nivellement des abords pour eviter les eaux de ruissellement.
Les grosses reparations, designees par le terme "rehabilitation"
qui representent la majorite des classes rurales comprennent en
plus des interventions precedentes, la remise en etat des
6lements structurels tels que charpentes, toitures, murs fissur6s
et affouillements des fondations. Pour la refection des e6lments
structurels, le mieme type d'ossature bois et couverture que pour
les constructions neuves sera utilis6 afin d'obtenir une
homogeneite du patrimoine a entretenir (les elements modulaires
de charpente ont ete etudies en ce sens pour permettre leur
emploi dans les diverses situations (type de batiments et
dimensions);
(c) Pour l'entretien p6riodique: Apres la rghabilitation des classes
des trois r6gions du projet, la responsabilite de leur entretien
courant et des reparations mineures sera transferee aux
etablissements, en application de la nouvelle politique
prgconisee par le Gouvernement. Dans ce cadre, les conseils
d'etablissemen. recevront les appuis techniques suivants: (i) un
guide d'entretien decrivant les taches regulieres a accomplir et
les manieres de repondre a des degats mineurs; (ii) un livret
d'entretien pour le suivi des performances des responsables



- 102 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 7 of 19
d'etablissement; (iii) une trousse 5 outils et une dotation de
materiaux essentiels non disponibles localement; (iv) des
conseils techniques 6pisodiques venant des URCES; et (v) une
eventuelle assistance firanci6re (ou en intervention d'artisans)
discutee avec l'inspect'on academique et l'URCES pour repondre a
des degats imprevisibles entrranant des reparations urgentes
depassant les capacitgs de lietablissement (il est prevu un
maximum de 20 interventions par annAe de cette riature entre 1990
et 1993).
C - Mgthodologie pour la mise en oeuvre du programme de r6habilitation et
de maintenance
1.        Preparation:  Sur financement du Deuxiame Projet et durant la
phase de preparation qui a precede les negociations, le Gouvernement, avec
la participation de consultants (UNESCO, Architechna et Louis Berger
International) a prgpare les elements suivants: (i) l'emplacement, la
nature et le cout des travaux de rehabilitation des salles de classe et des
logements des Directeurs d'ecole dans les trois r6gions du projet; (ii) un
prototype de construction de salles de classe, r6sultat d'une evaluation
des modales utilises par le Deuxi6me Projet Education et par les
collectivites locales; (iii) une strategie pour 1'entretien preventif et la
gestion du patrimoire; (iv) l'avant projet pour l'edition de guides de la
construction, de guides et de livrets d'entretien; et (v) la methodologie
de mise en oeuvre du projet.
2.        Premiere 6tape: Le projet prevoit la formation initiale
(a) du Directeur de la DCES en matiere de technologie appropri6e et
d'etablissement des normes (10 mois);
(b)  du responsable des operations de rehabilitation et d'entretien du
patrimoire (10 mois);
(c) des futurs techniciens des URCES (volontaires et experts
nationaux) sous forme de seminaires de demarrage;
(d) des responsables regionaux (Inspections Acad&miques, CPR,
prefectures, autres departements techniques) sous forme de
seminaires de a6marrage dans chacune des regions du projet.
3.        Deuxieme etape: Mobilisation des ressources communautaires
(a) visite d'information (1 journ6e) Une equipe composee d'un
conseiller de 1'URCES, d'un representant de l'inspection
academique et d'un representant de l'Etat (Pr6fecture/
Sous-Pr6fecture), rencontrera le directeur de l1'cole,
1'Association des Parents d'eleves, le chef du village et les
notables pour leur expliquer les activites envisagees et les
responsabilites des parties concernees. (Une brochure ;ecrivant
le projet leur sera laissee);
(b)  d6liberation de la communaute (4 semaines)  Sous l'autorite du
chef du village, le Directeur de l1'cole et l'Association des



- 103 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 8 of 19
Parents d'elves se rguniront pour etablir la liste des
contributlons possibles telles que la communaute les conCoit;
(c) engagement du village (2 journees) Environ six semaines apres la
premiere visite d'information, la meme equipe reviendra pour
expliquer les details techniques, expliquer les consequences a
long-terme du programme, la participation financiere attendue de
la collectivite, et les responsabilites mutuelles des parties
interessees. A l'issue de la premiere journee, et si la
communaute manifeste son interet, l'idee d'un contrat sera
present6e. Dans ce cas, un conseil d'etablissement, compose du
Directeur de lVkcole et de l'Association des parents d'eleves (ou
a defaut du chef du village), enregistrera avec le conseiller de
1'URCES la contribution villageoise (fonds collectes, main
d'oeuvre disponible, materiaux, logement directeur ecole,
cloture, Installations sanitaires), les renseignements techniques
sur les gttes de materiaux et les points d'eau A proximite. Ce
ntest gu'apr6s l'engagement de la cowmunautg, qu'une convention
sera passee entre l'Inspection Academique et le comite constitug
stipulant les engagements mutuels.
4.        Troisieme etape: Rehabilitation des ecoles
(a) la DCES assurera la preparation technique des marchgs de genie
civil (ossature/couverture, y compris le transport, la pose et le
pilotage du chantier), de fournitures et de services;
(b) sous la supervision de la DCES et des URCES, les gros travaux
seront realises sous contrat avec une entreprise qui
approvisionnera le chantier par ses propres moyens de transport.
L'apport communautaire sera constitue par la mise a disposition
(selon la convention pass6e avec le Conseil d'ecole) de main
d'oeuvre non qualifiee et de materiaux locaux; et
(c)  les URCES seront particulierement chargges de coordonner et
d'encadrer l'achevement du gros oeuvre et la rgalisation par la
communaut6 des travaux a sa charge.
5.        Quatrieme etape: Mise en place du systeme d'entretien
A compter de la deuxieme ann6e de realisation des travaux de
rehabilitation dans la region concernee par le projet, les URCES, sous la
supervision des Inspections Academiques et de la DCES, debuteront le
programme de mise en place du systeme d'entretien. Forts de la credibilite
qu'ils auront acquise a l'occasion des travaux de rehabilitation, les
conseillers des URCES seront charges de (i) participer a la mise en place
des Conseils d'Ecole; (ii) ronduire les seminaires villageois de formation;
(iii) distribuer les guides d'entretien, les trousses A outils et les
materiaux prevus (chaux, pointes et visses); (iv) soutenir et encourager
les Conseils a'Ecole; et (V) assurer la liaison entre le MEN, les
Inspections Academiques, les autorites regionales/lozales et la DCES.



- 104 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 9 of 19
PROPOSITION DES STATUS DES CONSEILS D'ECOLE
1.        Objet.  Il est institue dans chacun des etablissements de
l'Enseignement Fondamental, un Conseil d'Ecole charge d'associer le
personnel enseignant et les parents d'eleves, reunis en Association de
Parents d'Eleves (APE), dans la recherche des meilleures conditions du
fonctionnement de l1'cole et de son insertion dans son environnement.
2.        Composition.  Font de droit partie du Conseil d'Ecole, le
Directeur (et le cas echeant les Mattres places sous son autorit6) ainsi
que le bureau de l'APE. Les Niembres de droit peuvent coopteL un ou deux
representants de l'autorite traditionnelle (Chefs de village ou de
quartier) qui ne seralent pas deja Membres de l'APE. Le Responsable de
l'Unite Regionale des Constructions et des Equipements scolaires (URCES)
dont releve l'ecole fait de droit partie du Conseil ou il siege avec voix
consultative. L'Inspecteur d'Academie, l'Inspecteur de l'Enseignement
Fondamental, le Sous-Prefet et le Maire de la Commune dont releve l'ecole
peuvent de droit assister aux reunions du Conseil, et y exprimer les avis
ou faire les communications qu'il estimeraient utiles.
3.        Administration.  Le Conseil est administre conjointement et
solidairement par le bureau de l'APE et le Directeur de l'Ecole. Le
President de l'APE est de droit President du Conseil. En cas d'absence
motivee, il peut se faire suppleer par le Vice-President de l'APE. Le
Directeur de l'Ecole est de droit Vice-Pr6sident du Conseil. Le Tresorier
et le Secrgtaire de l'APE sont de droit respectivement Tr6sorier et
Secretaire du Conseil. Les fonctions de Membre du Conseil sont gratuites.
4.        Ressources.  Les ressources financieres du Conseil sont
constituees par: (i) les cotisations des Membres de l'APE; (ii) les
cotisations des Membres du Conseil non-adherents a l'APE; (iii) les dons et
legs; (iv) les subventions dont il pourrait beneficier de la part de la
Commune ou de toute autre Institution ou Organisme- et (v) les emprunts
qu'il pourrait contracter pour realiser des travaux de reparation ou de
construction dument approuves par l'URCES et l'Inspecteur d'Acadimie.  Les
fonds ainsi reunis sont obligatoirement deposes das leur encaissement par
le Tresorier a un compte bancaire fonctionnant sous la double signature du
President de l'APE et du Directeur de l'Ecole.
5.        Le Conseil a pour missions: (i) d'une part de veiller a la bonne
insertion de l'ecole dans gon environnement; et (ii) d'autre part de
contribuer et faire contribuer les populations des villages et quartiers
servis par l'Ecole A son bon fonctionnement, a la conservation de son
patrimoine, eventuellement a sa renovation ou son extension. En debut
d'annee scolaire, il discute et adopte son budget, qui, s'agissant des
batiments et equipements, lui est propose par l'URCES concernee et doit
prgvoir, en recettes, les cotisations des Membres de l'APE et les autres
recettes 6ventuelles (dons, subventions) et, en depenses, les travaux a
realiser, selon quelles modalites et quel calendrier. En cours d'annee, il
veille a la bonne execution de ce budget: (i) versement aux echeances
prevues des cotisations; (ii) dep^ot des sommes ainsi rentrees au compte
bancaire du Conseil; (iii) reglement des factures et memoires vises par
l'URCES; et (iv) execution des travaux et fournitures en nature.



- 105 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 10 of 19
TERMES DE REFERENCE POUR LE RESPONSABLE DE L'UNITE REGIONALE
DES CONSTRUCTIONS ET DES EQUIPEMENTS SCOLAIRES
DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT FONDAMENTAL
DESCRIPTION DE LA FONCTION
1.        Objet de la fonction.  Veiller A la conservation et a 1'entretien
des batiments et equipements de son secteur d'affectation.
2.        Missions.
(a) Savoir. Le Responsable du secteur connait dans le detail chacune
des ecoles de son secteur qu'il visite p6riodiquement. En
particulier, il s'efforce d'identifier les petits entrepreneurs
susceptibles de contribuer A l'execution des travaux d'entretien
ou d'amelioration des batiments scolaires.
(b) Informer:. A l'occasion de chacune de ses visites, il fait part
au Directeur de l1'cole et au Conseil de l'Ecole de ses
observations concernant la conservation et l'entretien de la
concession, des batiments et de l1equipement scolaires et de ses
recommandations quant aux mesures A prendre pour les assurer. Il
consigne ces observations dans le livret d'entretien de 1'ecole;
il rend compte A l'Inspecteur d'Acad'emie, au Chef du Service
Central d'entretien de la DCES ainsi qu'aux Sous-Prefets et aux
Municipalites concern6s de ces visites et, succinctement, des
observations faites;
(c) Organiser:. Il etablit et met A jour, chaque annee, pour chacune
des ecoles de son secteur, un programme chiffrg decrivart les
travaux A rgaliser immediatement et A prgvoir pour les deux
annees suivantes; il les propose aux Conseils d'Ecole de son
secteur et en discute avec eux les modalites et le calendrier de
financement (cotisation des membres de l'APE, dons, contributions
en nature) et d'execution (en regie ou a l'entreprise) sous sa
mattrise d'oeuvre, les reglements (memoires, factures) etant
assures par le Conseil de l'Ecole, mattre de l'ouvrage sous la
double signature du Directeur de l'Ecole et du President de
l'APE.
(d)  Agir   S'agissant de gros travaux, dgpassant les facultes
contributives locales, il en saisit l'Administration Centrale sur
la base d'un dossier argumentg et chiffre. Il classe ces
operations exceptionnelles par ordre d'urgence et de priorite
d6croissantes: Il en informe l'Inspecteur d'Acadgmie et le
Sous-Prefet concerne; et il etablit et transmet par la voie
hirarchique la demande de dotation budgetaire de son secteur au
titre du chapitre du Budget de l'Etat "entretien des ecoles
primaires". Il met en oeuvre de faCon appropriee, les moyens en
personnel et en materiel dont il dispose directement, soit pour
des interventions ponctuelles, soit en concourant A l'ex6cution
des travaux pris en charge par les Conseils d'Ecole; et il
contacte directement, ou par tout autre canal approprie les



- 106 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 11 of 19
entrepreneurs locaux susceptibles de concourir a l'execution des
travaux, negocie les conditions de leur intervention, les guide
et les controle pendant celle-ci.
(e)  Gerer.  Il g8re les personnel, mat6riels et credits dont dispose
irentitg administrative dont il est responsable et il surveille
le bon emploi des moyens financiers et mat6riels reunis pour
l'execution des travaux dont il assure la mattrise d'oeuvre, quel
qu'en soit le mode de financement et d'exgcution.
3.        Liaisons
(a)  Le Responsable de l'URCES releve higrarchiquement de l'Inspecteur
d'Academie et techniquement de la DCES; et
(b)  Il entretient des relations fonctionnelles avec les Inspecteurs
de l'Enseignement Fondamental, les CPR, lea Directeurs d'ecole,
les Associations de Parents d'Eltve et les Municipaliths de son
secteur.
4.        Profil
(a)  Titulaire du BTS Batiment ou d'une qualification equivalente,
voire sup6rieure;
(b)  Au moins trois annees de pratique professionnelle du batiment, de
preference dans les travaux d'entretien;
(c)  Aptitude a agir de faCon autonome; et
(d)  Grandes qualites de relations humaines et de persuasion.
5.        Conditions d'emploi.  Contractuel pour une duree de trois annees
(renouvelable), ii disposera d'un vehicule et construira son propre
logement la premiare annge sur financement du projet. Il travaillera en
6quipe avec un homologue.



ANNEX 3-4
Page 12 of 19
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC/REPUBLIQUE CENTRE AFRICAINE
EDUCATION REHA9ILITATION AND DEVELOPIIENT PROJECTIPROJET DE REHABILITATION ET DE DEVELOPPENENT DE L'EDUCATION
PRItARY CLASSROOWS REHABILITATION/ REHABILITATION DES SALLES DE CLASSE PRI"AIRES
PHYSICAL StATUS OF SCHOOL FACILITIES AND WORKS IDENTIFIED FOR REHABILITATION/
ETAT DES ECOLES ET TRAVAUI IDENTIFIES POUR LA REHABILITATION
SCHOOL  SCHOOL  CLASS    CLASS    CLASS    CLASS    CLASS    CLASS    CLASS    CLASS           HOUSING  HOUSING  HOUSING  CL+HS.
VISITED SELECT. PERNNT   NISSIOW  PERNUT.  PREFAB   SENI         TENPRY   NEV       TOTAL      NEN       PERNNT.  TOTAL    TOTAL
REPAIR   REHAB.   REHAB.   REHAB.   REHAB.   REPLACE  BUILD                   BUILD    REHAB.
------- ------- ----------------- -------- -------- -------__  -------- --_-_---- -- co'n -    ------_- -------- --------t --ere
REGIONS/                      ECOLE   ECOLE   CLASSE   CLASSE   CLASSE   CLASSE   CLASSE   CLASSE   CLASSE   CLASSE    LOST.    LOSE"    LOGT.    CL*LGT.
REGIONS                       VISITEE RETENUE PERRANT. MISSION  DUR         PREFA8   SEtlDUR  PROV       INEXIST. TOTAL       INEKIST. DUR       TOTAL    TOTAL
REPAR, REHAB.   REHAB.   REHAB.   REHAB.   REtPLT.  CREAT.   ax-neu-  CREAT.   REHAB.
SANGUT                             69       69       311                                                                 311         0         0        0        311
OUAKA                              94       64         0       94        34        12        5       119        49       303        41         a       49        352
N3OUNOU                            65       52         0        0        44        18        13      126        69       269        39        12       50        319
____--   - -- -   -          ------     --- --   ------ -_  -- -- -   --- __ -   --------   ------ -_  -- -- -   -- _ - -   -- - - - - - - - O - - - - - - - -   - - - -
TOTAL                             210      195      311        94        79        30       18       245       117       893        79        20       99        992
=arssa=aRt*..=Xan= ...                 ....                                   ....            ... cocst""8ast=easBetDtwt==:s=s=t5a-:==-:s====:e .. 
----------------------------tCST IN '000 CFA.---------                        0)-----------------------------------
UNIT COSTS CONSTRUCTION/
COUTS UNITAIRES 6ENIE CIVIL                          300    1,350       800       Boo      600    2,150    2,150                 2,500      800
UNIT COSTS FURNITURE/
COUTS UNITAIRES hO81LIER                             406      4D6       406       406      406       406       406
UNIT COSTS PEDA6. MATERIALS/
COUTS UNITAIRES RAT. PEDAS.                           27       27        27        27       27        27        27
CONSTRUCTIONf6ENIE CIVIL                         93,300  121,390   bd,748   26,490   11,933  624,964  231,379 1,178,093  224,950   19,369  243,218 1,421,311
FURNITURE/MOSILIER                              126,266   37,548   36,274   13,986    8,462  122,648   45,374   390,559              0         0        0   390,559
PEDA6.NATERIALS/HATERIEL PEOA6.                   8,391    2,436    2,350        906       549    7,946    2,940    25,523           0         0        v    25,523
BASE COST/COUT DE BASE  EN 000 FCFA             227,963  161,364  107,372   41,382   20,943  755,458  279,692 1,594,t74  224,950   19,368  243,219 1,837,3Q7
BASE COST/ COUT DE BASE EN USS                     $726      $514      $342     $132       $67   $2,406      $991    $5,077       $716      *58      $775    $5,85.
NOTE                          For Reqional Cost Dtfferences, the following coefficients have been used             BANGUI :       1.00
Les coefficients d'eloignement suivants ont ete utilises                            DUAKA  :        1.10
MBONOU :       1.18
I-Jun-87



ANNEX 3-4
Page 13 of 19
DETAILED COSTS OF SCHOOL PROTOTYPE CONSTRUCTION IN BANSUI
ANALYSE COUTS CONSTRUCTION DE L'ECOLE PROTOTYPE DE BANGUI
ITEMS                    ,                    IDA       IDA       IDA        APE       APE       APE         TOT       TOT       TOT
ELEMENTS                          FE           FE        LC       TOT          FE        LC       TOT         FE        LC       TOT
CONSTS.MATERIALS/ 
MATERIAUI CONSTRUCTION
aggregats                          02o           0         0         0          0       320       320          0       320       320?
ferraillage                      tOOl:           0         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0
claent                           1001o        520          0      520           0         0         0        520         0       520
boas co44rage                      01            0        53        53          0         0         0          0        53        53
potntes                          1002:           0         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0
toles et charpente                502?      1,173    1,173    2,345             0         0         0      1,173    1,173    2,345
menuisIserrur.                    B02:        432        109      540           0         0         0        432       108       540
peinture et gasoil               1002:         142         0       142          0         0         0        142         0       142
nivellesent              t         0%            0         0         0          0       160                    0       160       160
Sub-Tetal/Sous Total              561:      2,267    1,334    3,600             0       480      4*0       2,267    1,814    4,080
:           : :                                                           :
LABOR SEVICES/                        .
MAIN D'OEUVRE                         t
briques                            OXI           0         0         0          0       300       300          0       300       300
macon                              02o           0         0         0          0       694       694          0       694       694
charpentier                       152?        121       684       805           0         0         0        121       684       S05
manoeuvre                         X0             0         0         0          0       560       560          0       560       560
encadrement                       1511         30        170      200 ;         0         0         0         30       170       71;;
Sub-Total/Sous Total               62?        251       854    1,005            0    1,554    1,554          151    2,400    2,559
TRANSPORT/TRANSPORT              8so%          58         15        73          0         0         0         58        IS        73
A                                                                           a
SUPERVISION/SUPERVISION:          4011           0         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0
?SUs.U.==SS :.s..-ShlwDss.cs====s=ss=ctaS w==S===;==a ::uucntg=scsts n=sa=sffl.s..muuSsus===
TOTAL F.CFA x 000        i        3712      2,476    2,202    4,678 1           0    2,034    2,034        2,476    4,236    6,712
TOTAL S I 000                                7.98      7.01    14.90        0.00      6.48      6.48        7.88    13.49    21.38
?sss-se===  ss?s:sc=s===uhssamcss==z==n== =?as:==a======s==s=ss===n=== =?.         tgss==S====S
PERCENTA6E/FINANCING            >                                   702:                           302?                          100i2
POURCENTASE/DAILLEUR
I S US =         314  CFA
TOTAL AREA/
SURFACE TOTALE -          218  M2
F.CFA/M2 =      30,789        $/I2 a       $98
F.CFA/CLASSE    2,149,995  $/CLASSE         $6,847
-----------   --  un---------------------7-----------------
02-Jun-87



ANNEX 3-4
Page 14 of 19
ADJuSTIENT FOR RE6IONAL CONSTRUCTION COST DIFFERENCES
VARIATIONS RE6IONALES DES COUTS DE CONSTRUCTION
------------------------------------------------                                            in '000 CFA.F
en F.CFA x 000
CLASSROOMS COSTSI                                            HOUSING/
COUtS SALLES DE CLASSE                                       LOSE"ENTS
COST                           REPAIR  REPLACE   REHAB.   REHAB.   REHAB.   REHAB.   REPAIR   PEDAS.              BUILD   REPAIR
ADJUST.  FINANC.        1     PERMNT.    tE"PRY  MISSION  PERMNT.    PREFA         SEMI    FUR%.       MATS
COEFF    FINANCT.       X      REPAR. REMPLAC.   REHAB.   REHAB.   REHAB.   REHAB.   REHAB. DOTATI0O    CONSTR.   REHAB.
RE6IONS      ELD16NI.                           OUR  °ROVIS.  MISSION         OUR    PREFA  112 OUR "OBILIER "AI.SCOL.
BAN6UI           1.00    TOTAL        1001      300      2150      1350        0oo      0OO b0              406        26        2500       800
IDA       701      210      1505       945       560       560       420       406        26           -         -
APE        30X       90      645       405       240       240       180         -         -        2500       800
GUAKA            1.10    TOTAL        100I      321      2301      1445       585       956       642       447        29        2750      80
IDA       702      231      165b      1040       616       616       462       447        29           -         -
APE        30X      90       645       405       240       240       190         -         -        2750       890
IBOMOU           1.18    TDlAL.       1002      339      2421      1520       901       901       676       479        31        2950       944
IDA       702      248      1776      S115       661       661       496       479        31           -         -
APE        301       90      645       405       240       240       190         -         -        2950       944
BASE COST OF PRESSED BRICK PRODUCTION/LAYIN6
COUT DE BASE DE PRODUCTION/MISE EN OEUVRE DE BRIOUES PRESSEES
------------------------------------------------------------_
in 'OOOCFA.F/      en F.CFA x 000
unit   quant. unit cost    cost for.exch. 1c.cost
unite   quant. cout unit    cout  devises cout loc.
PRODUCTION OF 800 BRICKS             ----------------- ------------------------------------
PRODUCTION DE 800 BRIQUES                    U         9        UC         C   F.E. 2        LC
digginglextraction laterite                 *3        16      0.2       3.2        O0       3.2
dgginglextraction argile                    o3         8       0.2       1.6         02     1.8
transport laterite/argile                   r3        24      0.3       7.2        722        2
eixangfmalaxaqe                            h/t         6         1         6         OX        6
pressing/presse                            htj         6         1         6         02       6
brick layers/macons                        hlj         3       1.5      4.5         OX      4.5
supervision/enc&dreaent                   h/j          1         2        2         02        2
depreciation of equipsent
aoortisseeent equipekent                     X         32      300         9      1001        0
39.5      14.2     25.3
362      642
brick/brique FCFA                            U         1        49
brick/brique USS                             U         I     $0.2
------------------------------___------------__--------------



- 110 -ANNEX 3-4
Page 15 of 19
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
------------------------------------------------
EQUIPMENT AND PEDAOSOICAL MATERIALS PER CLASSROOM/
------------------------------------------_-------
EQUIPEMENT ET MATERIEL PEDASOSIGUE POUR UNE CLASSE
--------------------------------------------                                  IN CFA.F.   IN US$
UNIT    TOTAL      TOTAL
PRICE/   PRICE/    PRICE/
PEDA6OSICAL MATERIALS/                            UNIT/   QUANTITY/    PRIX    PRIX         PRIX
MATERIEL PEDA606IOUE                              UNITE   OUANTITE UNITAIRE    TOTAL        TOTAL
REGLE A TABLEAU-IN                                 UNIT        1.00    2,800    2,800        8.92
COMPAS A TABLEAU                                   UNIT        0.33    2,000       667       2.12
EQUERRE A TABLEAU                                  UNIT        0.33    2,000       667       2.12
SERIE DE TROIS MESURES DE CAPACITE A GRAINS        UNIT        0.33    1,000       333       1.06
CARTE GEOGRAPHIOUE DE R.C.A. 120X100 CM.           UNIT        1.00    9,000    9,000       28.6b
CARTE AFRIGUE POLITIQUE  1/1.000.000               UNIT        0.33    9,500    2,833        9.02
CARTE DU MONDE                                     UNIT        0.33    7,500    2,500        7.96
BOITE DE 100 CRAIES BLANCHES                       UNIT        2.00      300       600       1.91
BOITE DE 100 CRAtES COULEUR                        UNIT        1.00      450       450       1.43
PEINTURE ARDOISINE VERTE I KS.                     UNIT        1.00    2,500    2,500        7.96
PINCEAU                                            UNIT        0.33    1,200       400       1.27
MARTEAU                                            UNIT        0.33    1,200       400       1.27
PINCE MULTIPRISE                                   UNIT        0.33    2,500       833       2.65
CLE A MOLETTE                                      UNIT        0.33    2,500       833       2.65
TROUSSE ET VISSERIE                                UNIT        0.33    7,500    2,500        7.96
Sub-total/Sous Total                                     27,317      87.00
==#*Suau  analuusuu
FURNITURE PER CLASSROOM/
MOBILIER POUR UNE CLASSE
TABLE BANC 2 PLACES (130X60)                       UNIT       27.00   11,500  310,500    9808.5
BUREAU MAITRE                                      UNIT        1.00   30,000   30,000       95.54
CHAISE MAITRE                                      UNIT        1.00   12,000   12,000       38.22
ARMOIRE "ETALI.IQUE                                UNIT        1.00   50,000   50,000    159.24
MEUOLE A CARTE                                     UNIT        0.33   12,000    4,000       12.74
Sub-Total/Sous Total                                    406,500  1,294.59
TOTAL                                   433,917  1,381.58
02-assn J 8aww
02-Jun-S7



ANNEX 3-4
Page 16 of 19
REGIONAL UNITS OF SCOLL CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPMENT/
---------------------------------------------------------
UNITES REGIONALES DES CONSTRUCTIONS ET DES EQUIPEMENTS SCOLAIRES
-------------------------------------------------------__--------------
SUMMARY OF VOLUNTEERS AND NATIONAL EXPERTS ACTIVITIES/
CALENDRIER O'ACTIVITES DES VOLONTAIRES ET EXPERTS NATIONAUX
COST/COUT CFA.F
NU"BER OF NANYEARS / ND"O8RE D'HODME-ANNES                  YEAR/AN     TOTAL
REGIONS/         POSITIONS/       -----------------------------------------  ------- ---------
RESIONS          FONCTIONS            1998      1989      1990      1991     1992      1993    TOTAL      x 000     x 000
BAN6UI           EXPERT NATIONAL         I         I         I        I         I         I         6     3,300    19,800
VOLONTAIRE              I         1         1         1        1         1         6    3,300    19,900
ADJOINT NATIONAL       0         0         1         1         1         1         4    3,300    13,200
OUAKA/IPPY       EXPERT NATIONAL         I         I         I         I         I        I         6    3,300    19,800
VOLONTAIRE              I         I         I        0         0         0         3     3,300    9,900
ADJOINT NATIONAL       0         0          1         1         I        1         4    3,300    13,200
OUAKA/6RIMARY    EXPERT NATIONAL         I         I         I        1         1         1         &     3,300    19,800
VOLOGTAIRE              1         I         I        0         0         0         3    3,300      9,900
ADJOINT NATIONAL       0         0          1        1         1         1         4    3,300    13,200
NSONOU           EXPERT NATtONAL         0         0        0          1         1         1        3    3,300    9,900
VOLONTAIRE             0         0         0         1         1         1         3    3,300      9,900
ADJOINT NATIONAL       0         0         0         0         0         1         1    3,300      3,300
Sub-Tot&aL       EIPERT NATIONAL         3         3         3        4         4         4        21    3,300    69,300
Sous Total       VOLONTAIRE              3        3         3         2         2         2        15    3,300    49,500
ADJOINT NATIONAL        0        0          3        3         3         4        13    3,300    42,900
TOTAL GENERAL                            6        6         9         9         9        10        49    3,300   161,700
02-Jun-87



ANNEX 3-4
Page 17 of 19
REPUBtIhUE  NEfxitRICAiNt
tEHIA8IZIA1ION El DEVELOPPRELtl SFCILR fEtUCAtrON
Table 31  REliABILI18TION Ft  MtIRE[IEN tCOIES PRINAIRES
Detailed Cost table
8,eal.down of Totals l,c1  CoPt
-                           t~~~~~~~OC8a1 IExc I Dutizes A
1988  1989   1990  l:aq  1992   t991 t994  Total    U,.t Cost  for  tEch        laxest     Ta*s A      otat
ItVESItiE%T COStS
A. REtH441tJITTOI ECOtES REGIOIN OUAtA
I    .NPLAICE.ENT APRIS PRONISIORES
SlRUCTURE / COUVERtURE                              Par class.         30    49    40                                119  t. 646. 906    466 327       340.294              806.622
IRAVAUX CONMUNAUTAIRES                              Par c1asse         30    49    40                                119    S32.487                    331.356              331. S56
Sub-7otal REMPLACEMENI  81RIS PROVPSIORES                                                                                                   466. 327      671.650            1. 137, 97
2  RENABILITBON CLASSES TYPE MISSION
STRUCTURE / COUVERTURE                              PA, classe         20    34    30                                 84  1.034.289      206 986       150.728         -    357.714
TRAVAUX CONMUNAU1AIRES                              Pa5  classe        20    34    30                                 84    397. 143                   t46 743              146, 743
Sub-Total REHABNiiTION CtASSES TYPE MISSION                                                                                                 206.986       297.47          -    504,457
3  REHtAB tITtf  CLASSES EN OUR
STRUCTURE / cDUvERrURE                              Par classe         10    14    10                          -      34    612, 617      49.40t        36. 190        -     95591
TRAVAUX COMNUAUTAIRES                               Par classe         10    14    to                   -             34    235. 344                    35. 250              35S250
Sub-Total RE"ABIItTION CLASSES EN DOUR                                                                                                       49 401        71, 441              120,841
4. RE#AStLITIOX CLASSES PREFAB
SIRUCTURE / COUVERTURE                              Par classe                 6     6                         -      12    612, 617      17 794        12.814               30. 609
TRAVAUX CONMMAUUTAIRES                              Par classe          -      6     6                                12    235.344             .       12. 481              12.481
Sub-lotal RENABILITIONt CLASSES PRErAB                                                                                                        17 794       75.295               43.0S0
5. REKABILITION CL4SSES ENl SEPI - OUR
STRUCTURE / COUVERTURE                              Par classe                 2     3                  -      -       5    459, 463       5 574         3.969         -      9,5a3
TRAVAUX COMIWNAUIAIRES                              Par classe          -      2     3                                 S    176.508                      3,R66                3.866
Sub-Total REHA43ILITION CLASSES EN SEMI - DUR                                                                                                 5,574         7.835                13. 409
6. CONSTRUCTION CLASSES tHEXISTANTES
STRUCTURE / COUVERtURE                              Par classe          10    29    tO      -                         49  t, 646 906     191,869       142.256         -    334.125
TRAVAUX COMiIUNAUTRIRES                             Par classe         10    29    10                                 49    632.487                    138.5t9         -    t38.519
Sub-Total CONSTRUCTION CLASStES IIIEXSIANTES                                                                                                191. 869      280. 775        -    472.644
7. REHAB NMBIL'EP  /a                                  Par classo          70   134    99                               303    443. 509     267. 319      293.948         -    560.367
8  FOURNITURES SCOLAIRES  /b                           Paer classo         70   134    99                               3 -  303  30. t13    35, 862             -               35. 882
9  CONSTRIICTIOII LOGEPENT DIRECTEUR                     unito              -    20    21      .1  2,696. 650                                      -      488. 107        -    488. tO
10. REIASILIIA1 108 LODEtEtT DIRECTEUR                  Lt&               4      4     -                  .              8    862,928             -       30.49          -     30. 749
Sub-Total REHABILITATION ECOLES REGION OUAKA                                                                                                 1;241. 152    2,166.370          -  3.407,523
8. REHABlITATION ECOLES REGION 8ANGUI
1. REHAB. CLASSES /c
STRUCTURE / COUVERTURE                              Par class.         SO    50    SO    80   8 i                   311    208.647      157.555        97.030              254. 585
TRAVAUX COMUAUTAIRES                                Par classe         50    50    50    60    81       -      -     311     88.254             -      103.960              103.960
Sub-Total REH66. CLASSES  /c                                                                                                                157. 555      200.990         -    358. 545
2. YRO / CtOTUkES
STRUCTURE                                           Par ctasse         SO    50    50    80    81              -     311     20.885       t5. 756        9.703               25.458
TRAVAUX COMNUNAUTAIRES                              Per c1ass.         50    SO    SO    80    81                    311      8.825                     10. 396               10. 396
Sub-Totol VROI X CtOTURE.                                                                                                                    tS, 756       20.099         -      35.855
3. REHAB Mi8ILIER  /d                                  Par classe          SO    50    50    80    St                   3t1    4t2.829      253.839       234.488         -    466.327
4. FOURNITURtS SCOLAIRES  /0                           Par close           50    50    50    so    8t       -     -     311      27. 1o2      33.762                             33.762



*gq9604#  _ooJ J6   *,.
909,1ft.o.ee., -0/
90400 p 60*l060l    *9  91  9                                                    0ot o/  o   J
t  l95$.Rdt *1__4  9                                               **$^ o $_ .ooX~    6/
"IH Iwo        41.1'e       90 091.9  9/ *-                                          I    o/
9.9,to   o z ,   ot4I6 *   W s                                       o 9 6 6*   9 t'   ' 
04". l 1V*tit_ "'l .                     sj)    "I 6-4-
6-6 0f1   Od re o60£)  6                                                        *0
06S  oti              u'sC oc        060 99                                                                                                                0/  90$t  *         105603  1103 16stta6o6
,,_ ......       ........ -.....  - - -   ............
ttS tSW               tO't9 98       otS60  tS                                                                                                             °fWIIA1  4030l3  Sttlsi   ¢Xl
o06 s                 606 s                       1066 S        0£ O                 06    06    06                      109d))I00..0L4 d                                            11 4,1 6)9?64    Iatn
LI60, 6                              ow,         Dig                   06    Got   06                       ;.*d#*,4i6                   S0964l3lL618o IUM310   0)6l90190
P66              9                                416 S   II  Ot1                    09    06     09            -W/meoaw 0_5160I99 S0SI06133dS )00130,13191
66S                                  SSC0 660     SS9160   £                  -      t      I      I                      -    '/'9111                                                $S1tLo
£06                                  £F 05        O's c*       06                    O      of  01         O       C              '<d                      tiO 60130
6s £ at                              1t9 et       6t0  OI     06                     Of    Ot    056 -4l'1t'0Illots"ll630    01ttJWti
06) .l                               06       . ...    0.4 ...   01£   .    .6         .     .                  .      .     1660 ....... */  01)2000 0..                           .
sco IIS  CU 'et  4rlt SE                                                                           1461~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00146 10114M    WAS061,   301100  013$)4  Oft3  0-S1
CtI1                  060 Pt         1,  IC *2  St K.    O1 Ot    "                                                                                              0t G0  10 6U0" n SW064360l0J1
SI.t Et                              ss  tt       *so s        VIL            ES ns                                         *10:t *'d                                  -/  siran  tl 39sWai
M010011l3d OV4381013 3iNS3lAS 3391d '03 3M"   ;
9CO  CCI             9SSO Z.         Ib bOt                                                                                                      31w111trl OclluitO    13 *011#d41# d  IW oz 45
600 IC                               Soo LE        L0IC        000t   OO    OOS 00OO    00'         00   006                 90                                       1t/  till0  3 St00
900 0'  660 £.                     600 01      00£~~~~~~~~~~oo                                  600     ..d so  .1,O.  01610
00£ £                      ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~00  C  060'Z o£  0                                      0£                                                                          *Mald9160
nt cz nc c                                          c z03      z                                                              *u                                    r/  WIMNISbSnO SUMA5
0.00                                 6£           60£ £09                                                                      1100    111669   9)
6,6                                                rf 66 0£  01E OttS   0.                                      '                                                   '   31090)09id *10tiv6i0
£6Z   6                              0.1 6         669 90£                                               I      I                                                                      I0Oll1/10l19  9o0GA
,iE 6                                1.i ,        OS66 Z,     O                                          0£ 0o f°( .14                                                               kisl 
66t *0                               6t6  0£      910 0.       O0 0                                      o0    GE                                                               511 $4 'V  191 0310110)304.
119t)116 O9010 dG 11 M0)1.90404d I
.66 60          16666Bo                      099I,*6    £1                            0                                                      .0.101  60)006 001033 44901101le)600     11101 WS'
SS, 06£        .       31 9£ C                    090  £61    Z I                          961                                W9138 10                                 w  I60  Ol96600  5013010603 OIld  6
*5b vsn         k;~~9  Ssit                  4; C694  of t                     S      61                                 P.-                         ON313M3 3°lol3i*°lo°i "OwllOna'S3  9
6.0 6£                               611 ,0       ,£. 0£       60£                   60'   Pt,                             9*.1.1w6   106))03  s0a006.6a03  i
S:OoC -1              LEC E040      594 " Z       bCC S.)      Wt                    Sti   01l                             *s owl                                         I     4JI710441 rlll.  9
6rc C0£   .0z                        100 0.t                                                                                                                    SI,0.)60    6S513 ftO30016603  *9%0L 16
6£c 00                s.6  96                     000 £09   60                      b0£    O£                                                                        Sw1,  .14  619q1n9r1n06 o3 1tl96
bp  Ig                                               oz                                                                        un~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~990009   no*0)  id.1131)00.3
O0t .f                OS        b     06          0.0 £60 i£ *n 0                                                          9 )  .Al8                                  061116003 /01   T ,010i WS
600IXl 1)11 93 *0003 60)1)0199030 0
0,0 6.                60£ 9.                      09£ 610    *.                             O.    0                        *669@  .9d                                016)010090. 03 0no0000
660 00                .£b 0,        c£o b6        Olt 1S6    9.                             0.    9                         0*da) .4                                 ldnl0AGW3 / 0460PA) Ss
W!sJdI359Ta 0r.01111187"1i    t
.irs st;   OL6 6S                                                                                                                        SM6000 60000)3 * 1   0ol,ln 910 4
El,,  t                    Cc           >            wt        ov                           0*-;.4 11104 ILOD3 tn#rarla lT
69£  60                ' E            Z, £ 4       o0t 169    Pt                     Pt    0t                              04010   . 04                              061,000003 / 343116,S
460 91 0i*SS03 9011))l18000 Z
..Z 96                .,4 96'                     'S. Ct9   1,1I                     .z     C                               fi$     d                                S14tv'AWWZneO3 Ina^w4
OIl lO                60£ 0£)        06699 I'(9   06£ 299 S1£                        00    Ot                              *9*0 104 A,                               0600A603 I 090)3060s
UotlGlSJr    Sliaav I"Wall-'s"Z 
h9) C01)04 SI0M6 )906330lI,0   I
64I, S,6               "16 ;sls      I6 03st                                                                                                      t%5"9 Klt34i}\%, Slc l 41ILMUI"to %*%t qS
61 JO 81 ;aed
V-f X3f



-114 -                                                    ANNEX 3-4
Page 19 of 19
~,1.       4**Ifil *I**7*1  OMl  9* *746*9   716*
4*19  '309    *~~'99     99*       *992      *993    1994  *o*1,    o.*,  tlls  go,  I.C*,         I009          409:      7079
11(97014**105*3li  
0*4119               4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I4o*9       9                                                        *9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   630 174  23 09                 23.797
*01*09           61'..'..*o,.,                        *                                                        *  * 249 ~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~699      699649
UI0*97079*09' **,,**,                                                               *                                                                  2     'O 626          4. 471                                4. 41?
974 Olt"                                                    p., jgoo*              *9                  *9                                             20      43099          3I*63                                 3  6
0sh 14*4* 109461*04 Is                                                                                                                                                         39 999....... ..   ..09
2 a's0*049661*4 1,01110004 a9419118                           9c..*n'..,              *                    *2        13         it        *2              90    299 6999. 9                                          9,9
V010914149  094I109  /b                                    9(4/.*                   2        *2        13                                             39    209. 40,        30*9                                  *7, 169
9076391i                                                 ***.,,r,*ou,               *                              .3  I 24r0i 1' 3.967                                                                           73. 99
90.10*1*91 $940  09001949f 09476*T  .e                          I..$~'                                            *2        *3        it              IT7S    ,77.04..      39. 013                               39,9oil
40*969ouli 07174  004746*                                IIIII,/W,oo,                                              I         I          I              I . 3  74699 69      *47990                                74.90
WE74   AtIU046I                                           Hom         'M2                    *2        74         24        24        24             *2      29964',6                     7*9. 396         -     1    9
*7**t99  4 * 4                                              07.*                                                                                     2979*4*12            49299.2
401.,.*                                                                                                                                                       9   1          2s.9                .                 396921
94914*7U4                                                     9.*7                                                                                           S5  .*329  O09t   29706                               9.24?
74.9.497                                                      4,,74*                                                                                         4672*4*68       1. 799                                  in74
10401704                                                      Unit*                                                -         .                               I I6 996         .49                                  2.:948
* 00709*0 I0.                                                                       *                                                  .                     63637           2399                -                  .369
9             ~~~~~~4                                         9      79 136         7.26                .....             7347t
S,k   total foulpt DANGUI                                                                                                          160~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*9  740  *791. 3961  379.1*38
4  Sto,.,, I O74R7     G 0769* 10791*9S 009041*149S  /0
INTERVENTION0 SPECIALISM4                                 flIootl.,              20                             20                    -49                   179 316        *4.445                                111. 94449
6004010A  6* 7/*.*o*',                                                              I                                                                    7 1246.:939         2.292262
It797   / 106IS101*9l                                    ON, p.e7cpa..         *0                             79                                   20      *9 951         7.722                                I1.722
9,k-W&*4  S7I4514*74  01494460? 7*UIPES O 909A16R4S  /d                                                                                                                        29.4959                         .      3, 499
Sub-total 9E4709C7494T OC70                                                                                                                                                       237  999       769. 199                    1,4.114
4  CREATION 040tU199 490794694S 00 7614740741
7*99I91 747                                               No*wil/ax..s            24         24        24                    .                        73    209 940         74.2*6.                                4  7
VO0*999I                                                 6**g,*i,.*o,               2                   2                    .                             7. 246.699i      761.926                               To92
71794* R                                                  H7*7  **/M l             24        24        49         44        46        As             240    299 9996                      220,9. 79        -     3).099
479?Cut*1  41 4                                               0.,*7                 2                              .2  S.7191.9*2                                           63.3990                               43.390
41079                                                         94.1                             .        .          .                                   2    992 079          4. *32              -4. 132
CONSTRUCTION4 90694E410                                       U,.                   4         ..                                                       4  2 7364,97         24. *13        *6. 92411              43.37I0
[09991  I9*                                                1a.,/.,                                                 2        12        *2              36    226.O49         390. 93              .                 9, 973
90OIAM                                                    AT**/rlor/ o,                                 .         7         I          I              2  7.246 999          9.694                                 9.6904
7*9997 4*1T                                               HopowlMogs                .         .                    2        72        24     .        46    299 669               .         9 792. 709
VI "ICUtI 4 * 4                                               94*74                                                I .                                  I S, .727.812       23.990               .         .       33,9no
4010                                          O~~~~             ~             ~    ~ ~        ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~nits  I   7                 7    992.079          2.249                                 23249
CO4STR907194 t06949*1*0                                       Uni*4                                               2                                    2  2,933.799         14 446          8.987t                23.62"
0,.~~~~-1o*.7 999*99 490*64 400400  /7                                                                                             99~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_1.*7  .. 4......  .7 ..  . 3......9
Sub-lotil7  E496f1E 79990901 6497O 810 If 1 9*4004                                                                                                                              24 994,279                            938.470
7~~~**7  7499019917 0091$                                                                                                               469, 649       449~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... .  303.....  ... 929. .......
Ste670T4l74  00910      CM IISRGINISO   FflcllM                                                                                                                                               s     64  1 
0900146799                                              4/ o                     2         *2        *2         *2        72        *2     .        72    1*9 347         *9.946         12.034                 31,862
$E900714147                                              "oevagglaw,              *2        *2        72         *2        72l       72              72     *79.3671       *9,69491       12 *3,                 39,6on
06*009004 I  ,C0*7.77                                    4      *.                          2 2       *2         72        *2        *2              72      49.            S.2S I,7       S.97                  9 1.328
I.A~-lo*.  974994494 9 49997                                                                                                                                                 499 293         29.46                  70.6
I30 7940144444 (I/ INTR9*174 09***9460U1
IROINalfug                                                                                                                      ~~~~~      ~     ~~~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.922  2.499.
RE4*990JC4 91099DOCUMENT 1                                Ps, an   ,.I.                                                                                .                    967  . 403     2.090          -      *.643
*104*6404       cutt 9019 40                                 h.4*                  4         4         4                    9          12                    94 9143,90                    0.37lot               *9.9??
S*bmo.*790*047(*     91019  9*90 400168*                                                                                                                                     41.9446         9. 99                18.40
4  9*6974   1074*07960  69   40p.a..                                                                             8         6          64                     76961          7,049          4.64           -       3,49
9  F*4j E7 C *600401*0  9096174                                0t0997491069*S                                   1~00      1,00       0  00          9180              9       799. 293       906         340.3"  o6f
loNisI                                                                                                                                                                            44*. NSIXETS111.VIN      6 aa    2 ?9si736  949 4996  It.78.68
Ia  7**,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e ,499*0**flb*, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     .-1--  ....                            ...
$b 4-tot*nb*   40C1.**709    P  AIPG  lPXDl64g                                                                                                                                       SS4394             o                 21.1
tl~ots,  9.1 *99*  09 46                                                                                                                                                                                                          S



- 115 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 9
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPORT TO THE INSPECTORATE SYSTEM
1.        Background.  The Ministry of National Education has decentralized
its operational resr nsibilities for the control and management of secondary
and primary educatio. (including the CPRs), from the Secondary Education
Directorate (Direction des Enseignements Secondaire et Techniques - DEST) and
the Primary Education Directorate (Direction Enseignement Prescolaire et
Fondamental 1 - DEPF 1) to, at the regional level, five academic inspector-
ates (IAs), and at the local level -- for primary education -- to 19 Primary
Inspectorates (IEFs) (see Chart 1). The three original academic inspector-
ates, created at the end of the school year 1985-1986, have proved their
worth w.th their capacity to: (a) undertake regular field visits to the
educational establishments in their areas; (b) report quickly on urgent
matters to the Ministry headquarters; (d) liaise with local government repre-
sentatives; and (e) resolve managerial problems without referral to the
capital.  Difficulties remain.  The academic inspections are not yet properly
installed in their regions (their accomodation remains a problem) and the
primary inspections do not have the transport or operating budget to carry
out regular inspection, supervision or control of the system.
2.        The educational reform, discussed in detail in 1984, revised the
profiles for primary school inspectors and pedagogic councillors. The decree
of January 1986, modified the organizational structure of the MEN, defined
the operational duties of academic inspections, but left the possibility for
further precision in their role following their initial operation. The
organizational structure, the vertical and horizontal relationships between
MEN, the academic inspections, and the primary inspections have been fully
defined, but the demarkation of administrative responsibilities for areas
such as personnel management are not yet finalized. The definition of
detailed responsibilities will result from the work undertaken under this and
other components of the project.
3.        The work of the primary inspectors is well defined, with a calendar
of reports to be submitted to MEN during the school year, and an indication
of the administrative tasks and documents for which the inspector has respon-
sibility. The major items include: statements of recruitment, absence, and
leave for education personrnel; the report on the start of the school year;
listing of educational personnel by district; listing of school directors;
listing of administrative personnel; reports on schoil inspections and class
visits; school statistics; report on staffing movements, including proposals
for promotion and candidates for professional examinations; reports on the
pupil examination centers, and the conduct of the pupil examinations; and the
end of the school year report.
4.        Regarding pedagogical aspects, the support and development of
teachers is the responsibility of both the primary school inspectorate and
the CRPs. These functions are largely ignored by the inspectorate because



- 116 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 9
the means of making school supervision visits are limited, with a reported
total of only 8 of the 19 inspectorate vehicles operating, and all of these
vehicles being in poor states of repair (they date from either 1978 or the
UNICEF program of 1980). A lack of document reproduction and other facili-
ties hampers the operation of the inspectorate staff. Furthermore, the
absence of in-service training for the inspectors and pedagogical advisors
has made it difficult for them to keep abreast of the new pedagogical devel-
opments and introduce and support innovative teaching methods.
5.        Obiectives.  This component would increase the effectiveness of the
decentralized administration of the education system, especially with respect
to the primary level through support to the academic inspectorates and the
local primary school inspectorates. Sub-objectives include:
(a) at MEN level, making better and more frequent use of the IA
reports;
(b) making the IAs operational by speeding up their effective material
installation;
(c)  redistributing regionally the daily management tasks (control of
enrollments, personnel allocations and placement/postings, follow-
up of equipment and maintenance of schools, administrative and
pedagogical management of schools, local consultation, etc.);
(d) re-activating the local level primary inspectorates, and providing
them with the means to fulfill their responsibilities; and
(e) reorganizing the school timetable to make better use of resources
and to allow a gradual reduction in the average class-size of
primary schools from 62 to 55 by 1993/94.
6.        Approach/strategy.  The Government has attached major importance to
the role to be played by the academic and primary inspectorates i decentra-
lizing educational management and reactivating the control and supervisory
functions, and during 1987, will increase the number of academic inspector-
ates from 3 to 5. The roles and responsibilities of the academic inspections
are being clarified and refined as a body of experience builds up with regard
to the operation of the firt,t IAs. The profile and tasks defined for the
primary inspector are still valid, it remains only to provide the decentral-
ized organs of the MEN the operational means to carry out their responsibi-
lities. The results of the personal management reorganization, the major
statistical survey of the education sector, the reinforcement of the academic
inspections, and the decentralization of the DCES, will allou the Government
to improve its support and control of rural primary schools through greater
decentralization of the management of the educational system to the regional
and local levels. The means and retraining needed will be provided under the
project.
7.        ProblemAi remain, especially in the transition period 1987-1988.
During this time, a working group will continue to refine the distribution of
managerial responsibilities, and inspectors and pedagogical advisors will
follow an in-service retraining program. As regards the use of transport, to
promote the regular inspection of schools, and to reactivate the reporting



- 117 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 3 of 9
function of primary inspectors, small capacity motorcycles and mopeds will be
provided for each primary inspection. In addition, a limited number of
vehicles, with an operating budget, will be held at each academic inspection
for the use, upon request, of the primary inspectors, for specific tasks.
These vehicles will be for the exclusive use of the primary inspectorates but
the academic inspector will release the vehicle only for an agreed purpose
and the primary inspector will be obliged to provide a written report, for
submission to the academic inspector, on the substantive task undertaken
during the mission. Should the report not be forthcoming, or prove unsatis-
factory, the primary inspector will be denied access to the vehicle pool
until the situation is redressed.
8.        In conjunction with the inservice teachers training program and the
special program for primary school directors, this components would address
the problem of the large average class-size of primary school through a
revised and optimised school timetable. By the introduction of multi-grade
teaching, double shift schooling and a more efficient programming of the
s^~hool day, combined with a minor increase in the number of hours effectively
taught by each teacher, the average class-size will be reduced from 62 to 55
by 1993194. The scope for additional reductions during this period is
limited because of the number of teachers absent from the classroom following
the inservice training program. However, upon completion of the inservice
program and redeployment of the non-teaching staff back into classrooms,
further reduction of average class-size to a figure of about 50 are
anticipated.
9.        Timetable.  The distribution of the component activities over time
is given in the attached detailed tables.
10.       Administration and Manaxement.  The responsibility for the imple-
mentation of this component is entrusted initially to the Project Coordina-
tion Unit, and thence directly to the academic inspections. The interests of
the primary school inspections will be represented by the participation of
the Primary Education Directorate ("Direction Enseignement Prescolaire et
Fondamental 1").
11.       Means and Costs.  To assist in making the above changes opera-
tional, the project would finance: (a) building rehabilitation for 3 IAs
located at Bangui Ville, Bambari, and Bangassou; (b) a supply of office
furniture and equipment for the same 3 IAs; (c) a total of 18 vehicles for
the use of the IEFs, together with the required maintenance and fuel costs;
(d) office operating expenditures for 3 lAs and 19 IEFs; (e) 38 light
motorcycles and mopeds, together with their related operating costs for the
IEFs; and (f) in-service training and seminars for 70 inspectors and
pedagogical advisors. The following table provides brief details of the
short in-service training program for the primary inspectors and pedagogical
advisors. Details of the quantities, programming and costs of this component
are also given in the attached tables.



- 118 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 4 of 9
Table 1 - In-Service Training for the Primary School Inspectorates
Title of Course             Specialist workshops on educational administration and management
Objectives of Course
1. Main                  Improve decentralized educational management and inspection
2. Sub-objectives        Reinforce the regional and local level inspectorates and promote
better coordination between MEN and academic inspectorates, and
academic Inspectorates and primary school inspectorates.
3. Required outcomes    Greater decentralization, improved administration and regional
and district management of education
Preparation, Staffing       Preparation:  six local consultants during one week of 1988.  The
and Management             consultants would include:  staff of the Inspectorate General,
staff of ENAM, MEN and CPRAC staff. Teaching: as above with
academic and MEN participation (total of 10 persons).
Admissions criteria         Restricted to staff of the academic inspectorates, the primary
school inspectorates, and not more~ than 15 MEN headquarters staff.
Enrollment                  70 participants
Duration                    Five days only (one week)
Frequency                   Once every two years in 1988, 1990, 1992
Timing                      One month prior to the start of the school year
Location                    CNFC Bangui
Instructional Program
1. Main topic            Decentralized educational administration
- purpose, elements, roles, responsibilities
2. Subsidiary topics    Personnel management
- attendance, leave, transfers, promotion, notation,
performance, reporting, sanctions and discipline
Statistics and planning
- statistics collection, definitions, verification, collation
and calculation, pupil growth, opening of new schools and or
classes, school location and local community involvement
Reporting and inspection
- record keeping, report writing, annual program of essential
reports and correspondence
Finance
- budgeting and financial mobilization, cost control and
financial management, basic accounting
Examinations
- organization and administration, confidentiality, security



ANNEX 3-5
Page 5 of 9
ORGANIZATION CHART OF INSPECTORATE SERVICES
Ministry Level                         4    of Education
General Directorate
of Education
Regional Level
(Academic Inspectorates)
lelI
Bang ui**         Bangui*  ..Bou ar*                                    Bawnbari*<                ag  8U* 
Vllle             Region
Local Level
(Primary Inspectorates)
Bangui 1 (10)    Ombella Mpoko (t3)           Nana Mambere (12)         Ouaka (14)              Mboumou (10)
Bangui 2 (14)    Lobaye (15)                  Ouham Pende (10)          Vakaga (1)              Haute Mbonnou (9)
Bangui 3 (10)    Kemo Ibngni (12)             Haute Sangha (10)         Haute Kotto (7)         Basse Kotto (8)
Ouham (12)                  Sangha Economique (8)   Baningui Bangoram (8)
Ibingui Economique (4)
Note: IA existing in 1986-87 *
IA created in 1987-88 **
Figures in parentheses show the 1986 staffing levels.



- 120 -
ANNEX 3-5
ACADEMIC AND REGIONAL INSPECTORATES/                                                                                        Pate  6  of  '
INSPECTIONS ACADEMIGUES ET RESIONALES
-------------------------------------                           A: revair         : 301,000 CFA.F/f2
B: renovdeling   = 40,000 CFA.F/02
OFFICES AND STORAGE FACILITIES / BUREAUI ET STOCKAGE            C: construction   90,000 CFA.F!t12
STORASE/STOCKAGE                 OFFICES/BUREAUX
ACADEMIC      RESIONAL    DISTANCE  DIST.                             COSTS                           COSTS       TOTAL
INSPECT.    INSPECT.        BANGUI  COEF.   CURRENT  CONDIT.          C.l.    CURRENT  CONDIT.       C.I.         coST
INSPECTION  INSPECTION    ELOI6NT,  COEF.                            $MONTANT                       NONTANT
ACADEMI9UE   RESIONALE        BANGUI  DIST.  EXISTANT        ETAT   TRAVAUX   EXISTANT        ETAT  TRAVAUI         TOTAL
LOCALITES                                     KM        X        M2      (A,B,C)  xOOOFCFA        M2      (A,B,C) xOOOFCFA    X000FCFA
1                               2          1+2
REEIONS
I            BASSE-KOTTO                 -      ALINDAO          505   0.22           0     A              0                               0            0
2            OUAVA                 BA!PARI            -          385   0.19        '12       A        3.998          156      A       5.569        9,568
3            qBOmOU             BAN6ASSOU             -          744   0.32         102      4        4,039          156     A        6,178       10,217
4            HAUTE SANSHA                -   BERBERAT1           584   0.26           0     8              0                               0            0
5            OSH.AM                      -   BOSSANGOA           305   0. .1          0     C              0                               0            0
6            'ANA-NAMBERE            BOUAR            -          452    0.2          85     8         4,080                  A             0       4,060
7            OUHAM-PENDE                 -       BOLOUM          470   (.021                9              0                               0            0
8            VAKA6A                      -        PIRAO         1'088   0.47          0     C              0                 A             0            0
q            4AUTE KOTTO                 -         BRIA          595   0.36           0     P              0                               0            0
.0           SRIBIN6UI ECON.              - KASA-BANDORO          339   0.17          0      8             0                               0            0
.1           L09AYE                       -      PBAIKI           107   0.07           0     A             0                               0            0
;2           BAMINSUI-BANSORA             -       NDELE           02   0.28            0     A             0                               0            0
.3           SANSHA ECONOMIQU             -         NOLA          720   0.31           0     B             O0                                           0
!4           tE40-8IN6Ul                  -        SIBUT          185   0.12           0     A             0                               0            0
4AUT MBOMOU                 -        ZEMIO         1042   0.45           0     8              0                              0            0
Sub-Total /      Sous Total                                            2Q9 e2           12,118         312              11,747       23,864
BANGUI Ville          BANSUI             -                    1                                         406     A       24,360       24,360
ACCOMODATION/LOCAUX
stockage palettes                                             1        140     9         5,600
buWeau  agasinier                                             I         10     a           400
fournitures scal.                                             1         90     B         3,200
ganuels scal.                                                 1         70     8         2.800
nateriel divers                                               I        100     B         4.000
bureau che$ sery.                                             I         10     0            400
arch.ves                                                      1          8     B            320
attente/secret.                                               I         10     B           400
sarmtairelentrt.                                                         9 8   B            320
cloture                                                       1         60    .1          2700
Y.r.d.                                                   f0.15                            2616
SUb-Total I      Sous Total                                            436              22.756                          24,360     4A,!16
TOTAL IN '000 CFA.F I TOTAL EN F.CFA xOOO                              735              34,874                          36,107       70,980
TOTAL 1N US  / TOTAL EN DOLLARS E.U.                                  436               72,471                          77.580      150.051
----------------------------------------                        :=ZZZZ               Z::_::S                         :::=::::    :::::SS2
24-adv-87



ANNEX 3-5
Page 7 of 9
REPUBtlIOUE CENtRATRICAINE
REHA8IIA lAtEEON Et DEtlEtOPPENEtI SECIEUR EDUCATION
Table 41  INSPECTION ACAOfIIQUTS
Detatied Cost Iable
IT CF Al
8re'akdown of lotats Incl Cont
(USS)
Quantity
*--- --- -- --- -- *------------                            tocal IExcl  Dutios 8
Unit   1988 1989  1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 Total  Unit Cost  for. Exch           Taxes)      Taxes    Total
t. INVESTRENT COSTS
A  REPARAttON BfTIRENTS
1. INSPECTION BANSUI                                               m2        -   406                               406     29,766       24.135        27.560          -   Sl.695
2  INSPECTION B4AIIARI                                             m2        -   tS6                               156      29. 766       9.274        10. 590        -   19. 863
3  INSPECIION BANGASSOU                                            m2        -   tSS-       -       -    -    - 156         29, 766       9.274        10.590             19.863
Sub-lotal REPARATION BATIRENTS                                                                                                              42.682        48.739         -   91.421
B.  OSIttLER f EQUIPENENT
O81lIER /a                                                        Unite       -     3    -          -                3    892.971         5.350         6.109              11,459
EQUEPttNENT /b                                                    Unite      -      3                          -     3  1.003.780        11.t89                           11.889
Sub-Total t8ItlIER / EQUIPENENI                                                                                                             17.239         6, t09        -   23.349
C  TRAdSPORT POUR INSPECITONS ENSEIGNENENT FONDAItENtAI  Ic
VEHICULES LEGERES POUR INSPECTION                                 Urite      5                5          -    -    10  4.266.066        166.556             -         -  166.556
VENICULES 4 X 4 POUR INSPECTIONS RURAtES                          Unite      4                4          -    -      8  5 791,812       180.899                          180.899
Sub-Total TRANSPORT POUR INSPECTIONS ENSEIGNENEINt FONO3AENTAL  /c                                                                         347 455              -           347. 455
total INVESTNIENT costs                                                                                                                       407. 377       54. 848         -  462. 225
11. RECURREWt COSTS
A TONCTIONNEMENT
OPERATION                                                        Unite      3      3    3    3    3    3           ' 8    497.254       20.777        12.538             33.315
Sub-lotat FONCTIONNEtERNT                                                                                                                  20.777        12.538              33, 315
8  OPERATION / ENTRETIEN FtRANSPORt INSPECTIONS fONODAENTAITS
tRAIS 0 ASSURAdCE                                                Unite      9     9    9   Is   I8   t8            81    198.902       37.720         21.240             58.960
FRAIS ENTRETIEN                                                  Unite      -                                                          51.833        29. 169            18t003
fR1AS ESSENtCE                                                   Unit*      9     9    9   tI   tS   i8            8t    582.782      ttO. 519        62.234         -  172.752
Sub-Total OPERATEON f ENTRETIEN TRANSPORT INSPECTIONS FONOAIAENTALES                                                                      200.072       112.643             312.715
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                         220.49       t25. t1O         -  346.029
Total                                                                                                                                          628.226       180. 029         -  808.255
-----    ------- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~  ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~:.-         -          . : e     - - ., --    :-
/a  Dotation per inspection
/b Dotat ion pe, inspecltion
/c  Gerer per les V.A
O.t.e  9 - . 17  0  44 - - .   .                                                   . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Octobetr 9, 1987  09, 44



ANNEX 3-5
Page 8 of 9
REPUBLIQUE CENTRAfRICAINE
REHABILITATION ET DEVEtOPPENENT SEClEUR EDUCATION
Table 42. INSPECTIONS ENSEIGNEPIENT FOUOAIIENTAt
Detailed Cost t*blo
itrCFA)
Breakdoen of Totals Imc Coni
lUSSI
Owjnt I ty                                         toca I
-- ------------------------------ -------                           IExcl   Outles a
Umt            t1988 1989 1S0 So991 1992 1993 19S4 Totel  Unit Cost  for. Exch  Taxesl   Tax"    Total
1. INVESTIIEIST COSTS
A  TRANSPORT POUR INSPECTIONS ENSEIGNENENT FONOANENtAt
NtOTO LEGERE CONSEILLERS PEDAGGIQUE                                          Vehicult                 9   10           -         -    19   S52.079         41.953        -            41.953
N99?LETTES POUR IuPECtlOHS                                                   Vehicule           19    -    - .9    26S.002                                 18. 914                     18.914
Sub-Totel TRalSPORT POUR INSPECTIONS ENSEIGNEIEENT fONOUENTAL                                                                                                 60. 867       -         -   60. 867
Total INVESTRENT COSTS                                                                                                                                           60. 867       -         -   60. 867
II  RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATION / ENTRETIEN DES VEHICLES ET TRANSPORT DES tNSPECTIONS
fRAIS ESSENCE IOTO / FID8Y                                           300 litres/moto anne    20   30   40   40   40   40            210      87.4t7      42.924  2S.044          -   67.967
Sub-Total OPERATION I ENTRETIEN DES VEHICLES ET TRANSPORT DES INSPECTIONS                                                                                    42.924  25.044         -   67.967
B  FOURNITURE BUREAU POUR INSPECtlONS
FOURNITURE                                                                 ispect ton          19   19  19   t9   19   19    -   114    348.078          92.111  55.584          -  147.695
PAC MATERIAL NETTOYAGE                                                     Inspet son          19               -    -   19          38      39.780       3.458   1.993          -    S.45t
stb-rotel FOURNITURE BUREAU POUR INSPECTlONS                                                                                                                 95.569  57.577             ;53 146
- -  -    - - - -   - - --.  .    . .*.- .* .I
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                                           t38,493  82.621             221. 114
Total                                                                                                                                                            19g.360  t2.621          ;  281.981
October 9. 1987  09: 44



ANNEX 3-5
Page 9 of 9
mPU8tLitUE CEtTRAFRICAINE
REHABILITATION ET OEVEttOPPEtfENT SECIEUR EDUCATION
Table 43  RECYCLAGES INSPECTEURS
Osta ted Cost Tablt
IFCFfI
Sreekdourn of Total5s tn Coont
IUSS)
Quant*ty                                         Local
- - - - ----------  - ----------- -  ........... ---- --- -For    IE*cI  Dut *s  A
Urnt      1988  1989 1990  t99t 1992  1993 t994 lotal    Unit Cost Exch. TaIxes)   Taxes   Total
t. INVESTRENt COSTS
A  PREPARtION SENINAIRES
CONSULTANTS  ATtOINAVX  /a                      Houm  jouis      3     -    -       -       -       -      30     t1 277           1.386             1.386
Sub-Total PREPARTItO SENINAIRES                                                                                                   -   1. 386        -   .386
8  SENINANRES
ANIMATION SENINAIRES PAR CCNSULTANTS  /b       HNoame jours      S0    -    S0          S0          -     1S0     t1.277       -  6. 169             6.169
PER DIEP PARTICIPANTS  /c                      Home  jours      350    -   350         350    -    -   1.00       S.t84          22.531            22.531
VOYAGES PARTICIPANTS  /d                       par personne      70    -    70    -    70    -    -       210      4.4t3           3.3e0             3.380
S#d-Total SEMIIIAIRES                                                                                                             - 32. 00             32. 080
Ttol INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                                -  33. 466        *  33. 466
total                                                                                                                                 - 33.466          - 33.466
/a  6 poroeswe pnent 5 jourr 
lb  10 por,onner  pendent S jour.                                                                                                                                                                             N
/c  t0 persoeue  pendant S jours
/d  300 I   per participent
Octaobr 9. 1987  09:44



- 124 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 1 of 11
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPROVEMENTS IN HIGHER EDUCATION QUALITY, PLANNING AND FINANCE
1.        Background.  The evolution of the student population at the
University of Bangui from 1984-1986 shows that enrollments have grown at
almost 7% p.a. over the three years to 2,628 in 1985/86. The number of
students and staff by institute and faculty is shown in Table !. The
dominance of arts based subjects, which have almost 82% of the students, is
evident.
Table I - University of Bangui
Student Numbers         Staff (permanent)
1984/85      1985/86      1984/85      1985/86
A.        FACULTIES                    1/            2/
-Humanities / Social Science          657           686          39           38
-Law and Economics                    800         1,071           19          17
-Health Sciences                      426           309           13           7
-Pure Sciences                         97            86           22          21
B.    "GRANDES ECOLES"
-Polytechnic                           53            74            3           3
-Business Management Unit             135           100            5           5
-Rural Development Inst.               74            79           12          13
-Teacher Education Inst.              280           223           28          14
Total                               2,522         2,628          141         118
of which non-nationals                262           295          66           52
1/ end of the academic year
2/ beginning of the academic year
Source: Mission estimates and MEN Statistical Yearbook.
The breakdown of the higher education budget for the period 1985-1987
(Table 2) shows that poor resource allocation hampers the efficient operation
and development of the university. Less than 3% is allocated for materials,
and at least one third of this is spent, not on pedagogical supplies or
educational materials, but rather on the operation of the student restaurant
and the hiring of temporary teaching staff. The CAR has very few bilateral
funded scholarships (France transformed its scholarship program into
budgetary support and an in-service training/employment program in 1986) and
as a consequence, two thirds of the higher education budget is used to fund
scholarships. Of the total scholarship budget (estimated at 1,373 million
CFAF for the 12 months of 1987), 57% was used to fund scholarships abroad for
only 30% of the award holders. As a consequence, the University of Bangui



- 125 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 11
has been starved of operating resources. Specifically, the university
library, which was started only in 1980 and has one place for every 25
students, is both overcrowded and has a limited stock of works, many of which
out of date or not relevant to the courses taught at the university. A
similar situation exists in the science faculty, where the original equipment
(from a bilateral donor in 1970) is obsolete, broken and spare parts are
unavailable.
Table 2 - Higher Education Expenditure
(millions CFAF)
1985             1986           1987
Total expenditure                  1,883            2,133           2,073
Percentage distrib.
Materials                        2%               2%              3%
Salaries                       25%              25%             25%
Scholarships                   68%              67%             67%
Other                            5%               6%             6%
Total                          100%             100%           100%
Source: Mission estimates.
2.        Data on the labor force and the employment situation are scarce,
out of date and particularly unsystematic and unreliable e.g., a survey of
industry in the early 1980s was answered by only 20 firms of which 5 provided
information which was not contradictory. The employment statistics for 1981
show: 85% of the labor force engaged in the primary economic sector; 1% in
the secondary sector; and 4% in the tertiary sector, with the public service
employing over 26,000 people. Recruitment into the civil service has been
substantially reduced with the application of the finance law (3 francs of
savings for every 1 franc of new recruitment), but the mismatch between the
output of the education system and the employment market is not only quanti-
tative. The distortion in higher education which favors arts based subjects
(over 70% of scholarship awards are in these fields) has led to over-
production of graduates in humanities. The high level manpower requirements
of the CAR economy have not been quantified, nevertheless, it is apparent
that the demand for university trained manpower is limited, narrow and un-
likely to expand rapidly in the immediate future. This poses several
problems for the higher education system. First, the overwhelming need to
improve the quality of higher education in the CAR, both in terms of student
achievement and In terms of their relevance to the needs of the economy; this
implies qualitative improvements to the university and the means to adapt the
curreiit courses to short-term training. Second, the importance of avoiding
high cost overseas training which has drained higher education resources
thereby starving the university in the CAR. Third, the need to reduce the
overall output of higher education graduates to avoid serious graduate
unemployment.



- 126 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 3 of 11
Table 3 - National Scholarship Awards
1982/83             1983/84              1984/85
Number       %       Number        %      Number       X
By level:
lst cycle              1854     70%         1235      57%         1511    642
2nd cycle               672     26%          808      37%         721    302
3rd cycle               113      4%          133       6%          132     6%
Subtotal               2639    100%         2176    100%         2364   100%
By discipline:
Arts                   1839      70%        1684      77%         1774    752
Sciences                800     30%          492      23%         590    25%
Subtotal               2639    100%         2176    100%         2364   1002
By country of study:
RCA                    1775     67%         1332      61%         1695    722
Other African           393      15%         264      12%          225     9%
France                  333     13%          453      21%          378    16X
Other                   138       5%         127       6%           66     32
Subtotal               2639    100%         2176    100%         2364   1002
3.        Objectives and Means.  In order to assist the university adapt to
the labor market conditions, while reducing the social expenditures on higher
education, the project will provide inputs for the qualitative improvement of
higher education while assisting the Government put into place a scholarship
system designed to respond to the country's needs and take account of its
resources. Specifically, the project will:
(a) improve study facilities artd limited library space with: (i) the
doubling of the number of places in the university library with an
extention of the existing building; and (ii) an increase of 50% in
the number of works available from the library;
(b) renovate limited facilities for experimental work in science based
subjects with: (i) minor repairs to the science faculcy building;
and (li) the provision of a stock of basic laboratory equipment and
consumable supplies for the areas of mathematics, physics,
chemistry, biology and geology;
(c) support the university planning office with: (i) a micro computer
and office equipment; and (ii) specialist services to assist in
programming of short courses and the preparation of the university
development plan (computer programming, planning and budgeting,
student statistics and quota allocations);
(d) reinforce and develop the National Scholarship Service (SAD)
charged with administering the scholarship award system with:
(i) renovation of the office buildings, basic office equipment,
transport and furniture; (ii) micro computing facilities to
computerize the scholarship system; (iii) specialist services and
consultants to undertake specific studies on the success rates of
students in France, the elaboration of the quota system, the



- 127 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 4 of 11
computerization of the scholarship system, the labor market and its
high level manpower requirements, and planning and budgeting; and
(iv) training and study visits for the staff of the SAB.
4.        Approach/strategy.  One of the key targets of the Action Plan (see
Annex 3-1) is to reduce the proportion of the education sector budget spent
on scholarships from its current figure of 17% to 9% by the end of the
project. This can be achieved in two stages; first, a transition phase which
includes: the application of the existing texts and regulations governing the
award of new and the renewal of ongoing scholarships; the continuation of a
careful purge of the scholarship lists to exclude all fraud, double counting,
repetitions, and other anomalies; and the completion of the preliminary
studies required to develop a coherent and comprehensive quota allocation
system (the analysis of student success rates at the University of Bangui and
those with scholarships in France; detailed studies on the additional costs
of transport, lodging, social security, reciprocal inscription costs for
students abroad; and the elaboration of the draft texts needed for the
revised scholarship award system). Second, the implementation of the defini-
tive quota system which will govern the award of scholarships, together with
the computerization of scholarship records.
5.        The budgetary targets included in the Actirn Plan for the scholar-
ship program indicate that there will be a 35% nominal reduction, or a 50%
real reduction in the allocation for scholarships during the life of the
project. This reduction will be applied to the overseas scholarship alloca-
tion prior to any reduction in the amounts allocated for study at the
University of Bangui. Table 4 simulates the effect of: reducing the overall
scholarship allocation of the education sector budget from 17% to 9%;
reducing the proportion of the scholarship budget spent in France from 42% to
20%; holding the proportion of the budget spent abroad elsewhere at 15%; and
increasing the amount allocated to the Urniversity of Bangui from 43% to 65%.
The total number of scholarships declines from 2,200 to 1,780, and the number
abroad from 650 to 270, while the scholarships at the University of Bangui
remain stable at 1,500.



- 128 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 5 of 11
Table 4 - Simulation of the Scholarship Budget
and the Number of Award Holders
1987    1988   1989   1990      1991  1992  1993
SCHOLARSHIP BUDGET (Millions CFAF)
Secondary                              70       55     36      18        0     0      0
Higher                               1,376   1,335  1 205  1,119    1.052   999   943
Total                                1,446   1,390  1,241  1,137    1,052   999   943
Cost/student year
France                 1.358          577      518    429    364       309   262   218
Other abroad           0.944           209     203    182    169       159   150   142
Bangul                 0.381          591      615    593    586       584   586   583
Total                                1,376   1,335  1,205  1,119    1,052   999   943
% France                              42%      39%    36%    33%       29%   26%   23%
% Other                                15%     15%    15%    15%       15%   15%   15%
% Bangui                              43%      46%    49%    52%       56%   59%   62%
NUMBER OF PERSONS
France                                425      381    316    268       228   193   161
Other                                  221     215    193    179       168   159   150
Bangui                               1,550   1,614  1,557  1,538    1>533 1.539 1,531
Total                                2,196   2,210  2,066  1,985    1,929 1,891 1,842
% France                               19%     17%    15%    13%       12%   10%    9%
% Other                                10%     10%     9%      9%       9%    8%    8%
% Bangul                               71%     73%    75%    77%       79%   81%   83%
% Total                               100%    100%   100%   100%      100%  100%  100%
6.         The effort required from higher education to adapt to the new labor
market conditions and to reduce social expenditures will be that much easier
to make if resources are made available to improve the quality of higher edu-
cation. Hence, the improvement of the library and the science faculty of the
University of Bangui will be started prior to the implementation of the new
scholarship quota system.
7.         Timetable.  The details of the implementation calendar for this
component are given in the attached tables.
8.         Administration and Management.  For all activities relating to the
University of Bangui, the Ministry of Higher Education is the responsible
department. Daily implementation will be managed by the Rectorate of the
University, supported as necessary by the Project Coordination Unit located
In the MEN. As regards to the scholarship system, and the support and devel-
opment of the SAB, although this service is attached to the Presidency,
management responsibility will rest with SAB, assisted in procurement and
project accounting by the Project Coordination Unit of MEN, and by the DCES
for minor building repairs.
9.         Means and Costs.  Full details and costs of all inputs are provided
in the attached tables.



ANNEX 3-6
Page 6 of 11
SCHEDULE OF ACCOMODATION/
INVENTAIRE DES LOCAUX
_____________________
UNIVERSITY LIBRARY/BIBLIOTHEQUE UNIVERSITAIRE
---------------------------------------------                                      AMENAST.= 40.000 F.CFA/H2
EXTENS. 5110.000 F.CFAIP2
IN '000 US$
EN 000 F.CFA
ACCOMODATION           EXIST.   CURRENT  PROJECT.      AREA/  REQUIRED      TOTAL REMODEL.   EXTENS.       TOTAL
CAPACITY      AREA       AREA     PLACE   EXTENS.       AREA      COST      COST       COST
LOCAUX               CAPACITE   SURFACE  CAPACITE  SURFACE/   SURFACE   SURFACE        COUT      COUT       COUT
ACTUELLE EXISTANTE  PROJETEE      PLACE EXTENSION    TOTALE ANENA6T. EXTENSION        TOTAL
No                               U         P2         U         M2        P2         P2    F.CFA      F.CFA     F.CFA
I salle de lecture          100       123        200        1.3       137       260    4,920    15,070    19,990
2 stockage manuels       10,000         61    20,000        0.0        61        122    2,440      6,710     9,150
3 salle periodiques          10        30         10        3.0         0         30    1,200          0     1,200
4 bur.bibliothecaire          1         12         1       12.0         0         12      490          0       490
5 bur.acquisition             0          0         1       12.0        12         12        0      1,320     1,320
6 secretariat                 2         19         2        9.0         0         18      720          0       720
7 atelier reparation          0          0         2       12.0        24         24        0     2,640      2,640
8 hall/degagement             1         10         3       10.0        20         30      400      2,200     2,600
9 sanitaires                  2         10        10        5.0        40         50      400      4,400     4,900
10 recherchGs/theses           0          0         4        7.0        28         29        0     3,090      3,090
-______________   --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  -------- ..             _______   --------
TOTAL EN 000 F.CFA          -       264          -          -       322        596   10,560    35,420    45,990



ANNEX 3-6
Page 7 of 11
RFiPUBtlQtU  CEIERAFRlCAlNE
REHABlittATIOI ET DEtELOPPftFFNi SECTFUI  FDUCATION
table 5t  818IlOTHtOUE UNIlVERSItAIRE
Detailed Cost Table
(fCF^A
8oeakdowrn of Totals Ir,   Cont
IUSSi
Quant*ty
........- --- -  - ---- ----- -----   -t- -  -------ocal /Fxcl  Duties I
U-^t            ti98      1989    19go   199t 1992 1993 1994  Total    Unit Cost  to'  Etch             Taxes)l      Tsexs    Total
* - r * : t r Y r r t r;~~~~-      -     -    -   *-  -   =-    -   =-  -     -    -- = 
I  INVESTMENT COSTS
a GENIE CIVIL
I  APIEiNAGERENT                                       m2                 264                                                2614    39. 688       19. 835       22. 228         -   42. 063
2  ETENiTION                                                              Soo                                                500     109. 141     103. 305       t15.773             2t9.078
Sub lotat GENtE ClVII                                                                                                                                 123. 139      138. 001            261, 14'
8   MII8t IER                                          per place              200                 -           -                 200      29.766         tt.270        12.630         -   23,899
C  EQUIPEMEttT
I  STOCKAGE tIVRES                                  t0vwes             23.500        -                                   23.500          151       13.242                        -   13.212
2  FICHIERS                                           unite                  t        -                   -    *               ¶    250,945            939                               939
3  MICROINFORtTAIQvUE
itCRo                                              unite                                   t.1  2,206.309                                        8.711                              8.711
ONOULEUR                                          tunlte                          I                               -         1    787.968         3, 1t                        -    31 1tt
liMP9NANTE                                        unite                  -        t                                         1    472.781         18667                              I t.S67
tOGICiEtS                                          un'te                                                                    1 -  630,374         2,489                              2.489
Suib-tlotal NICRtIINFtORMATIOUE                                                                                                                     16. 177             -             16, 177
Sub-Total EQUIPEtENT                                                                                                                                   30. 3558                           30. 358
0. tIVRES
PREMifERE DOTATION                                    unite             2.000         -        -                           2.000       6.304       47. 182                            47, 182
DEUXIEiE DOYATION                                     unite                  -   3.500   2.000            -          -    5 500        6.304      138. 116                           138. 116
Sub-lotal tIVRF.S                                                                                                                                     185.298                            1 t852Y8
E  FORMATION EQUIJPE  t8 tt.OTitEQUE
STAGES RECYCLAGE PDNCTUELLE  /a                    Honme/jours              64       32       32                             128       1.373                         731          -       731
BOIIRSES                                           Nomm/mois                12 12                               -             24    630 374        56.236                             56. 236
VOYAGES                                           Atler/tetour               t        -        1          -                    2  1. 246. 695       9.268                         -    9.268
Sub-Total FORMAtION EQUIPE 6IBLItOTtEQIE                                                                                                               65.504            731              66 235
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                                                   415;569       tSN 362              56;931
11. RECURREHT COSTS
a  INCREENETAL OPERATtIG EXPENDITURES
FOURtlTURES                                   cotation annuelle             1        1        t    t    I    t                6    994.508        t3. 851         8.358              22 210
Sub-Total INEREMENTAl OPERATING EXPEMOtITURES                                                                                                         '3.85t          8.358         -   22.210
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                                      t3. 851        8.358          -   22.210
Tota l                                                                                                                                                    429. 420       159. 720         ;  589. 141
/a pour 8 persotwes pendant 4 Jourw
October 9, 1987  09:44



ANNEX 3-6
Page 8 of 11
REPUBtIOUE CENTRAFRICAINE
REHABILIIATION Et DEVELOPPEtENT SECIEUR EDUC8IIUN
Table 52. fACULTE DES SCIENCES . UNIVERSITE DE BANGUI
Detailed Cost Table
tFCf A)
Breakdown of Totals I  c. Cont
1US$)
Owntity                                                Local
---------------------------------------------                            IlExct.   uties 4
Unit   1988  1989   1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 Total    Unit Cost  For. Exch. Taxesl   Taxss    lotal
1. INVESTRENT COSTS
A. REFECTION LABOS FACUtTE SCIENCES
DIRECTIO                                      2        -     116    -    -                      116      14.883        3.448   3.937         -    7.385
AMPltITHEATRE                                .2        - t 200    -    -                      1.200      14.883       35.667  40.t29         -   76.396
i4*THENATIWUES                               .2        -      60    -    -                       60      14.883        4.756   5.431         -   10. 186
BIOlOGIE                                     m2              t80    -    -                      180      14.883        5.350   6. 109        -   11.459
PHfSIQUES                                   .2        -     145    -    -                       145     14. 883       4.310   4.921         -    9.231
CtINIE                                       m2        -     230    -    -                      230      14. 883       6.836   7,806         -   14. 643
CIRCULATION ET SANITAIRES                    m2        -      65    -    -                       165     14. 883       4.904   5. 600        -   to.505
ETANCHEITE TOITURE                            2        -     540    -    -                      540         S9S          642     733         -    1.375
TABLEAU EtECTRICITE                         unite      -       I    -             -                1    595. 314       1 189   1. 358        -    2.547
Sub-Total REFECTION LABOS FACULTE SCIENCES                                                                               67.102  76.625         -  143.727
B. EQUIPElENT / lATERIEl
1. NICROINFORNATIQUE ET NqATHEMATIQUES                        ---                                                    60. 181       -         -   60. 181
2. LABORATOtRES PHYSIQUE ET CHINIE                                       -                         -                  76.230        -        -   76.230
3. tG8ORAT0IRES 8I0tOGIE ET GEODLOGIE                         ---                                                     76.230        -        -   76. 230
4. SUPPORT DIDACTIOUE                                         ---                                                     20.060    -            - 20.060
Sub-Total EQUIIPEtENT /                                                                                                                                                                                      2ATERIEL  232.7701  -  -  232.701.7t
_     _ _  _  _  _- ---- - ------ - -- -- ---                                         L_O
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                     299.804  76.625          -  376.428
II. RECURRENT COStS
A. INCREMENTAL OPERATING EXPENDITURES
1. MATERIELS POUR LABOS                               1       3    3    3    3    3             i s6   497.254       18.625  tO.930         -   29.556
Su-Total INtCRERENTAL OPERATIfNG EXPEtItDTURES                                                                          18.625  10.930              29. 556
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                       18.625  10.930          -   29.556
=:::=:   ===V=:==::    =22:=:::
Total                                                                                                                       3t8.429  87.555          -  405.984
==0:=t=   2==22 :=    = = 19=8=70=:4
October S. 1987  09: 44



- 132 -                                                       ANNEX 3-6
Page 9 o-f 11
Oii'utioulOu  MCthiAI*luti
Of0091tii9tics19 Ii o 311 OTi'9'989i 019199  90990119
90b9e 101  ototrIoI  £919499  901  0999299
88.I4 tell tolom
'Ic'"t
a utmmsGlint 9ui t90191i18i9t
01@99tilo S99 4980*                                                      .2              228                                      220      20 itO        Ii 491         19 029               24 440
S96-101#i 989399286   Wells3  litstalis                                                                                                                      i3 All         05 029              28 443
*  (946404949 3ti41611  t 619806                                           P-1 o0             '4                                       '0    00  480            309 9'S       fAt:              I I 09
Ctou01004164
iRtGI4uUI                                                               30 .tl22                                                       432 4             lot23                            2its9
10910190911                                                         w"si                                                               0823             .292  9
tItCiJItI8iC49                      -II.                0                                       ~ ~~~~~~          ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 36  JO  41Ot
99011590 9(1108   ft                                                    to                                                       4     24  9 49            0                               40 49
9419i8C09i99                       ,..'.l.             I                                        I  i 000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WO 00 0  213         9  2
PAC" 111 04019                                                       V91                                                               13 S             81?                               319 11
19118                                                                                                                                                                                       St,  20?¶4    1231
s.hieI.Is  44919838io   990860                                                                                                                           21 091                             2       193
it' 26*0009                                                                                                                                            10                                 se
991319911 1999ff                9...l.              i   ...                                  I 4 304 906   10 900                               . II 900~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ........
S96340t*  18*50098                                                                                                                                       it. 91,2                            Is. oil
I890mi9clt3s                                                     6momo l8.             1 2   12   12   12   12   12             32    130 404        22. 241                             233243
9*981   399  40                                                                                                                                33 342                              32. 242
1099309188                                                       8681                   I                .I    338 040                                   098              -                 0
800091191ti09 I 00t&mlfICatl ovol                                                       I    I                                   2    330 049          3.026                              3.820
SI43l1S91fouls I I1.898511 994 low 99 QUO9                                              I    I                                   3    330 040          2 020                              2.020
9999 89093990 9 938116003 04 0391(1  ~ ~ ~ ~ .    .       .      .       .      .       .    I  2.183.344        13~.. 91.  . ..1......
Taus899999M9013901096480 /0 S/..Es                                                                  3    . I4S 74.83244                               0034 sit                           44344i
nil v 0418899El9U09      1 00989 to       t                            Alr/4l9                               2   2               6 .362, 244          390034                             394.4
9.t341ols  92t09                                                                                                                                        92. Its                             9 I?ts1
visif$ 91  t 0499 09399810 /6oi4 jo.vo                                                 28   38.s0                                       41.90                          .9                 9.8"3
4901"As9                                                        tIIMI.ltw                                                                                            to       0929.00  .   to 0901
091010009/.    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                 30   20           .                      09~~~~~~~es 11 1030                   9"9I99
9*  1938  0S99  II 4ll4                                                                                                                   I9?.I10                       00t2o33.0
91  994909164v$ /l8 it,ft Is                                                                                                                                              s    i                 .V
090G99i0*St flo   0I 18aI11C8916                                                            so/j,.;8    49                     130       1 233              .            41          .       641
9i6i9ll49lol0                                                                          soj,,s 9   so                      .   i3         1. $3203                                    . i608
foist15  19iU9009a IT                                                                                                                                                  2?f         021 .    33
1*141 1409998989 (OS39                                                                                                                                         244. 109        14.009              210. 32
a11 0892980099 (9999notuIR
0099068(1 689493968 199(9996514lU1 09 (9099485              901.1.09 4.,.wlI           I    I    I    I    I    I    .          0   .89  010         2?, 032        9s ?17              44  199
99199     i 090 11 34993898                                bot.II,, 4-*114            I    I    I    I    I    I              9A2.482.020          4 1.94         20 939               so 029
$1*  I@ot    t"Pl 0*908   c9 (03.19949999                                                                                                               es. 290        Li 392              i   049
9991.1.                                                                                 I     I          I    I    I            0  1.441 362         38. 333        12029t               13 210
98901193i(  399091419099?l900 I9 011890C90199                                          I    I    I    I    I    I               6     04?1 30         S 926         04139                It 9
19904119899 31(49 if OtioPhI                                                                       I    i    I    I             0  I 899 902         30 391         12 S)$              133  9
9*6  99141 l9988Pu2I9                                                                                                                                   49 49          29 290               I? 324
9*  1018   16c89434161 991849109 (1083094flul9                                                                                                           IlI? l         if 2  043            8  182
foe'l 011CORM  Costs                                                                                                    11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 I9  30   0  03 
Is  de,,s~ 9~890S4   9481
/9  049e #I49 40Wn p3 54,8811498es        3  Jm ,
/4  9.0go@w  094# 4pi 9...  W$.**41   Cmd.t ,.
/~~~ 8*$490 .9 8*09*9 9099 *0lc4l ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     . ...  ...
ac~    lost *1 01 84344  939809A*iI   9



ANN-EX _-f-
Page I1  of 11
REPUBI QUE CENTRAFRICAINE
REHABILITATION rl DEVEIOPPEmENT SECIEUR EDUCATION
Table 102 ETUDE ADEQUATION EDUCATION / EMPIOI
Detaled Cost Table
(rCFA)
Blreakdown of totals Incl Cont
(USV)
Quantity                                            tocat
----------------  ~~---~----------- -  -IEwIcl   Jutles a
Unit       1988 1989 1990 19gt 1992 1993 1994 Total  Unit Cost  for  ExcH  Taxes)  taxes   Total
1. INVFSTNENT COSTS
A. SPECIAtISTES NATIONAUX
CONSULTANTS ERPLOT t EDUCATION        Hroam uis         -    3  -3    269.665                                           -  3.564         -   3.564
Sub-Total SPECIALISTES NATIONAUX                                                                                           -  3,564          -   3.564
B. CONSUtTANTS INTERNATIONAUX
EXPERT EDUCATION                      Hosmr jour        -   40                                40    110.316       16.630       -         -  16,630
EXPERT EMPtOI                         HOtie jour        -   40                                40    110.316        16.630      -         -  16.630
PER DIEN                              "Om" jour         -   60-                               60     42.550        9.621       -             9.621
VOYAGES                              Aloer/rstour       -    4  -4  1. 246. 695                                    18, 793     -         -  18.793
5ub-Total CONSULTANTS INTERNATIONAUX                                                                                  61, 674               E- 1.674
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                   61;674  3.564          -  65,238
Total                                                                                                                     61.674  3.564          -  65.238
October 9. 1987  09:44



ANNEX 3-6
Page 11 of 11
REPtt8tIQUE CENWlRAFRlCAlE
REHABILITAFIOH ET DVE LOPPElNf1 SECIEUR EOUCATlIO
table III CfttUtE PLANIFICAtION UlNIVERS17t OE BAIGuIj
Detailed Cost Table
IFCTAl
8reaskdocn of Totals Inc l. Cont
tOSS)
Ouwnt ity                                          local
,, ,,,----------   ..,....     ... ..  ---     ----lE tcl         Duties    a
Unit      1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 Totel  Untt Cost  For  Each. Taxes)   taxes    Totas
1. INVESTtRENI COSTS
A. EQUIPENEtT
I. PICROIUFORIIAT1IJE
tt CRo                                                  units          I         -        -         -       1 2.206.309         8.257       -              8.257
OttULEUR                                                unite          I    --                    -1    787.968                 2.949       -         -    2. 49
MPREIMAtt E                                            unito          I    -                                     472. 7I        1. 769                     1.769
tOGICIElS                                               unite         I                                     1   630.374         2.359       -         -    2,359
Sub- totatl PtICROIUAFOR11QUE                                                                                                   5--   334                    15. 334
2  EQIJIPEENT St4REAliJ
CALCULATRICES                                           unite         2                                     2     3815136         270        -        -      270
MACHINES ECRtRE  /a                                     unito         2  -2    294.108                                          2.201                      2.201
PHOTOCOPIEUR                                            unit          1-                         *            1 t.SSS.859       5.823            -         5.823
Sub-Total EQUIPEIIENT BUREAU                                                                                                       S.-294       -        -   8.29<
Sib-Totel EQUIPENE%T                                                                                                                 23. r,29      -      --    23. 629
8. INItERtENTIN SPECIAtIStES IINTERNIATIONIALS
I. APPUI POICTUEttE
INFORIATIQIE                                        lli/mt           1-      -     -    -    - -       -  1   276. 040           986       -         -      986
WDGETISATItO  I PLANiFICATION                         lims/mois        I    1    -               2    2     6    276.040        6.453        -        -   6.453
STATTSTIQUES / ElABORAtIrOI QUOTAS                    Iehj/mois        I                        2    2      6    276.040        6.453        -        -    6.453
VOYAGES                                                lolr/r-towr    3    2          -          3    3    Ii  1.246.695       52.743                 -   52.743
Sut-Total APPUI PONCTCuELLE                                                                                                       66.634        -        -   66.634
Sub-Toetal INIIERVENTION SPECIALISTES INTERNATIOALIS                                                                                 66. 634                -   66. 634
Total IESTEt COSTS                                                                                                                      't0. 263 990. 263
tI. RECURRENT COSTS
1  iNCREMENTAL OPERATING EXPENOITURES
1. FOURNI4TURES
BUREAU                                                                                          I 1    I    1    1    1    -  6  1.491,762  20.777  12,538  -   33. 315
ENtRETIEN NICROINTORNAIIQUE ET PHIOTOCOPIEUR                         I    I    I    t    t    I    -       6    497.254        6.926   4. 179        -   11. 105
FOURNITURES MICRO ET REPRO                                           I    1    I    I    I    1    -       6  1. 491. 762     20.777  12,538             33.315
Siu-Total FOURlITURES                                                                                                            48.479  29.255             ; 77. 734
Sub-Total INCREMENTAL OPERATING EXPENDITURES                                                                                        48. 479  29.255        -   77, 734
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                   48.;479  29;.255            77.734
Total                                                                                                                                   138.1742  29.255         -  167.997
/a  deui% groades clavtiere. non-electrIque
October 9. 1987  09: 44



- 135 -                      ANNEX 3-7
Page 1 of 9
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPORT TO HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
1.        Background.  With a staff of about 6,000 (1986) and a budget
equivalent to about one-fourth of the national total, the Ministry of
National Education (MEN) is the largest government department. However, as
with the rest of the civil service, in the early 1980s, MEN was, and still
largely is, plagued with numerous problems: (a) overstaffing and skills
mismatch, due to supply driven recruitment; (b) inefficiency due to lack of
clearly defined objectives, functions and criteria, poor coordination, and
excessive regulations; (c) fraud and low productivity due to a lack of
controls and operating means; and (d) demotivation due to the lack of profes-
sional opportunities and (since 1982) frozen salaries. All these factors
have contributed to the low quality of education.
2.        To address these problems for the whole civil service, in 1982 the
Government launched a Public Administration Reform (PAR) aimed to: (a) re-
duce the administration's operating expenses, especially the salary bill,
which had reached an unsustainable level; (b) improve the administration/
financial management of government personnel; (c) streamline government
structures; and (d) upgrade the skills of civil servants. This PAR, which is
being implemented under supervision of a "Permanent Reform Council" (Conseil
Permanent de la Reforme Administrative Centrafrication - CPRAC), has begun to
bear fruit, with a reduction of the Government salaries/budgetary receipts
ratio from 89.3% in 1981 to 58% in 1985 (the objective is 50% by 1990).
Given the size of MEN, improving the management of its human resources and
restoring a career structure as part of PAR would markedly promote global
efficiency and cost saving objectives; it would enhance the ability of the
education system to produce graduates who are better equipped for direct
employment or for further training. Finally, it would provide a model for
other departments.
3.        Objectives.  In line with IDA's recently approved structural
adjustment credit, this component would support the implementation of PAR by
improving personnel management in the Ministry of Education with two
objectives: (a) containing the growth of the wage element of educational
unit costs and reducing administrative staff costs in favor of teacher costs;
and (b) improving the efficiency of MEN's staff. In turn, these would be
important ingredients for a successful implementation of the country's 1984
education reform. Intermediate objec.ives under (a) are to: (i) eliminate
fraud; (ii) enforce the existing, recently simplified, regulations concerning
retirement, family allowances, cost of living adjustments, etc.;
(iii) exercise budgetary controls; and (iv) increase the teacher/non-teacher
ratio. Under (b), they are to: (i) streamline organization and procedures;
(ii) increase productivity through improved supervision; (iii) increase
professionalism through training; (iv) ensure greater continuity by reducing
staff rotation; and (v) increase motivation and competition through
non-salary incentives.



- 136 -                      ANNEX 3-7
Page 2 of 9
4.        Expected outcome.  Through a strict application of existing regu-
lation (retirement age, sanctions, rule making new recruitment conditional
upon previous savings on personnel in the ratio of 1:3), this project com-
ponent is expected to result in a somewhat leaner institution (with staff
numbers reduced by 3-5%); more importantly, the skill profile of staff would
be enhanced, as new recruitment would focus on individuals with skills not
yet found, and badly needed, such as planners, policy analysts, economists
and statisticians, to sharper the Ministry's strategy formulation capacity.
The wage element of costs is expected to marginally increase, from 80% (1987)
to 82% (1993) of MEN's total recurrent expenditures because newly recruited
staff will be more qualified. Containing the growth of the total salary bill
will allow budgetary increases to be allocated to quality inputs such as
pedagogic materials or teacher in-service training. This, combined with
improved staff morale and competition due to increased career opportunities
and more rigorous supervision, will provide the conditions for improvements
in the quality of education, Government's main objective for the sector.
5.        Approach/strategy.  As a first step towards rationalization, in
1986 MEN adopted a new, streamlined organization chart which underlines the
central role of the Minister's cabinet for strategic thinking and policy
formulation and clearly separates administrative from pedagogic functions.
In addition, the strategy to improve the Ministry's management combines
government-wide measures with MEN-specific ones, aimed at increasing controls
on one hand, and incentives on the other. These include: (a) the computeri-
zation of MEN's personnel functions; (b) the preparation and implementation
of a staffing plan and the linking of MEN's budget to authorized posts; and
(c) the introduction of measures to further rationalize MEN's structures,
improve staffing and increase efficiency; the most critical of these measures
would form part of the Action Plan.
6.        During project preparation, the computerization of MEN's Personnel
and Budget Directorates started, as part of PAR, with the assistance of the
National Computer Center ("Office National d'Informatique" - ONI) and of
internationally recruited consultants. This activity includes: (a) a
complete check of all personnel records and their transfer first to a new,
more precise manual filing system, then to a computer data system (January -
October 1988); (b) the purchase of two micro-computers (January 1988);
(c) the merging and transfer to MEN, for each civil servant, of the computer
databases for performance records (as updated by MEN), salary history (previ-
ously held in the Ministry of Finance), and career information (previously
held in the Ministry of Civil Service) (January - March 1988); (d) creation
of a data processing unit under IDA's Second Technical Assistance Project
(IDA Cr. 1581CA), with UNDP funding of a full-time computer specialist and a
programmer, to meet the data processing needs of the Ministry at large (July
- August 1987); and (e) initial training of the Personnel Directorate staff
(September - December 1987) under joint USAID-Canada financing.
7.        The staffing plan was conducted by a team consisting of MEN's
Personnel staff, with the assistance of a Canadian consulting firm who has
been associated with this exercise for several other ministries in CAR. They
analyzed MEN's objectives, its organlzation and procedures and the profile of
each civil servant in relation with the tasks he/she is expected to perform.
The problem areas identified included:



- 137 -                      ANNEX 3-7
Page 3 of 9
(a)  structures:  although the 1986 organigram represents a substantial
improvement over the previous one, a number of units (notably, the
Directorates of Planning, Pedagogic Research, and External Rela-
tions) are still not fully integrated into MEN's mainstream, or
suffer from an unclear mandate and ill-defined procedures;
(b) staffing: 100 out of 325 posts in MEN were identified as redundant
(Table 1), and the proportion of non-teachers in the sector was
found to be excessive (11%), especially in secondary education,
where it reaches 27%; the utilization of human resources is sub-
optimal, as shown by the extensive use of expensive long-term
contract employees or overtime by existing civil servants, in areas
for which young graduates have adequate qualifications, and by the
large number of teachers (about 200) waiting to be assigned for
duty, or retirees still on the active duty payroll. Qualitatively,
the Ministry is overwhelmingly staffed with teachers who have not
been trained to perform administrative tasks; and
(c) operating efficiency: productivity is low at various levels for
different reasons. Among the administrative staff, this is due to
a lack of information about MEN's objectivea, insufficient delega-
tion of authority and accountability, poor or no administrative
training (sub-para. (b) above), compounded by a lack of financial
rewards for exercising responsibility and takirng risks (the average
net salary range in the public sector is only from 20,000 CFA for a
primary education graduate to 110,000 CFA for a higher education
graduate). Poor internal and external information and coordina-
tion, and the lack of data are additional constraints. Among
teachers, poor performance results from insufficient support and
control by inspectors, low motivation due to the elimination of
professional exams and in-service training opportunities and a
rating system which leaves considerable room for favoritism.
8.        On the basis of this diagnosis, organization, staffing and perform-
ance norms were set by MEN. In order to implement them, an advisor from
CPRAC was seconded to MEN as Personnel Director, and steps are proposed in
each of these three areas. First, the Ministry is in the process of further
streamlining its organization chart. The pedagogic research and teacher
training Directorate will be reorganized to avoid duplication between INRAP
and CNFC and its permanent staff will be pared down in favor of short-term
specialists to allow more flexibility in meeting evolving training
priorities. The role and authority of the Administration and Personnel
Directorate (DAP) will be strengthened principally through a revision of
promotion procedures and an improvement of its coordination with the rest of
the Ministry.
9.        Second, the Action Plan will include targets and indicators con-
cerning staff numbers and profile (Details on the staff reduction and reas-
signment program are given in Table 2 while Table 3 provides an estimate of
potential savings and their proposed use). A small Training Unit (one higher
level individual, one support staff) would be created within DAP, with well
defined procedures. The training officer, as well as other DAP personnel
responsible for this component, would receive specialized training and



- 138 -                      ANNEX 3-7
Page 4 of 9
technical assistance in computer operation, personnel management and the
design of training programs. Each year the Training Unit would, as part of
the Action Plan, and on the basis of identified needs, design and arrange a
program aimed at upgrading the skills of managers, technical staff, and
support personnel. Managers would, together with their colleagues from other
ministries, attend seminars regularly organized under PAR by the Central
African "Ecole Nationale d'Administration et de Management" (ENAM) with
assistance from Quebec's Ecole Nationale d'Administration Publique (ENAP).
Inspectorate staff, pedagogic advisers, school directors and teachers would
receive in-service training organized at CNFC and CPRs by the Directorate of
teacher training under project financing. Organization and motivation
seminars would be offered in-house for administrative and clerical personnel,
using specialized local consultants. Because of its low cost, the latter
item would not be included in the project.
10.       Third, to improve administrative efficiency, at the first annual
review, Government would submit detailed operating procedures, revised to:
(a) decentralize to the academic inspectorates an increased degree of
decisiotu power regarding routine staffing matters; (b) reduce staff turnover
to 10% annually; (c) introduce regular staff meetings as well as management
and staff information procedures; and (d) establish a properly timed, well
designed, annual data collection operation to meet the information needs of
the various directorates. To improve teacher efficiency, the inspection
process would be strengthened, an in-service training system would be set up,
and incentives such as the reinstatement of a professional competitive exam
for teachers are being envisaged.
11.       Timetable.  Table 2 provides the timeframe and other details on
this component.  The Action Plan, agreed upon at negotiations, will be
subject to yearly joint Government-IDA review. After the end of the project,
it is expected that the Action Plan and the monitoring of a number of input
and output indicators will have become routine management techniques of MEN.
12.       Administration and management.  Responsibility for this component
will be entrusted to DAP, properly backed up by ONI and by functional short-
term technical assistance. A modest training program design capacity will be
created within DAP. The DAP team, as well as the Budget Directorate, will
report to the Minister through the Director General of Administration and
Finance. It will liaise closely with MEN's Data Process'ig Unit, the Reform
Council and the Ministry of Civil Service, to ensure thaL PAR implementation
in the Ministry of Education proceeds in line with Government-wide plans.
13.       Means.  The project will finance for DAP:  (a) furniture, equipment
and office supplies; (b) 24 manmonths of scholarships abroad in the areas of
computer science, personnel management, and training piogram design; (c) 6
manmonths of local training to initiate staff in computerized personnel
management techniques; (d) 6 man-months of short-term consult:nt services to
provide initial assistance in (i) operating the new personnel management
system; and (ii) designing and organizing the staff training program.
14.       Detailed costs.  Cost estimates for this component are based on
specific unit costs which have been standardized throughout the project
(DATGEN). Table 4 provides details.



ANNEX 3-7
Page 5 of 9
Table 1 - Staff Redundancies Identified in the Central Ministry of National Education
Staff Numbers                            Proposed
Administrative Unit                                                  1986-1987                             Staff Numbers
External Relations Directorate                                                            3                                       3
Financial Comptroller                                                                     0                                       3  (center)
5 (regions)
General Directorate for Education/Training                                                5                                       5
General Directorate for Administration and Finance                                        4                                       4
General Directorate for Continuous Education                                             26                                       2
6
Directorate for Pre-school and Primary Education                                          8                                       6
Director.ite for Secondary and General Education                                          7                                       6                   1
1 (vacant)
Directorate for Pedagogic Researcb and In-service Training                              113                                      41
Directorate for Eaminations and Competitive Examinations                                  7                                       5
Directorate for Administration and Personnel                                             19                                      17
3 (vacant)
Directorate for Budget, Accounting and Employment                                        24                                      18
Directorate for School Construction and Equipment                                        11                                       9
School Insurance Group                                                                    4                                       0
Total                                                       323                                     204



ANNEX 3-7
Page 6 of 9
1sabl  2 - Supporc to Hum.n Resource Manageoent Compot;entt
Activity                     Ktbpunsibility                 Agents              ',tart/lFnish            Pinaucing                                      lt.c,,
A. t ..pgr..lz.th.r.t .' N M'          - DIre.atrat*-tGenegal  - Diretorate, Adetnis   March 87/June B9   Pr,,posed Project
P,rsawmel Functlon                   Adminlstrati.n and        tration and Personnel
Finance (DAF)            (DAP)
- ONI
- Pit .uunc I I
- International
consultant
(l) V.rlttcacs.t ot all            - DAP                     - DOP Director +            April II7                                - nomination of a component coordinator
per.onnel flies and                                      - each directorate         Hay/Dec 8e                                - manual che.k of aIl petoannel tecotds
ctgitlon ot improved                                                                 January 87                               - receipt of furnlture/supplies (cards., file. tiling
manual personnel record                                                              Jan/June so                                cabinets, PC)
systea                                                                                                                        - transfer of updated intorastion to new fJllng system
(sanual)
(It) Creatlon of a computer-        - Cabinet                 - DAP                       August 87                                - recruitment of a full-time computer specialist and a
itzed personnel record                                                                                                          programer
system                                                                              Jun/March 88                              - remodellng of computer room
- dellvery of computers
Jan/Oct 88                               - transfer of updated personnel informationl to computer
syatem
Mdrch 88                                 - transfer to MEN of the tciree merged data baseu
March & Oct 88                           - TS  (2 months In 88, one montb each in 89 & 90)                    G
(iii) Training                       - DAP                     - DA                        Sept/Dec 87          US/Catoda           - Scholarlaip:  US/Canada in u°N. policy analyuis. manage-
ment in(oreat ion systems 3cm x 3
Jan 88-Jun 90                            - Schularshlps:
international
, computer science - 4 x 2
personnel kanagement - Om x 2
training program design - 3m x 2
local
. computetrized pe¢ronnel management - Zen a 2
8. A.tlon Plan                         - Review Comittee         - DAP                      Jan 88 - Dec 93                           - Reduce percentage of non-teaching 2taff in the education
sector ftom II% in 1987 to 71 In 1993 throughl staff
(i)  Containment of the vage                                                                                                          redeployment
element of educational                                                                                                        - following on-going physJcal checks and medical controls,
costs                                                                                                                           eliminate all post  ftilled by nm- lestent staffs. and
dismlss staff guilty of serious p-ofeossonal misconduct as
per extsttng rules
- strictly apply existintg rules concerning retirement
(nuabers:  48 in 88; 60 In 69; 56 In 90), lmits on family
allowances, sanctions, etc.



ANNEX 3-7
Page 7 of 9
Dates
Activity                    Responsibility                 Atents               Start/Finish           Finanocing                                    Ite m
C. Acttvittis to be Monitored at
the Annual Reviev
(1)    i,cr.^sue of  EN's staff
etfJciency
tratning                   - DAF                    - DAP'* training unit    198h - 1993                                - subsit an annual In-service training program and budget
for MENW.e
Government               managers/odministrators (at EWAN. under PAlt)
Proposed Project         teaching personnel
Government               suppott staff
I,nctntives                - Cabinet, in coOpe-                                 1988                                    - government to submit proposals for the Introductton of a
ration vtth Ministries                                                                       certtfication procedure;
of Plan/Econoay/Finance
and Civil Service                                 1991                                     - introduction of professtonal exaination for the upgradigi
of a total uf 15 teachers per annum
(tl)  organization and
procedures                      Cabinet                 - DAY                      1988 Annual          Proposed Project  - Detailed proposasl  for:
Reviev
- Concerned                                                             (1) delegating authority to inspections academiques,
directotates                                                             espectally for routlie staff movements;
(ii) giving mote responsibility to Directora;
(iii) limiting turnovar to 102 of staff In any given year;              $-
(iv) establishing a management Information system                      4s
including regular staff meetings. publiasting acttvity
otatus reports, and data base on educstlonal Inputs
and outputs.
- laplectntation of agreed-upon proposals vithin three
monthu of 88 Review.



ANNEX 3-7
Page 8 of 9
Table 3 - Potential Savings on the Szlary Bill as per MEN's Staffing Plan and Their Proposed Use
The figures shown have been estimated using a combination of physical controls, computer cross-checks and institutional analysis. In
some cases they are only rough indications, given to provide a sense of what would be theoretically feasible.
Average Salary     Theoretical
or Cost p.a.    Maximum Savings                                       Estimated
Category                       Number  (CFAF million)   (CFAF nillion)                Assumption              Savings 6/
(CFAF m)
Retirees 11                                         336         1.0                336         Rules strictly applied                336
"Vacataires" 2/                                     440         0.25               110         Reduction by 113                       36
"Contractuels" 3/                                   107         1.16               124        Reduction by 1/3                        41
Redundant staff 4/                                  119         1.0                119         Not affordable for the time being       0
Cases of Professional Misconduct 51                 100         0.85                85         Reduction by 112                       75
Cases of fraud on long-term  training abroad S/      50         1.0                 50
Total                       1,152*                                                                             488
* There may be some overlap between the various staff categories.
1/   As civil servants retire, their pensions are paid by the Treasury out of the Government's Pension Fund, and their salaries repre-
sent a saving for MEN's budget.  For the years ahead, the computer listing projects the following number of retirees:  1988 - 48;
1989 = 60; 1990 = 56; 1991 - 85; 1992 = 87.
2/   "Vacataires" are civil servants wbo cumulate a full-time job and additional services on a part-time basis, i.e., almost
exclusively MEN employees teaching at the University of Bangui. In a number of cases, comparable qualifications are found among
young graduates who are unemployed. Government is reviewing the possibility of substituting those young graduates for some of the
"vacataires".
3/  "Contractuels" are fixed-term  employees, whose contracts have been renewed many times, although their posts are sometimes
redundant. Under the staffing plan, the positions which cannot be justified will be closed, and others will be filled by
recruiting young "stagiaires contractuels" (i.e., graduates awaiting recruitment in the civil service).
4/   Staff identified as "redundant" (about 120 in the Ministry itself- see Table 1) will be made available to an existing Go-trnment-
wide "Personnel Bank" and will: (1) either be retrained under the PAR (cf para. 9 in Annex 3-3); or (ii) encouraged to leave with
a severance payment (however, this voluntary departure program has remained a deadletter due to a lack of funding); or (tit) placed
in another Government department or development organization, depending on their skills.
5/ In addition to the staffing plan, MEN has started to: (1) identify, through the inspectorates, and through physical and medical
controls in the field, all its employees guilty of serious professional misconduct (absenteeism, alcoholism) with a view to
dismissing them; and (ii) monitor closely staff members receiving long-tern practical training abroad, to eliminate gross
excesses. Ranges of 100-150 individuals for category (i), and 50-90 for category (11) have been quoted, but theF are not yet
based on hard evidence and should be treated with caution. Therefore the lower end of the range has been used.
6/  As a priority, Government proposes to use whatever savings it can achieve to recruit "stagiaires contractuels", i.e., young gradu-
ates awaiting recruitment in the civil service (about 750). With savings of about CFAF 488 million, application of the 1:3 rule
would theoretically allow new hiring equivalent to about CFAF 163 million p.a.; this amount could finance the recruitment of about
271 (or 36% of the "stagiaires contractuels", whose salaries average CFAF 0.6 million p.a.).  Because these young people are
generally more qualified and eager to work, such a move would enhance the profile and productivity of MEN.



kLtAlatitlallOU tl DtVttUPPIRtUI SECltUR EWOUCAI40
tcbt-e St CtSTIOr PE1S1Stt1E1 tt£tt                                                                            ANNEX   3-7
Detailed Cost Tablt                                                                                                        9
uClA)l                                                                                            Page  9  of9
BSeahdottn of l0ta15 Incl Cant
cUSS)
Quant ity                                                 tocal
----------------  -- - ------ ----- ---- -------                              It(el   Duttes S
Unit           t988   19t9 1990 t991 1992 t993 1994  total    Unit Cost  for  Each laTesl   tlaes    lots)
I  1Mf$1147IA    COSIS
A  tO4tgRTIOt IT INItRvEtNTItNl CONSULTANTS
.. .. ..... .... .. .. ..  .   .. . . . . .
I  roRatlou tOUIPE NATlONAIE
E1WRSfS lttrORN2T20UE  2e                   Hrm   i .5               4 4                                        8    630.374        18.510        - *           18.510
BOURSfS CGStION PERSONNlEL  /b              Hon .   ois              8    8    --                                    630.374       37 020                   -   37.020
BOURSE FORtUtlON  /4c                       Noie mots                3-                                        3    630. 374        6. 756        *         -    6.756
VOYAGES                                    Slbee/r/totur             3    2                                    5  1.246.695        22.'5'         -         -   22.757
SI80tS LOCAUR  /d                             ameo most              3    3                                     6    277.18             -   7.069               7.069
Stt-lotst F0t4tttM4 t§IPE  Att4IOlfi41t                                                                                                S5.043   7.069          -   92. t3
2 SPECIALISlES
CONSULTANTS GtSTIOlt PERSONNEL              2 owne MIS              2    I    t                                 4  3.782.244       SS.883                   -   55.883
VOYAGE                                     Allor/rotour              1    1    I                                3  t 24S.695        13,96?        -             13 967
CONSULTANTS tOCaUX  /*                      Ho  emlue                t    I          -                          2    269.665             -   2.293               2.291
Sub-tol SPECIAtISTES                                                                                                                   69. 850   2.293         -   72. 43
S-tb-Total 121l"A8ION El INIEFRvENtION CONSUitANTS                                                                                       t54. 693   9.362         -  164. 256
B  MOILIIR ET tEUIPEIENt D4AP
. . .... .. ... ..........
t  ttICROINtORrATIOUtE
MICRO                                          Unito                                                           2 1  2. 206. 309     B. 257                       8.257
OtoULA4EUR                                     Units                 I                                          I    787.968        2.949         -         -    2.949
INPRIPANtI                                     Unit                  I         *1    412. t1                                        1 t69        -               1 .769
tOGICIEtS                                      Unite                 I-                                         t  630.374    2.359                              2.359
Sub-Total NICROItOlrIAT 1QE                                                                                                            I5. 334       -         -   25 334
2. BURitAU
IACHINI EtRIRt                                 Unott                2 -2  45<.?0                                                    3.361    -                   3.381
cALCutalARict                                  Unit                 2                                          2      36. 236         270        -                 270
PIOtto0PIEUr                                   Units,                I                                             1.St,.859        5.823        -               5.823
PLACARO Of RANGEtENT                           Unite               23  -23    148.829                                               6.480   7.262          -    3. 742
ttAGERES                                       Unite               23                                         23      '4.883          648      726         -    1.3t4
DOSSIERS SUSPENffS                             Unit.            8.00000                                                  279        2. 705   3.03                S .736
Sib-Total BUREAU                                                                                                                       t9.307 WZ.02W               30. 326
Sib-Total tOBILIER (E  EQUIPEltEtT ttP                                                                                                    34.64t I      1.Ot      -   45.660
total INVESTENTI COSTS                                                                                                                      289.534  20.382          -  209.916
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. IOURtIITURES
POUR "iCRO                                     p.tr e o                I    I    2    I    t    1                 6    374.73t        5.219   3.149           -    8.369
FICtES PERSONNELS                           dotatlon uniqu       30.000-                                    30.000           40       2.582   t 929                4. 5t
Sub-total FOURINTTURES                                                                                                                    7.80t    5.078              12. 879
Totel RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                         *.801   5.078           -   12.879
Total                                                                                                                                         29?. 335  25. 460        -  222. 795
..... -. .....     .     .............. ..   ..............................:::::                                                                         s ::    :: :        :t
la  2 personnel, choqe ouw  4  tois
/b  I en gost 'on POtSonnl. I on torat tIon personnel. dut.0 8 ois chque petsonne
fe  enocept son dno  f3toQ3s,
/d  2 vnrso:.nor a I 9tt. 2 p.,sonons CPRA. 6 seomAnos posr csaq.te pt.snni'
/0  Info,fttlq.*



- 144 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 1 of 6
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL AND PHYSICAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
1.        Background.  The Ministry of National Education has almost one-
third of the total civil servants in the Central African Republic, and the
education sector consumes over one-quarter of the Government's recurrent
expenditure budget. In spite of this impressive responsibility, the devel-
opment of the MEN's managerial, administrative and analytic capacities have
kept pace neither with the growth in size and complexity of the sector, nor
with recent developments in managerial techniques and tools. To rdapt the
administrative structure, the Government revised the internal organization of
the MEN in January 1986, and during 1986-87, a subsequent revision of the
budgetary nomenclature was made to reflect these internal changes. These
improvements, while necessary, have not been sufficient to ensure the desired
improve-.ent in the management of financial and physical resources.
2.        Problems which exist at present in the financial management of the
sector include: (a) a lack of coherent, systematically applied financial
procedures; (b) poor budgeting and accounting procedures; (c) weak database
and information systems; (d) lack of trained and experienced staff; and
(e) inadequate office space and equipment. Budget preparation, in the last
few years, has been principally determined by the need to limit expenditures
and has left very little initiative to MEN. Personnel expenses are dictated
by recruitments and promotions, both frozen since 1982. Domestic investment
funds have remained little more than symbolic and consequently only material
expenditures retained some quasi-flexibility. However, even in this area,
the very tight expenditure controls have not allowed more than small changes
in one line item, on condition that an equal but opposite change was made in
an item elsewhere. The reality is that it has been almost impossible to
reduce existing budgetary lines, especially to fund a new budget item, with
the result that most new budgetary items receive a token allocation, far
below their needs, and this allocation remains small, especially in com-
parison with historic budget lines.
3.        With respect to the managenient of physical resources, the problems
include: (a) sparse, fragmented and unreliable data on the condition of the
school buildings, furniture and materials; (b) conflict in the responsi-
bilities for the control and management of educational buildings;
(c) inefficient purchasing and procurement procedures; (d) limited storage
and distribution facilities; and (e) rapid deterioration of physical
facilities owing to lack of maintenance and capacity to plan its financing.
4.        Objectives.  The main objective of this component is to improve
resource allocation and management, especially in the areas of: (a) budget
preparation, financial management, accounting, cost monitoring and expendi-
ture control; (b) general procurement procedures, bulk purchasing and
contract management; (c) management and control of the physical resources of
the education sector; and (d) the strengthening of the database systems



- 145 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 2 of 6
needed for resource management. The objective of the proposed budgetary
breakdown is to allow MEN to compensate for the past lack of any coherent
budget allocation criteria, especially for materials, since this category
will triple during the project period.
5.        This component would support the creation of a management infor-
mation system for the control and monitoring of financial and physical
resources. The required outcomes of this component include: (a) wide
coverage of financial areas in the management database system; (b) improved
allocation and more efficient use of limited resources; (c) an improved
financial management capacity, with more realistic budgeting and accurate
accounting; and (d) reduction in the costs of materials through improved
procurement procedures.
6.        Approach/Strategy.  The project would assist in strengthening the
key directorates and units of the MEN involved in resource allocation and
management. These include: (a) the Cabinet, which controls the data proces-
sing unit; (b) the General Secretariat, which coordinates administrative
matters in the MEN; and (c) the General Directorate of Administration and
inance, which controls the Personnel Directorate, the Budget and Accounting
Directorate, and the School Construction and Equipment Directorate. A
working party of the senior managers of the MEN concerned with resource
allocation, as listed above, will assist in defining the key criteria to be
adopted during the annual budget preparation.
7.        With respect to budgetary allocations for materials, instead of
proceeding with pro-rata increases for each budgetary line item, more
objective criteria must be introduced to take into consideration the size and
nature of the institution or unit under consideration. Three simple criteria
are proposed. Firstly, for schools and institutions, the criteria should be
based on the number of pupils or students (a small lycee should have less
than a large lycee; and, more importantly, there should be a certain pro-
portionality between the credits and the enrollment). Secondly, for central
administration services, the indicator should be the number of staff (a unit
of 100 persons will require more than a unit of 10). Thirdly, for transpor-
tation operating expenditures (fuel and maintenance costs for vehicles) the
priority will be given to those services whose task requires mobility
(inspectorates) as opposed to the central services.
8.        The project would create a physical facility management unit within
the DGAF to maintain and manage existing infrastructure and its financing
through increased local authority and community participation; jointly with
DCES, it would maintain a computerized Inventory of existing facilities in
the three project regions, decide on basic construction/equipment/maintenance
standards, approve curricula on basic maintenance techniques for teacher
training and prepare the rolling triennial plan for school construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance. The technical advisor of the URCES, posted
in each of the three regions, would serve as liaison between the APEs,
communities, academic inspectorates, DCES and DGAF. With respect to
procurement procedures, the project would help DGAF strengthen its capacity
through a task force which would be responsible for the preparation of
standard documents to bring the procurement procedures in CAR in line with
the Bank procedures.



- 146 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 3 of 6
9.        Timetable and costs.  The implementation calendar is given in the
attached summary tables which also detail the quantities and base costs of
the elements financed by the project.
10.       Administration and Management.  Responsibility for the implemen-
tation of the different elements of the component would be given to the
Cabinet for the data processing unit; to the DGAF for all activities relating
to itself, the DCBM and DCES; and to the DEPP for the statistics section.
11.       Means.  The project would finance:  (a) minor civil works to
improve office space and adapt existing buildings for the above key
directorates and units; (b) one micro-computer for the data processing unit,
the DGAF, and the DCBM; (c) general office furniture and equipment for the
data processing unit and the DGAF; (d) one light vehicle and six mobylettes
for the DGAF; (e) forty-eight manmonths of locally based in-service training
for existing staff in the three key units and eighteen manmonths of overseas
training in the fields of procurement, inventory of physical facilities,
budgeting systems and education statistics; (f) a total of ten manmonths of
short-term consultant services from foreign specialists and twelve manmonths
of local specialists; and (g) limited incremental operating expenditures for
vehicles and micro-computers.



- 147 -                                                             ANNEA 3-8
REPUBL8IQUE88111F8,,li                                                         Page    4    of    6
RtO.I 1181110128£1 E    It0CItDP88E0t 81tC0UR fWCSIIDlt
tabla  t, RtSSOURCtS lltt itClts fS t VHtSIOUES i outr I
O8lied Cost table
II Cl II~~~~~~~~~~~~flttsIv"cn
8.'.k oio Tet.61* tlac   tont
iUS$t
if                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~tosm
81..ntl ly                                                           Locil
.......    .......   ..  ........    .... ...............                 ta     .  048t.I ,  a
un.8          1988  199       1990    1991      t992     1199     1894    total    Unit Cost  ho   Luck  UsesI            Texsu,    Total
~~~~~~~~~....  ,w ,s .....                                        .........., .t ... I..   s......                  .s .....  ........t*wats ttttsst s*$f 
I. I1V999RIil COStS
. iEt ;tt;lt tO(t0tl tiltlia8s                                   tt2                      s80                                                             29. 1e         4. 1SS   S.431               1a, IS
9. PtAE AtION Et 8088F02    101
....I.. .. ..  .. .. .. ..
1 ItlitatitlOtt ciNSuttalsi
.. .....  -. o .  .... ... ..
SffCIRtIISt GtSllt4t OU P9A1818018   /A,              Nee pueJr                    60                                             -        90     110            28. JS 76t?                   38, 11
P SSRllt4i  ARCHS 1   lb                              totr/Jourj          J9       SO       30                                            120     1.216 4"O9IS       48                   -   49.948
pil etu                                                  .oo              sO      120       30                                            310      42.S0         33J 29         -              3 3.23
00188                                                Al 1orlrhtow          2        2        i                                    -         S  1248.69           232 it8                       is. 1I1
S'*-lotsAl  141t1VEl1I11 CoNSUUTtIMS                                                                                                                               142 8 t2                   -  142. 12
2. FlO     tl89     PASSSSltt4t 8A81S
.... ............................ _
FORMATION A t EIR8 0  R1     IC                       Ito.me solo         10                                                               to    82.3224         22,9 19                       22. St
(91*00                                               A  II*' /,910.        I                                                                It,  1248, 899        4.494         -4, 494
tlSlltS 880a8v  to0                                  Alh- ter to           -        2                                                       2    602. 288         4.59 s                        4.539
8180cR                                                   J.*                       480                                                     40      42,990         8.414         -                ,414
S2b   tsl FO tiOt PASSIlO8  8ES                                                                                                                                     Jt918- It92
............. I......... ..... ..... .........   
SPfCIALISltS INtl                                     Heoco Jo.l           -        O1       --                                            10     110.318         4. IS?        -               4 11
SPECIAtlSltS  iiIGA1 UI                               Homo lost                    10                                             -        10      11 2tt                    "         491       *
PEtttitlEt /                                          ttTe Jaw                     O                                              -       ISO       9.1512                  .285               46.285
RATP18 11tt 008004191E8POUR StIiAIRE                pat pa.rttpetnt                1                                                       is      IS. OS?          892                           8u
S%h-total SEKIKAIlL GEStlGtt D  PSIRIRD4ltE                                                                                                                          5.°49   i.1i2                t11.31
sub-tolel 980988*t0N  8 1 1488881                                                                                                                                      889,7?0    6.182              192. 483
C. RiSE Et PtRCt DU STSttRI
EQIPItEtttTn I tUhtitig
808ti8tR                                             Per potone                     2                                                       2    398.81               W 1.SS    I10 -8   J,3m
Jt11tUlt tEGtR                                           Wntte             -        I                                                       I  4, 2Gii06S        16,I4S 1i843
1101010t                                                  Uitnl           2        2        2                  -        -                  a    266.092          8.244         -         -       244
iii1iiSIEU URnitI I                                                                                                                         I  2,206.309           IL           - I             8 t. l
PRltt                                                    UnIt                       I                                                       I    472.1 tI           1 a S                       1.6t1
W110LIRctU                                                Un tI                     I        --                                             I    18t 88           J111          - fi            J111
GitCICltlS                                               WIto                       I                                             -         I      30.314         2.4ti                   -    2, 89
5Ub-Tottl tOUIPttitTI   801/ (0I8R                                                                                                                                  40. it4   1t889 S42, SU
U&hiotal itlSt EN PECE 04U StSItRI                                                                                                                                      40.* 84    1.810 i42,5S9
tatl I TiStRIlT8  COSTS                                                                                                                                                   231 206  14. 023           .249 S29
II. 8081188(11 WSIS$
=...............
8. hI8t0eti18l P0I988818 ElPlIIITURtS
............ ..   ........                          .    . ...                                                             .        .         ...    ...                          * 
1. G9tRTIONt / EtstPEltITt
........... ..............
tttlREIIEit tWSLIlR                                                                                                                                                          I"Slf               2St
t0ti818 t1  9(ICiU(1                                                      -        -        -                 -                  -         -                     2 486   1.4S9           -     3  SS
081801188 0111811(0$                                                                        -92. 38                                                                         147                I .479
8f8l0ft10  081911t8u0                                                                                                                                              I21      t51                  202
8NT801108 080184t880                                                                                                                                               1)2       is          -        0
£^SURt6HCf                                            181tc.l.u                    t        I        I        I         1        8         8     888. 902        2.S28    1.561                4.JSt
tSSETCE                                                t"tr50 2                        ZSe 2.SSO   2 SS*   2.t 5   21SSO   2.550    19.380           27tS        8,44   1.499                  S. t31
consoutiou BV*t&U                                                                                                          S5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~183  81  2.431
S*-ttolsl OPtRI888Ilt / EN8tlfit-                                                                                                                                               -    .
18. 8T7  MA 488             29. 882
5t-ubtlul IllCRttttYIP 098881180 flPEHDIIUt8S
18 611  18. 488              29 812
Ultot aEURttuati COSTS
1,8.1 808168861 COStS                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~88 87  tO. 686  -   29. 182
24t9;W2  24t8 SO9         -     44 91
/b  998C...l.       .t...i......
IC POeW tutu- r0*ospasbl.
/d  POW  fut.o  reottsbf.. 2 -ttlot, pour 2 potsonns pad.nl  to je,
Itr ; 9 'itc§pant4
October 8. 1981 0 44



ANNEX 3-8
Page 5 of 6
REPIu71 IOUE CENtRAFR1CAINE
REt1A8ItIItTIO1 Et DEVELOPPERENT SECTEUR EDUCATION
lable 81 RENFORCENENT CELtULE INFORNAIIOUE
Oelatled Cost rsb)e
(r Cr81
Breakdown of totals Inc1 Cont
IUSS)
Quant ity                                             tocat
-----------    ------    ....  -   __  ....         Excl   Duties    S
Unit          1988 1989 t990 1991 1992 1993 1994 Totat  Unit Cost  for. Eacht  Taxesl   Taxes    Total
-zt::-: :::-::t=::    -= t  :::   zT :   ::-: t:: :=::   ::   rr ':::7= - ::    : :-::::             T  t --: :::-::::
I  INVESTMENT COSTS
*  AMENAGENENT BUREAU
RETOUCHES BUREAU                                 Unite              1               -    -                  1  2.480.475         4,696   5.62            -    9 958
CLtINAtSEURS                                     UnIto             3                   -    -        -      3    401.512         4.508         -              4.508
MO8LIER                                       par poste           3                                        3    793.752         4.508   5.052                9.560
Sthb-Totel AREN*GEftENT BUREAU                                                                                                      13. 711  10 314            24.026
8  NICROINtFOR1t8TIOUE
MICROS                                           U-10te             I    t    -                             2  2.206,309        16.968                   -   16.968
ONOULATEURS                                      Unite              1    I    -    -                 -      2    787.968         6.060                        6. 060
INPRIMANTES                                      Un3te             1    I                 -          -      2    472? 781        3,636        -         -    3.636
LOGICIEtS                                        Unte               I    t    -                             2    630.374         4.848         -              4.848
Sib-totoW  NICROINtFORAT1QUE                                                                                                       31 511                       31.511
C  FORMATION ET CONtSULTAXTS
SPECIALISIES NATIONAUX                        Hi   mcis             t    1    1    I            -    -      4    269. 665             -   4.290          -    4.290
STAIGAIRE NATIONAL                            NoRMM mis           12   12   12   12   12             -    60    117. 672              -  26.435          -   26.435
FORMATION PONCTUELLE NATIONALS                Hamm mots           12   12           -    -    -24    277. 118                         -  28.277          -   28.277
STELIERS /a                                    N     j jours      64   32   32                  -    -   t28        t.373             -     731                 731
Sub-total FORNATION ET CONSULTANTS                                                                                                       - 59. 733              59 733
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                                 45. 223  70 047         -  115. 270
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A  INCREMENTAL OPERATING EXPENDITURES
TOURNITURES BUREAU                       Dotation annuallle       I    I    I    1    1    I t             6    298.352         4,155   2.508                6. 663
Sb-Total INCRERENTAL OPERATING EXPENDITURES                                                                                       4.155   2.508           -    6.663
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                   4 155   2,508           -    6.663
_ ,,   ==      = _ ::::: :::::
total                                                                                                                                   49.378  72.555           -  121.933
/a Pour 8 personnes pendant 4 jours
Octobor 9. 1987  09:44



ANNEX 3-8
Page 6 ',f 6
REPUStIQUE CENtRArRICAIME
REHIABILITATION El DEVELOPPENENT SECIEUR EoUCATtON
tab le 82. RENFORCENENT DES StATISTI UFS
Deta lead Cost table
(FCtAil
Breakdown of totals lr,cl Coot
fuSS)
Quont t y                                             Local
- - - - - - - - - - - - -  .    .... -  -   - -   - - - -  -  - -  -   -*ErcI  Duties   S
Untt       1988  1989 1990  t99t 1992 1993 1994 Total  Unit Cost  For  Ech  Telxesel   'as*          Total
I  lvESTimENT COSTS
A. FORMATION EQtUIPE MATIONAltf
I 8OURSES PERSONNEL CENTRAL
BOURSES StAIISTIQUES                              Nrooe rnus        3           3    -        -             6    630.374        14. 059       -             14.059
vOYAGES                                          Aller/ratou-        I                                -     2  1, 246.695        9.268                       9. 258
Sub-Total BOUJRSES PERSONlEt CENTRAL                                                                                               23.327                  -   23, 327
2. FORMATION PERSONNEL RfGIONAUX
SEMINAIRES NATIONAItX ST&TISTIOUES  /a            Homme jour      210    -   710                      *   420       1,373            -   2.344               2.344
Sub-total FORMATION PERSONNEL REGIONAUX                                                                                                      2. 344             2.344
Sub-total FORMATION EQUIPE NAII7SAtLE                                                                                                 23.327   2.344          -   25.6t1
B. INtERVENTION SPECIALISTES
CONISUJLTANTS INTERNATIONAUX  /b                      ntto  nts ttt I               I               -           3  3.782,244       42. 372                     42. 372
VOYAGES                                              Wller/retour       2    2      2    -    .                 6  1.246. 695      27.933                  -   27.933
EXPfRtS lOCAUX                                       NawuM              1   I    1  2    2    2    -            8    269.66S             -   7.S04              7.804
Sub-tot,l INTERVENTION SPECIALISTES                                                                                                   70. 30S   7.804             78 109
Total INVESTMENt  COSTS                                                                                                                   93. 632  10. 148        -  103.780
Total                                                                                                                                      93. 632  10. 148        -103. 780
/a 35 paersorias pour 6 jours
lb Inforttqua et statistuquas
Octob.r 9. 1987  09-44



- 150 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 1 of 5
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
E1TW' TION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PROJECT COORDINATION
1.        Background.  Following managerial difficulties experienced with
the second education project Cr. 1359-CA (poor personnel management, misuse
of funds, distortion of project objectives, inefficient procurement
methods, lack of appropriate staff, and inordinate delays in replacing
staff vacancies) due, in part, to confusion between MEN directorates on
their respective roles in the implementation of that project, the
Government has decided to create a small but senior level project
management unit to coordinate all aspects of the implementation of the
project. This decision is in line with the revised organizational
structure of MEN, and will resolve the problems apparent in the previous
project. At the same time the Directorate of Projects and Exterior
Relations has been rationalized and reoriented towards planning functions
and the new Project Coordination Unit (PCU) is being created to manage the
implementation of the project.
2.        Objectives.  The main objective of this component is to ensure
adequate institutional and administrative arrangements to successfully
implement the project, while reinforcing and developing the managerial
capacity of MEN. Intermediate objectives include: (i) supporting the
Government's institutional building policy; (ii) placing project management
at a sufficiently high level in MEN's hierarchy to ensure adequate status
to provide inter departmental and inter ministerial coordination;
(iii) integrating the implementation of the project with the MEN's
organizational framework; and (iv) making individual managerial units
responsible for the implementation of the project components directly
related to them.
3.        Approach/strategy.  To this end, the implementation
responsibility for this project would be assumed by the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) with the responsibility for individual project
components and sub-components decentralized to the concerned directorates
and departments of the MEN and MESRES. The Project Coordination Unit would
be attached to the Secretary General of MEN, and would be headed by a full
time national Project Director, assisted by a management team, led by a
Deputy Director (T.A.).
4.        Functions.  With responsibility for overall supervision and
guidance of project implementation, the project director would oversee the
coordination of all project activities, including liaison with the
different units of MEN, other ministries and government services concerned
with the project, and would serve as the direct contact point between the
Government and IDA. More specifically, the PCU would:



- 151 -                     ANNEX 3-9
Page 2 of 5
(a) assist each Directorate in the preparation of annual work
programs and budgets for the implementation of each project
component;
(b) prepare all necessary documentation for the annual review of the
Action Plan made jointly by the Government and IDA, and act as
the secretariat of the Government's review committee;
(c) coordinate all aspects of project implementation with the
relevant Government entities;
(d)  ensure that those responsible for each component carry out their
functions effectively;
(e) supervise the preparation of bidding documents and handle the
procurement of civil works, goods and specialist services in line
with IDA's guidelines;
(f) plan and carry out all procurement functions, and ensure that
goods and services procured under the project are delivered to
their destination;
(g) arrange for the recruitment of personnel and specialists required
by the project;
(h) monitor and administer the specialist service contracts for both
qualitative and quantitative conformity with contract obligations
(short term as well as long term) and training/fellowship
programs (local and abroad);
(i) ensure adequate Government counterpart funding is budgeted and
monitor the satisfactory flow of funds for the project components
(from counterpart and IDA sources);
(j) prepare and maintain all project accounts, following accepted
accounting formats and procedures;
(k) prepare all necessary documents for withdrawal of funds from the
local project accounts (Special Account for IDA financing and
separate account for the counterpart funds) and for submission of
withdrawal application to IDA;
(1) arrange for annual and semi-annual audits of all project accounts
by auditors selected following IDA guidelines and ensure that
such audit reports are forwarded to IDA within six months after
the end of eacn fiscal year;
(m)  keep records, including financial records of the project, and
submit to IDA semi-annually progress reports on project
implementation and a completion repert no later than six months
after completion of the project; and
(n) arrange for the preparation of future projects.



- 152 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 3 of 5
5.        Means.  In order to carry out its responsibilities, the PCU will
be staffed with the following personnel, all adequately qualified and
experienced:
Responsible staff         Status    Functions
(a)  a full time Director      local      project management
(b)  a Deputy Director         foreign   assistant to (a)
(c)  an Administrator          local      financial/contracts management
(d)  an accountant             local      accounting
(e)  support staff             local      (one secretary and one driver)
Additional support staff would be provided on a needs basis by current
civil servants of MEN. In addition, the project would finance the
following specialist services (short term consultants) to assist the PCU in
specific areas:
Profile specialist              Status    Duration (manmonths)
(i) educationalist                  foreign       2   m/m
(ii) procurement specialist          foreign       6   m/m
(iii) financial systems/accounts    foreign         6   m/m
(iv) computer specialist             foreign       2.2 m/m
(v) auditors                        foreign      14   m/m
(vi) review committee members        local        30   m/m
(vii) short term specialists          foreign      18   m/m
(for future project preparation)
Finally, the project makes provision for minor office building repairs and
the necessary office equipment, transport and operating costs for the PCU
during project implementation.
Table 1
Summary of operational responsibility by project component
Project Component                    Operational      Remarks
Responsibility
I   Qualitative Improvement of the System in:
Primary Schooling:
(a) In-service teacher training                      DRPFE       with the CTPF
(b) Improving Learning Conditions
(i) Pedagogical Materials                        INRAP
(ii) Building Rehabilitation/Maintenance          DGAF       with the DCES
(c) Academic and Primary inspectorates Higher    PCU/IA          with SG & DPEF1
Education (University of Bangui):
(d) Library and Science Faculty                    Rectorate



- 153 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 4 of 5
II  Improve Sector Management for a More
Effective Use of Resources in:
the Ministry of National Education:
(a) Resource Management
(i) Personnel Management                         DAP
(ii) Financial and Physical Resources            DGAF        with Cabinet/DCES
(b) Implementation Capacity                          PCIU
Higher Education:
(c) the National Scholership Service                 SAB
(d) University Planning Unit                      Rectorate
CTPF      Commission technique de la planification et de la programmation
de la formation initiale et continue
DAP       Direction de l'administration du personnel
DCES      Direction des construction des equipements scolaires
DGAF      Direction genErale de l'administration et des finances
DPEF1     Direction de l1enseignement prescolaire et fondamental 1
DRPFE     Direction de la recherche pedagogique et de la formation des
enseignants
INRAP     Institut national de la recherche et de l'animation pedagogique
PCU/UCP   Unite de coordination du projet
SAB       Service autonome des bourses
SG        Secrgtariat General
IA        Inspection academique.



- 154 -                                                 ~~~AN~NEX 3-9
"FI811l10   IX651t10111    0011   IS12CIOSO100111 
&A1111:1.  1 8)0011 £00081011 lOcll 005   ISo  Aim
5.laiod Coost fab!o
i001*3
11,0.kOowl, of ToWs .1, O Io
(1119
....... .......... ....                                                       tocal~~~~~~~~~0(0   15.01  5..).., A
Uol~f            I98      184       15       14141    102       141      I0414    101.       13011 Ctai   lot  (wl         16..1        1...        11.
8 584159110301 7095$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....  ....
41.41156111100  110610(11816Ilts
I. 18OAVA30 (1(05  CIVI10?14                                                                                                                        2412     is8            It5la  Is?     20.31$                 30,15%
8085115(                                              Par posol                                                                                    0    39  8?8          4.908           6.492                  41958
"Mo0                                                      01.I.I ,29748                                                                                                  4. its                                 8.718
03131810                                                 l Ie                                                                            .         I    181,98Q          2.4441                                 3,441
lI(P0l0410l                                             11,110                 I                                                        -                12. Ill         .15?41                                 1.7816
08(058595115185                                          Mile.                 I                   -2    411.101                                                         3W 2                                     . 381
5001400 5tol                                             61,600                 I                                                                  I I .M0.1151          S. 1.2S 9823
$wletal Q311811011                                         0,1.9                                              -1                                             0.34         241witS1                                  418to
*3811l..  MNkttll 680601841    110(1 1SA191.11,                                                                                                                                43.2418        29. 438                 81.its
B. 0010041 of l06110041
;8(1050.,tl5(s' I150 'CAlc-------2  4268,9016                                                                                                                               341.6412             -341.54"
VI',,cults1  4 1:S 4                                       011h 1 .t  I                                                            .                      S. lot411.12      23. 990                                233 99*
0051511185s                                               80bicuol                 2                                     2        -         -         4    28.0412           4.182                                  a.182
sqb-IOWo  RIOISS *t 100080418                                                                                                                                                  62.424                                 82. 424
I. .......805.......
910118458                                            game . sa2e                    2            11        17       It       it        %3        84      MAO,38                         17131                  M1.913
810001(08 £040511                                    Rom   no's               It        II       I         12       I?        52                  it  3.182 244    1, 043. 812               -.043,4323
$.h-tlsll U0111 00080158I                                                                                                                                               1. 043.822        1381.9 0?             , 10l2. 190
805191981 1118 I *191 5186855                                                 it $s1    it       12        it       13        it       It        84      2861.085                      11.8841                 11.880
C011511811                                           mam  soft                12        12       12        12       13        12       I,         04     100. "8S                      It.81141                771.88
3.011110 o1 801118                                       11411S18ame                        S         S 4      S1        41       9                   0    I841.80                .         8. 132                 28. 132
4. £55111  5(001110
ItaItStL                                             Noma usie                  I        I         .                                                   .182. 244        22119&                                 27.1704
5591180 / CMIPBIOSII                                 mai    uisl                I        I         I        I         I        I                   8    73.72,44        $6041448                               88.498
8518111L1811 I16S87100 08(14111C                     Nowt data                      2             2I                  .                               3.182.244         04. 144               .                 4, 744
00I(185101   10000l14411o                            NW  wait                   I        I      5        01 I      8 I      8                   2.2  2. 782.244         29 12t                                 78.128
10764(0                                             Al lor/fti..M              4         4        3         2        2         2                  ti  1. 248. 009       04. 43                .                 0. 401
$,*-loW.  £55111 500(100                                                                                                                                                  320, 884                                310.6884
*0051 6000(1                                         NM"  Pois                       I   I         I        I        I         I        I          1L 3."2.244         1012.241S                              103 248
AUDIT S(8011811111   is                              l,    solo                 I        I         1        I        i         I        I          1  2.187.746        1412.248                               102.2348
V0WS4it 61.Io,rato.                                                            2         2        2         2        1         2        2         14    6041.288        32. 982               .                3  412
S.h~~~~~~~~1*l8l £33011                                                                                                       321~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...1 ..........  ..   2.......
0. 41141111
no 01 Olin                                               doo                            II       02        12       12        It                 i2       42AS41        II1, 143                                K11.43
%$ATiotal I 8557                                                                                                                                                            40.19                                  40.41S
$,&1-ToIs1 p(0S08it051   8 10081U000                                                                                                                                        1.831 .88us      322. 4141             1,94154.82
fA 019541                                              0      o00l                                           18        .                  .        2*    820.374          14.488                                 24.488
3   01O1                                               11./.le                                                I        .                                1248,8419          4.831                                  483an
8.A.lol1 1000615w                                                                                                                                                            2.49                                   241.309
0251PARA611ll 00058580"El                                                                                                                                                                             ......   .117448.  14122. 441
7,1.1101015(0   MT$1                                                                                                                                                        1. 053 907       340.4251221.42
It  111  884110784 COSTS    805118810
(10110481138  15888p'.ol2                                                                  41        2        4         2        2         0        14     31 333 0ie        . 22          4.00                   14.0211
831385008115001148                                       00                       I         I                 II                           I               30.2               "I.24         .014                   8.14
(418l1t0i PK)OW1111808                                                                                                                                                        is?-..    1    209                     lit
6810388011       ot       t"As                           e01onsm,                          3 2       3        2                       2             14    219.14123        4:1.9           91.041                 19.4Sit
CO02OM81lU  18810(0                                       1ll?00             2. I08    7.100   2.7Too   1.1?00   2. 741   2.7841   2.2041    181.9009           its        12 123          2.018                  le. 14811
55u80510fts 0080*0                                  0.0011.,  w-wesI              I        I         1        1 I           I                        1    248.4131         41.010          2. 324                 5. 420
00188185t8110   I Ut I 181182 I (IC I               Omoatto Ion ..,Sel I          I         I        I             I             I                         4911.344        8. 141          4.101                  12,8Ads
*  5111800(1 0Noolm 0.P11 1111   lklut                                                                                                                                         1 3t,"
81t8(1818t9                                            Now   00i0                it       is        12       12        it       It        II        0.4    Ill1.341       23.449          13.99W37. 003
(060101541 / 5(8881(250                                 0OAI 0020                12       1          I        7        5        It       12         84      441.129        9 7119          9.049                     tot11
t9bhfletA   Rf8$55u(i. 1 85803                                                                                                                                                33.214          MM. *                  43. 412
1,.501s      810  (OSli lCost                                                                                                                                                     $41.218         48 190                 193. 018
to0al                                                                                                                                                                           2.04.1.78         201. 219          .  3444 0110
beao  9. 581  fit  44



- 155 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 1 of 6
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
1.        Basis of Cost Estimates.  Project costs are based on March 1987
prices, updated to reflect a change in the exchange rate from FCFA 314 =
US$1 at appraisal in March/April 1987, to FCFA 305 = US$1 at negotiations
(October 198/). Cost estimates for primary school classroom
rehabilitation/construction are based on the experience of similar
construction completed in 1987 under the previous project and the
development of a prototype of a low-cost classroom using local materials
and labor. Construction cost estimates are based on recent tenders for
similar types of construction with adjustment for regional cost
differences. The average cost per month of internationally recruited
specialist services is estimated at US$12,000 for long-term services and
includes: salary, fees, overhead and subsistence. Unit costs for
international consultants are based on recent proposals from the
International Labor Organization. Internationally recruited volunteer
specialists have been costed at US$900 per manmonth. Scholarships abroad
are costed at US$2,000 per manmonth, based on standards used under UNDP
projects. The cost of locally recruited specialists and consultants,
together with the costing of locally arranged seminars are based on recent
contracts awarded during project preparation (January-May 1987).
2.        Foreign Excnante Component.  The estimated foreign exchange
component of the project is US$11.9 million (572 of the total project
cost), and is the result of the following mission estimated foreign
exchange percentages for the individual categories of expenditure:
Civil workst
Civil works contract                           502
School construction (IDA)                      602
Community inputs (APE) and school
director housing (Government)                   02
Furniture                                        502
Equipment                                       1001
Pedagogical materials and supplies              1002
International specialists                       1002
Local/national specialists                        02
Incremental operating costs                      602
3.        Customs. Duties and Taxes.  Project cost estimates do not include
duties or taxes. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that the
project would be exempt from taxes and duties.
4.        Contingenac  Allowances.  Project cost estimates include physical
contingencies oft (a) 102 for the civil works, furniture, equipment, and
pedagogical materials and supplies; and (b) 52 for specialist services,
training expenditures and incremental operating expenditures. Allowances
for annual price escalations are as follows:



- 156 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 2 of 6
Projected Annual Price Escalation Rates
1988   1989   1990    1991   1992   1993   1994
Foreign Costs      5.6%   5.4%  -0.3%    1.3%   1.3%   1.3%   1.3%
Local Costs       -1.4%  -0.6%   4.1%    4.0%   4.0%   4.0%   4.0%
At these rates total physical contingencies are estimated at US$1.38
million (6.6% of total project costs) and price contingencies at US$1.58
million (7.6% of total project costs).
5.        Project Cost and Financing Plan.  Table 1 shows the project cost
by category of expenditure and project component. Table 2 shows project
cost by component; Table 3 the project cost by category of expenditure, and
Table 4 shows the financing plan by component.



Table I                                                                                       ANNEX 3-10
Page 3 of 6
£611 I0681166 6661 it~:~vt 66 $711167                       I06829   WICItIO  El V110SWICIa nOS 6187088
6E688I11111 10NW18h6 1       smiluw                                           8611068169atto  siJ8II            .....1....................
OplaIlIt 6*iff86   668100#911   ECCLES PI maints    16796C1;66S            swIll         P661S66L       uwrTSIQUES       966467        66S 8086',E         8*1100            total         i        a
11tv661618vl costs
. ...... ...h...
166181111 61816866                                      Its2 763, 128                  -       II 31.31117         Sal.64.1tI                    4.8set. I2    9.604.460c         7. 4. .228              -      30. 311. 9111  I  0   27.621 . I"8
£m:69r1 (10861                                                              82. 693, 728                                  .                                                                               -      82.68S2 172  16 0   6e 268. 327
£908   09128118  j                                                          3fl l04, M.9.-                                                                                                                       37,. 106.79   160    2 2. 110. 636
1014993I9                      .                      238 48997~          ~        ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   -.                                                                268.496.71 I1C0 6 22.6489927
S.6 ?*set 11lII$1t11II0                                     128. 742. 325    I 442.416.194        2.31.21.77       88.647  ITI                      4.661 722    8 604 460            7.064.238                   1.7T12. 771.887   16 0  11 I. 77. 198
6  moll It                                                    2 648. f41       287. 807 742         Z $78, 6t2       S.9"3. 141     8 164. Its      3.1t78. 008    P. 361. 288        2.2764. 132             .     4 M 3 1780    10.o,0   41. 231. 761
'it" 116t9                                ti.493. 1I .321.416                26. 167,377      164.836.91                  .                      S.6862. 077   Is,.36.61  ~ "I.6 64 07                           t 7s.11t.112  to6    II 679.1t2
I6176£611017                                              3 181 676           4 667.471                          19. 184. J13   4 067.43 £      M11292.7893    2. S21. 46         S.38M  179     4.09?. 421       84,776 766   1860    5. 477. 027
661119ftl61 111118A1                      22.662.680    48 04S. 840           2.847 286         2. 0t1 1.41     46.6VI1.8#21    2.821.8734       1. 204. 826    2*7712I24         S. 633. 230    7 21£ 367       t37, 21. 013  100   12'. 792 10
8,.O-Io;aI 1.9.11968661                      22. S16. 732    97,821T. 22£       38.6t7. 167      f07.SS0.035        SS6t. 10898     6,S.888 "S      t. 3M.6"6   20. 62 1.83          Is. 08.480      6. 313. 776    372. 466.3`0  106   27. 248.840
6 68168*1* P608200166
6681171   MAMME01016                                    273.9. 6"  8 as.                                        47.276.60                ...                                                                     426 677 711   16 0   42 647. 372
117$11111611 PI1*101106181  33.862.828                   ~~~~~~~~28,227.666                                                           I  239                                           .      68297. 081   to..6    6.82M. 708
U6.101.l18E1 pufllP608001611                 32963. in    373.88".688           38. 2127 S6U                       47. 278.0(Tso                      229. SS                                 .                     4*8. I38. 778   10 0   48.9Sit 678
988tl6619169 161186811I668                96.822. $18    149,287.6390        28 06662         . 3.    18.669.6611                              86.268.328  686.396.8 20          66.486.666       1736. ISO     683.644.282    960   42.962.238
$9818IStlESi  688166662                   to. 178, St?    2. 824. 13£       Is. 20. 742         2.6078.642                        828.23*       to,.40t .66    82.649.2761       13.346.564               .      18I. I136. 984    9 0    7.9.  928 S
616601  66666184679                                                          64 947 464                  .                                                             .                                           4. 642. 484    8 0    3. 232. 272
8191811   6811668113         .              .        119. 633. 320    ~~~~~~~~~.     ......  ..     .. ......   ...................-                                ....  .            ....    - .  .     ...0..20 8   6... 1. 168..
ISA4 lot.1 StiBItF 5PEC1611611               Si,.El,439    148.21 .1IRS        7229 1146.66        2.6029.6$42               .     19.406. 161    88.674. 287  Mo0.008. 161         72.866o.6o0     17.2302.1I6S    1.17M494. 14    S. 0    U98.87.177
IQ   took A0  1 6668816                   23.299. 260    42. 73. 696         is.766.3621                 -      It.832.288    22 282. 873       P 16732. £18   18. 064,223                 .                     19. 962. 408    93 a    3.88. 130
16868116  8016:8                         678. M27.469       SOT.8"1          8.694. 182         7.(104.44?          ITS.7T24    1. 662. 708     S.62on, I I.                                                    762.872.406      9. 0   28. 143. 670
1.-El4  181*l08                        71.68M  7`60    42.248.908         24. :20.874         7.104.447         17.98.6 M   24.216.218      28.9562.8$26    16.094. 223                 .                     62638614, 80      0   43. 141.781
lo0l1691116761tu  COSTS                        829.274.666   712.861. 483       2. 197.077. "S3      140. 728,063     229. 762. 748    SS. W4. 790    12 1, 8s8. 476  610. 710. 722       28. 72687    2.. 618. 838   S. 028 998228     a 6  480.768.328
If 891018161 COIST
*  10811166666167                7~~~~~~~4. 207IN  to. 020 281      88SC0..871       14.03M. S13        13. 923. 114   3.44:. 19'      9. 11.411   38.083.71 ?I0s. 1(9. 9 1            20. 884.8St1     M8.838.818s    9 9   18.891.4686
10181 6168916  10918                         26.39 "a1       16.6282781         8t8D.660l87      194.089.87M        1.33. M   I14  3.441 7664       S.71l. 411   26.092.ITS         89. I M cis    26. Sea.871      366.629.916      86    Is.491.4"S
1o181 68111161 C0S1S                             6.82.82.32£   763.886.764       2.223.676e.9S"       294. 800.S"      246.768.662    SO. S80.944    13 1.9S".8.61  046.764.438         190, 44s,448    '4 S00. 009   S.478s.828.78      7 5  620.276.821
mr.s.cot tOcwtl..g6i@tt                       49.9.1S",       66.3&24.797?      206. 294. 28       21.120.680        23. 364,28      2. 97O.8el      7. 999.8 SU 23.988.88 SOO          8. 819M    2.8540.110        420.276.621      0 6             6
P, ,"* rool.-'g4o                              M2 3.88.400    48.286.9956       147.7122.6 M       3 4. 461.707     -23.646.242    47.262.262      -I2.28'. 188I to0.008,676         42. I12. 063     7.6236.7It8    206.730.661      S 9   11.408.8to
1o1*l 98411' 1011$                               123.866.1'786    81. 981.6      2.977.6Sll606. 688  340.98W.6"8       249. 246. 448    99. , 9713    127, 148.200  790, S.73899        158.554.698     U 94.68. lot  6. 047.629S.653    I I 43t. US,.731
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                          -..1               .I..          ............I...    ..I....   .  .....  -1-                                                    -      -....
ro,o'g~, f.ct.eoqe                           6.8.244   700.1.630              t. 166. 130.21   2    1A. 369. 977    187. 128.448    49.268.714      66.419.411  059.808.381          IIs.6$14.494    46.088.444   2.447,791. 476      7 2  247. 488, 68
..                 . .. . . . . .                                                              . . . ..  . .   _   . . .  . . .. . . .  .. . . . .  .. . . . ..  ..0.    ...6.     . .. .  . ..44.    ..         ..    . . . .



Table 2                                                            ANNEX 3-10
Page 4 of 6
REPIIBI IQUE CENtRArRICAINE
REMARI[ITAITON El DEY(topprof"t SECTEUR EDUC81102
PROJECT COCA S0191*RY
(feTal                                                           IUSSI
I Total                                                     I Total
~  foreign  gasei                                          Iforeigt   Base
Local          Fo~vign           total       Exchange   rosts        Local       Foreign.    Total        Esitahnge   Costs
4., ARELIODRATION QUALItTATIVE CDU SYSTERtE
1ENSEIGNEIENT EOWCAKNENAI
A11111113PA110110 QUALITE MAITRES                        ~~698. 423. 722    155. 159. 5 14    853. 583. 236     is       l6   2.289.214       508. 720   2. 798. 634         i8       16
NATERiIL PED*GOGiQUE                                                          72, 234. 529    692. 752. 236    763. 946. 764       91        14     236. 635   2. 268. 040   2.504.875          91       14
REHAS11,11ATION ET ENTRETIfN DrES ECOLES PRI1NAIRES                        t,.259. 783. 992    964. 094. 538  2. 223. 878. 530     43       41   4. 130. 439   3. 160. 966   7.291.40S          43       41
SOUTIE." OECENITRALJSATIDN INSPECTIONS                                        St 908. 128    712.892,75$    294.800.886            72        5      268. 551      698,009      966.560          72        5
Sub-total EIISEIGTEFEKEU  F0NDAItENTAL                                        2. 112. 350. 370  2.023. 899. 045  4. 136. 249. 415      49       76   S.9(25. 739   6. 635. 735  13. 561.  7        49       76
2  LINIVERSItIE DE SIUGUI                                                        57, 356. 411    192.349. 391    249. 705. 862         77        5      188.054      630.654       818.708          77        5
Sub-ilotl AIIELIORAtiONi QUALITATIVE DU SYSIFIE                                  2.1l69. 70b. 841  7. 216. 248. 436  4. 3qb.qSS 277       51       4t1   7. 113. 793   7. 266. 388  14. 360. 181       SIt      81
8 ANEEIORATION ATFECTATtON ET U111.1SATIOII DES RESSOLURC[S
I RitiNSTERE DE L EDUCAtION NATIONALE
GfSt]CN PERSONNEL                                         ~~~~~~~~~~6. 126. 220  53. 461 324  59. 589. 544      90        1      20. 086      I75. 290      195. 376        90 
RESSOURCES FINANCIERES El PHT:IQUES                                           27. 054. 792    t 04. 5 15. 039    131. 569. 831     79        2       88. 704      347 672      431. 376         79        2
UNITE COORDINATION PROJET                                                    113 C4 03. 444    532. 960. 993    646. 764. 438      82        12     373. 126   1. 747.413   2. 120. 539         82       I?
Sub lotal NIIIIStERE DE I EDUC8711O  NA1ILTNALE                                 146. 984 457    690. 939. 356    837.923.613           82       15      481.916   2.265.375   2.747 291            82        Is
2. ENSEIGNERE10T SUPERIEUJR
SERVICE AUTONONE DES BOURSES                                                  38. 226. 4 16    112. 222. 030    IS0. 446. 446      75        3      125. 333      367 941      493. 274         75        3
CELLULE PLANIFICATION UKIVERSITIE BANGUt                                       8.237.040      36. 263. 569     44.500,609          81         I      27,007       114.897      145.904          81       I1
Sub-Total ENSEIGNENENT SUPERIEUR                                                 46. 463. 456    148. 485.99    194. 949. 055          76        4      152. 339     486. 838     639. 277          76        4             VI
Sub-Total ANELIORATION AFFECTATION El UTILiSAIION DES RFSSOLIRCTS                   193.447.913    839.424 956  l. 032. 872. 868          81        19     634.255   2.752.213   3.386.468             81       19 
Total BASELINEf COSTS                                                              2. 363. 154. 754  3. 055, 673. 392  S. 4 18.828. 145     56       100   7.748.048  10. 018. 601  17. 766. 650         56      100
Phusical Contingencies                                                             tSO. 414. 559    739. 862. 262    420. 276. 821       57        8      591. 523      786. 434   2. 377. 957        57        8
Pi-ice Cont onganc¶es                                                              56. 515. 147    152. 215.5S25    208.730.661          73        4      496.618   I. 087. 218   1. 583. 836         69        9
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                2.600.084. 4S5  3. 447. 751.17 8  6. 047. 835.633        57      t122   8.836.18 IS t2,892. 253  20. 728. 443         57      11?
October 9. 1987 09 44



Table 3                                                                             ANNEX 3-10
Page 5 of 6
RE PUSI Iour crNiRAVric8iNE
811A4611lIAt1ON Et OEVELOPPER*E'41 SFCTFUR ED1ICA11010
SUMIMARY ACC0UIN15 COSt SEINNARI
(FCFA)                                         (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~USS)
3 total                                                   It Total
e o~q    ase                                         IFo.'e'qo  Bass
local                           T otal      Exchage   Costs         tocal       fo,etg~      Totml      f.charge   Costs
I  IVESTMENT COSTS
A CONSIRtICIION
COUTRATS GENERAUX                        133.577. 191    136,734.802    270.311.993           51        5      437.958      448.311      886.269         51        5
COIITRATS ECOLES                        348.202.823    534. 650. 905    882, 853. 728         61       1I   1. 141. 649   1, 752,954   2. 894.602        61       M6
APPORT CONNUNAUJTAIRZ'                   321.106. 295                     321. 106. 295                 6   1. 052.8$08            -    . 052. 8OB8                6
IOG6MN!TS                               238.499.571                 -    238.499.571                    4      781.966                   781. 966                  4
5tt-tolal CtMSIRUJCTION                   I.041. 385.8no    671. 385. 707  1,7 12. 77 1.587       39       32   3.414.380   2.201.265   5. 615. 645          39       32
B  NoSlILUR                                 203.750.539    208.566.967    412.117.508             Si        8     65&035       683.826   1. 351.861          Si        8
C tOUIPENENI
vEincuIEs                                                179. 797. I119    1 79. 797. 11      100to     3                   S 89.499     589. 499        100       3
INVORTIIAIOE                                       -      54. 770. 266    54. 770. 266       too        I                   179. 575     179, 575       bc0        I
COUIPEINNT GENERAL                                        W 3. 921. 013    137. 921. 013      t0o       3                   452.200      452.200         too        3
Sub-Total EOIUIPENENI                                       372. 488. 398    372. 488. 398       100       7T                 1, 221. 273   1,2721. 273     100        7
0. N*TERIAL PEOAGOGI1IIE
MINIMEE  PEDA600SOUES                               -    420.873.718    420.873.718           100      8a                 1. 379, 914   1. 379. 914      100        8
FOURNITUStS PEOAAG19IUES                            -     68.257.057       68. 257.057        too        1                  223.794      223,794         100        1
Sub-Total UtATERIAL PEO*GGIQIUE                        .    489. 130. 775    489. 130. 775       too        9                1 . 603. 707   1.8603. 707     100        9
E. SERVICE SPECIALISTES
SPECIAL ISlES IUTERNATICNIIAPS                           853. 644. 782    853. 644. 782       t00      16             - 2. 798,835   2. 798. 835         100      I6sj
SPECEALISTES 3*7109891                   151.138.584                      Is 1. 138.5Sea                3      495.S36                   495.S36                   3                                               '
EXPERTS VOLONIAIRES                                       64.8$47. 464     64.6$47. 464       100        I                  211,959      211.959         100        I
EXPERTS UATKOWSW                         110. 023. 320              -    110.023.320                    2      360.732                   360.732                   2
Sub-lotall SERVICE SPECIAL ISlES            261. 16 1. 90   9*8. 292. 245  I. 179. 454. 149       78       22     856. 269   3. 010. 794   3. 867. 063       78       22
P. F033*710
f01*1IJOU A   ETRAISGER                             .    159. 963. 40     159.963.405         100       3             -     524.470o    524. 470         too       3
FOURTICSI tOCALE                         702.872.409                      702.872.409                  13   2. 301.50O             -   2.304.500                  13
Sib-Total F083*110                          702.872. 409     158.963. 405    862.3M. 814          Is       16   2. 304.500     524.470   2.828.970           19       16
Total IRVESTRENT COSTS                       2, 20. 170. 731t  2.819.827.498  5,028. 998.,229        Ss       93   7. 243. 183   9.245.336  *6. 488. 519        56       93
Physi4cal Ccnit ngpiletot                   172. 715. 358    228. 0899.967    400. 785. 325       S7        7     566. 280     747. 770   1, 314. 050        57        7
Pr ice CCIIIiegaeciet                        50.IS 15.6       91, 538.274    147. 690. 86         66        3     4912.557     991. 391   1.483.948          67        8
total INCLuoinG 6071INGENCIES                2.432.038.675  3. 145.435.740  5. 577. 474.414          56      103   8.302.019  10.984,497  19. 286. 517          57      109
A. VONCIIOXIIUIENI                         153.294.022    235.84S.894l    389.829.916            60        7     504.86"      773.265   1.278. 131          s0        7
.-- - - -        - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - . . . . .     . ..      - - - - - - - - - - - - -      ---p - -   - - -
Total RECURARENT COSTS                          153. 984. 022    235. 845. 894    389.829.916        so        7      504. 866     773. 265   1, 278. 131       60        7
Physical Covittigencies                       7. 699. 201     II. 792. 295    19. 491. 496        60        0      25.243       38.663        63.907         60        0
Price Conit lgancles                          5.362.557       54. 677. 250    61.039.607          90        1       4,061       95,827        99,858         96        1
total EWCLUOIISG CONTINGENCtES                  168.045.780    302.315.439    470.361.219            64        9     534. 170      907.756   1.441.926          63        8
Total BASELINE COSTS                          2. 363. 154. 754  3.055.673.392  5. 4 8.828. 145        so      100   7.748.048  10.018. 601  17. 766. 650         56      100
PhysIcal ConEtInganctes                      180. 414. 559    239. 862. 262    420. 276. 821       57        8     591. 523      786. 434   1.377.957         57        8
Price Conltngr.wctea                          56. 515. 143    152. 215.525    208. 730. 667        73        4     496.618   1. 087.218   1, 583.8$36         69        9
Total PROJECT COSTS                           2.800.084.455  3. 44. 751t. 178  6. 047. 835. 633       57      112   8.836. 189  It.892.253  20. 728.443          57      117
October 9. tg87 09: 44



ANNEX 3-10
Page 6 of 6
REPUIlSlQUE CEWt¶RAIFIL6IWE
RtHA31ti T1t10t El DEVEtOPPE^ENt SECTEUR FDUCA7101O
Viftancing Pls" by Project Components
(US$)
PROCGR#AN Ot
ASSOCIAIO N      OEVELOPPE'EN6T
ittERUIIONALE Ot   0F5 NATIONIS          APPORT
DEVEtOPPEM6NI        LUtlES        COUWIIAUTAIRE   EtAT CERAFRICtAIM            total
-    ------  ---- -  -------   - ----  - -----*- -  ...............  Local I Ercl  Out-es    a
out   It  S          ot                oS t t    S                  I S     iount      I    For  Etch         loxes)       Taxes
A  AitEtOURItiO  QUlAW1lVE Do SYSTEI6E=:
I  fitSEIGtERENtt FOltDStNtAt
MELIORATIOi  ODt.1TE 1 A1TRFS                                            3. 131.29    99                                  -        27.030       1    3.160.32t   15        591.382      2. 568 939s
NATERIEt PEOAGOGIOUE                                                       2.950.8i2  100                                             1. 175    0    2.961.987   14    2.897.428           264. 559
R8N1 IL8T1ATIO  Et EfTURETl[E DES (COLES PRIPIAIRES                        6.215.561   72    143,831   2   1.234.450  14           985.225    tt    8.579.067   41    3,827. 576         4.751. 491
SOUTIEN PECENTRAtLSSATION ItSPECtION3S                                       953.559   85                -             -            170. 143    s     1.1 23 701    5       827,586        296116 
Sb-Total ENsEIGN!EtN(T FOltDAENTAL                                          t3 253.223   84    t43.831   t   1.234.450   8         1, 93. 53      8   Is 825. 077   76    7,943.971        7,e1. t;os
2. UUIVERSITIE DE SAGUI                                                         979.595   98             -   -                -         15.530      2       995.125    s        747.849        247.276
St-Tbotat AELIORATION QSUAEITAtIVE DU SYSTEtE                                   t4.232.818   85    143.831   t   t1234,450   7         1.209. 1t2     7   16.820.202   81    8,69l.821         8. 28,381
8. ANELIRAIIOU AhFECTATIONt ET UTLISAOTIO  KES RESSOwRCES
1.  INIWSTERE DE 1. EDUCATION NATlIONAtE
GESTION PERSONNEL                                                            218.932   98            -   -             -   -          3.864      2      222.795              197, 335        2s5.460
RESSOURCES fIUUCIERES ft PHYSIQUES                                           489.456   98            -   -             -   -         10. 748     2      500.204    2        392. 993        107 211          -
UNItIE COVitMIA11IDN PR9tt3)E                                              2.405.079   98            -                 -             39 920      2    2.444.999    12    2.047.783          397. 215
S%k-Total PINISTERE DE L EDUCATION NAIIONALE                                  3.113.467   98             -                              54.531      2    3.t67,998    is    2.t638,111         529.8S7
2  ENSEIGNENENT SUPERIEUR
SERVICE A lOIOtNE DES 8WUtSES                                                515. it   90 s                                          56. 535    to      572. 246    3       423.579         148. 667          -
CELLttE PLAUIFICAlONI UUIVERSItIE BANGII                                     144. 677   86                                           23.320    14        167.997    i        38X 742         29. 255         -
S%O-otoal ENSEIGNENE3I SUPERIEUR                                                6S0.288   89                                            79,955    It        740. 243    4       562. 321       T77.922           -
Svb-Total AMELIORATION AFTECTATtOl ET UTILIS4IIOW DES RESSOURCES                 3.773.755   97             -                              1 -  134. 48  3    3.908.241   19    3.200.432         707.809
Total Disbursmnt                                                                   18. 006. 573   87    143.;3t   t   1,234.450   6        1. 343. 589    6   20. 728. 443  100   11.892,253      8.836.189
Oct.br 9. 1987  09 44



- 161 -                         ANNEX 3-11
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF RECURRENT EXPENDITURES AND OF COST SAVINGS
GENERATED BY THE PROJECT
1.        The table below provides estimates of (a) the incremental
recurrent expenditures, and (b) the cost savings generated by the project.
The assumptions behind these calculations are explained in the notes to the
table. The estimates of incremental expenditures reflect the likely effect
of the project on the Government recurrent budget and are due to: project
related operating expenses (cofinanced by IDA and Government); the
completion of the in-service training program for primary teachers; the
salary cost of the teachers required for the additional classrooms built by
the project; the salary effects of the "concours professionnel" for primary
teachers; primary level textbook replacement after 3.5 years; the continued
operation of the school inspectorates; the preventive maintenance costs for
the buildings constructed by the project; and the effects of a reduction in
the average class size. Estimates of cost savings are more uncertain and
are likely to underestimate the beneficial effects of the project since
they do not include difficult quantifiable effects such as the impact of
improved institutional capabilities on the cost-effectiveness of resource
use, the impact of better trained teachers and improved availability,
relevance and quality of textbooks on internal efficiency of primary
education, and the effects of increased contributions by local communities
to school construction made possible by the development of low-cost
construction techniques based on locally available materials.
Nevertheless, the estimate is based on the effects of: the purge of the
scholarship lists; the planned reduction in the scholarship budget; the
effects of the staffing plan (redeployment, redundancies and retirements);
and the planned increase in the number of hours taught by teachers.
2.        The estimates of cost savings assume an annual enrollment growth
rate of 3%. This equals the projected growth in the school-age population
over the period considered and would imply maintaining the primary school
gross enrollment ratio close to its 1987 level (78%). The estimates show
that the savings resulting from the measures included in the project are
likely to substantially exceed the recurrent expenditures generated,
especially when the project is fully developed.



- 162 -                                ANNEX 3-11
Page 2 of 2
Estimates of Annual Incremental Recurrent Expenditures and
Annual Cost Savings Generated by the Project
(millions FCFA)
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994   1995
1. Incremontal Expenditures
(a) IDA/Government cofinanced
Project Operating Costs   67        81       84      80      88       so      11     -
(b) In-service training of
remaining staff I/          -        -        -       -       -      140     142    144
(c) Staff for additional
classrooms g/               -       20       41      81      82       98      98     98
(d) Concours profes-
sionelloa !                 -        -        -       6       9       14      18     22
(e) Textbook replacement 4/     -        -        -       -       -      108     114    120
(f) Operation of Inspec-
torates !/                   -       -                                 -      1s     18
(9) Building maintenance t/     -        -        6      15      22       82      42     43
(h) Reduction in class
size y/                     -        68     106     168     229      311     402    518
Sub-total                   67      139     215     827     425      787     840    958
2. Cost Savings
(a) Purae of Scholarships
in Higher Education !/     87       -         -       -       -        -       -      -
(b) Reduction In scholar-
ship budget !/             so      204      809     394     447      508     603    603
(c) Staff reductions, ro-
deployment W               48      279      885     420     507      687     887    747
(d) Staff hours
increasod Li/               0     126       244     822     426      688     697    860
Sub-total                 171      808      888    1136    1880    18653    1887   2110
Net savings (2-1)         114      469      673     809     955      866    1027   1164
1/   In-service training for the remaining staff after the completion of the project financed
in-servico program.
2/ Based on the project clacsroom rehabilitation program; one teacher/class; recruitment at
current average salary lovels; salary freozo continued.
V/  Re-introduction of the professional exam from 1991 onwards for a maximum of 16
teachers/year.
j/   Second dotation of textbooks and teachers' matorial for primary schools.
!J   Continued oporation after completion of project funding.
6/   Annual maintenanco coat Is 2X of the construction costs from the third year of building
life onwards.
St   Class sizo reduced from 62 to 66 over tho next 7 years.
!J   Results of excluding fraud and double counting.
2/   Cumulative offect of scholarship budgot reductions.
LO/ Cumulative offect of staffing plan: reductions, rodoploynont, etc.
LI/ Staff hours lncroased from an average of 23.1 hro/week to 7 hra/week (17X Increase).



ANN= 3-12
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENWATION SCHEDULE
COMPONENTS                                    1987       1989          1999          1990          1991           1992          1993          1994
tJASONDtJFNAJJASONDWJFMA"JJASOND:JFMAMJJASOND:JFMAMJJASOND:JFRAMJJASOND:JFNAMJJASOND:JFMAMJJASOND:
1. QUALITATIVE IMPROVEMENT OF EDUCATION               :
(a) Prioary teacher isprovesent
-Equipeent                            :    PP:BBOItI  -I-1:--I- - 11 1---  ---- IIIII
-Pedagogical supplies                      PPZPPPBBBOIII-- ------- I ---          III     ------I       ------IIII
-Foretgn specialists                                         ------lII--I ------------ ------lXXX-I
-Local specialists                    i     PPPXII-:-IXS-I:X -                           I X -X:-I
-Foreign training                      PPPBDB:o -------YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
-Local training                       :PPPPpp:pppppppPY-Y:-Y-Y-YyrYy-y:-Y-Y-Yyyyy-y:-Y-Y-YyYyy-Y:-Y-Y-Yyy.f-y:yyyyyy
(b) Pedagogical materials
-Storage rehabilitation                  PPPPIBBBOO-lII--- llI----- 1111:111 -----111I----- 1111:111----- 1111:111
-Furniture                                 PP P-PBBBOO-II- -II
-Equipsent/Vehiclas                        PP:P-PBBBOOIIII:..  l11111111 111111111--- :-1--------- :-I
-Book purchase                        :PPPPP8 POOBBBOOIIIIluII11                                                     1
-Foreign specialists                    PPPPP-:-11---111---:--XXI---K--- i--III---I---1III--II--X-l IIX--II--I-I:-S-I
-Local specialists                            i       x---- --XS----:---III---x---:xxII-xxx-xxX:Ixx-Ixx-xXX:-x
-Foreign training                             I  YYYYYyYYYY:YYYYYYyYYYYY:YYYYY                                                            :                      -
-Local training                                  Y ---y---Y-!--Y---y---Y-:--y---y---Y-:--Y---Y---Y-0--Y---Y
-Incremental operating costs                   I---1---1---l1---1---1---h1---1- ----  1---I---I--- :---I---1--- 1---I---I--- 1---I---1
(c) Building rehabilitation                :         :
-Rehabilitation: Phase I               PPPPPB:BBOIIIIIIIII :IIIIIIIIIIII  liiililI
-Rehabilitation: Phase 2                                                  :PPPPPPPBBOOIIIIIIIIIIJilltIlilililil lII ltIllI
-Preventive laintenances Phase I   lPPPPPP PPPPPPPPPPPB BBOIIIIIIII tilllIlillI---l---I--- :I--I-------- 1-----I---:----I---l
-Preventive Maintenanco: Phase 2              1PPPPPPPPPPPBBBOIIIIIIII-lIIIIIIlIIl:I ---I---I
-Furniture                            PPPPPPBB:011111---- 11111111---- III1III---- IIIIIIIIBBIB IIIIIIIII
-Equipoent/Vehicl*s                   :PPPPPB:BBOI 11111111: -      ---        IIIIII---                ------------- III
-Pedagogical supplies                 :PPPP108:53011111---- :11111111---- :IIIIII----:1IIII       BBB:lIIIIIIII
-Foreign specialists                  *        YYYYY------ YYY--------- YYYYYY------ YYY--------- YY
-Local specialists                             I1IN1hIII IIIIXIIIXXIIIXXuIIIIIII IIIIXIIIII IIXIISXIIIIIII1111
-Foreign training                               YYYYYYYYYYiYYYYYYy                                                   I
-Local training                                   YYYYYYYYY YYYYYYYYYYYYIYYYYYYYYYYY YYYYYYYYYYYY YYYYYYYYYYYY
-Incremental operating costs                   1---1---1--- 1---1---1---:1---1---1---:1---1---1---:1---1---1--- I---1------ :1---I---I
10) Acadeac and primary inspectorates
-Ninor civil works                       PPPP:BBOOIIIIIIII:
-Furniture                            :  PPPP:9BOOIIIIIIII:
-Equipsent/Vehicles                      PPPB: BOOIIIIIIII--------III: --------IIIP:BB00IIIIIII:
-Local specialists                       PPPP:-IIIx---X--- :----------- :-------- --------X 
-Local training                       :  PPPP!PPPPPPPPY--- --------Y--- --------y--- --------Y--- --------Y
-Incremental operating costs                   1 ---1---1---1---1---1---:1---1---1---:1---1---1---:1---1---1--- 1--I---I--- I---I----I
(el University library and
sckence faculty
-Civil works                           PPPPPP:BBOOIIIIIIII 11111
-Furniture                                PPP:BBOOIIIIII



ANN        3-12
Page 2 of 2
-Equ3paent                                PPP 8BODlll11111111111 lllllllll
-Rooks                                :PPPPB8UUDOltl ------   -liI----  - ilI
-Foreign training                                       yyyIyvyyYYYYIyyy:yyyYIYYYYYYYnYYyyyy                     
-Local traintng                                    YYYYYyyyyyYYYYYYYYYYYYyrttrYYY
-Increoental operating costs                                     I---
i INPROVED "ANA6E"ENT.lESOURCE USE
(a) Personnel nanagesent
-Furniture                            :   PPP:9DDBIIII
-Equipment                                PPP:SSDOlllul
-Foreign special3sts                          : -X-X-X-I- X-X-I-I-I-I-:X-l-l-X
-Local specialists                             i-S-I-I-I- X-X-x-X;C
-Foreign training                             :YYYYYYYYYYYY  YtYYYYYYY:
-Local training                              Ya yyyyyyyyy Yyyyyyy
-lncreaental operating costs                   t     -                      ---l----- I
tb) Financial and physical
resource  sn.agement
-Minor civil works                    : PPPPDISOOIIIIIIIIIIIII::   
-Furniture                                  P%PB88ODDllltIliltl
-EquipoentlVehicles                         P:PBB00111111:111111111111:11::I
-Pedagogical supplaes                                         1111
-Foreign specialists                           l                                                                     a I--
-Local specialists
-Foreign training                     aYa yyYVyyYVYYVYyYYYvYVyyYYya
-Local training                       a_y_y_a                                                                                      a       y--y--a--a--:Y--Y--Y-- ,-:  :  a
-Incremental operating costs                   4---1------:l---l---l--- l---l---l---:l---l---J--- I---I---I---  1---1---1--- t---3---1
tcl lopleentation capacity
-minor civil works                    *PPPPPBDB8OOIIII11aaa
-Furniture                            :     P:PI9DGIIIII:                 :              a             :             :             :
-Equipment/IVhicles                         P                                               aPaB80111111  ------------    II------ -llt---ttt-- ----ttlI
-Foreign specialists                          :IXXXXX XXIuXx X:XXXzX  XXIKxXXXXXXXXXXXXx iuuluK ixl:XxixiiuiuR uXuXuXXXu  xuuI: xuuuxuiXXI:
-Local specialists                    2                                                                         X
-Foreign training                                                                                 yyyyvYYYYYYY
-Incremental operating costs                   IiiSil   itlll1Iiitll   tiiiil111111   1111il111111
(dl Scholarship eanagecent
-manor civil works                    .PPPPPB BBDOIIIIIIII:
-Furniture                                  PPBBOOIIIIIII:
-Equipment/Vehicles                         PtPBBOOlIIlIII:
-Foreign specialistsX------XtXIII:------IIIIII:------IIX---IIIII                                                                                  :
-Local specialists                              y-Y-t-y-y-:y-Y-y-v-y-y--y-y-y-y-y--y-y-'-y-y                                         
-Incremental operating costs                   1--1-1 --  I_I---1------ 1I---1I---1I--- 1---1------ I_:I---I---I--- :1---1---1
Wel University planning unit
-Equipment                           Pa PBBOIIII
-Foreign specialists                           X-X-I-I-X-I-:u-x-u-x-x-a
-Incrinental operating costs                   I---1---1---:1---1---1---:1---1---1---:1---1---1---:1---1---1---:I---l---
B * Bidding                           P - Preparation
6 * Suarentee              a            a Research/study
I atpleoentation                      I - Auration of appointment
O *  DID/6ovt review                  Y a Duration of training
01:3b P2



- 165 -                                                                          ANNEX 3-13
Page 1 of 3
CuthTL AnicA    tUPULIC
PDUC7TION1 IthAEILITA7IOt AJMt IttfLPHN1   PROWt?
81U09dM 0? SPMCIALIST LZnVICU
OvRAtIOlt
9U116U Or      STATUSI        It         Coeender
PhOIFC7 Co1OVutN                      SPECIAL3S  StAvICIS               *tISOlS         7YPt %SmS    iOta                 t                        108 nUctsCgtptHt
I  tIP8OYt MMAIWY IUACNIi QUALITY
-Pt4-netvIe4 toth*f               1. techet trainr nd  seving                    4          CivIl          1.6      6/8a      8/91   Freparetton of the workshop to 4istaua  the teachers
training program                    etcft of the        ths.   t en                        Servant                                   profile add content of the pte-efnirte  training
CWCep/IMRAP                                                                                      tour....
2. Prie.y teacher traitntg                     2          Local          I        6/88      8/91   Worhehop on tettoep ettive evolatton 0n teacher
spec ialists                                                                                     tfoinftnn.
3. Teacher trelner/Otr.rtor of  0              t          FotSign      O.S       6/88      8/91   worsheop on retrospective eO'luatto  on techetr
tal                                                                                              training.
4. Prtelry ttacher training                               tocol          6         6/88     8/91   Took fortce on new pte-eervtcs tescher training progres.
GP*,:lIIt#a (s^ee as WAt.)
3. Teach(r tr3iner/ti      or of en            I          POTeI8n       2         6/88      4'91   Flaboration of the revlsed progrso  content.
Ctl ($see of rot. 3)
-Pe4d4S4tC&l topport  d           6. Specieltets in ttoCher eOpport                         Civil          3        6/89       8/91   Proparation of workshop on teacher inspettlon and
ron.tvl of ptrnery                  and Inspection (Inspettor  sod                         Servent                                   eOPport.
ceoaher$                            Cps)
1. Cen*,rl Inspector of primary                I          Forei6n       I         6/89      6189   Prepatrtion of Inspention wackshop.
8. Staff of the CYFC (Inepe*toet*              2          Ctitl          3         6/89      t/91   Op.rotion/teacht2g Of the workshop on tnopection.
eeperlinre)                                            Seroente
9. tnspectorste end Adeintairative             2          Local          3         6/89      1/91   Operation of the InepectorAte votkshop.
experts
-Teething peseonnel              10. Pcrson.nl specielist ot ptieary             4          Lctl          1.2       6/88      7/88   Mesher of Task Porte  on the career atrcture of teachers.
p-retdres  rnd resoutao             Inepectore With personns 
ecn.Ve4ent                          CaOagcOet Aaperlence
It  School rteource san*$eee0t/ttae             4                         1otAl  1.2  h/8    7/08   Lduettional reosurcs  enegement taek force.
tilsh specialists
12. Cenetel Inepectof of Schooie/               I          Fvtac          I        b/t8      7/88   Advisor to Tesk Fore,/pereonnel
Pereonnel
1. General Inspector of Schools/                I          Foresln        1        6/88      2/88   Advisor to T.ck Fore/reesowurco.
A*s-orte
-1n-,ervic  tcroiog of           4. COFC And CPR teft with                       4          CLvil          1.6       6/88      9/88   Proper4tton st workshop for the ptriary tchoot
och.ol ditottots                    #.peratIoe so a ahool  itetor                          Sroents                                   dtrAttore.
13. Inspectr Genersl of prisery                I                         Ioreigo  1  6/88    1/88   Preperation of workehop for primry ashool d4rettors.
16. CRIC cr4 CPR staff ($ee  ref. 1ih          24          Clvil        64         6/88      9/92   Teaching end opr*tifon of the ethool dtrector wokdh*p.
Servant.
-Ir-servIce  training of         1' EENS/tist/CKC *nd  ilIf etatt vwih           2          ClvII          8         5/18     6/91   Preparatton of Mlodle*  1, 2 snd 3 of in-servico
pr,iery tfech4ri                    tescher training exPoetient                            Servants                                  tretnins ctree,
Is. Pit"ry in-serte training                    I          fortisn        I        5/88      6/88   Preparation of module  I and 2 of in-service coers,.
spetielist/ot head of DIl
19. Specielist tn dwetane                       2          Local         o          5/68    10/88   Prcperatlon of rAdio follow-up pTogrss.
*d.catton/educationel redio
20. Edvcetton Z441i  epecriliet                 I          foreign        I        8/88       9/88   Preptretion of radio follow-up progres.
21. CPR staff (Ineparteore et                  24          Ctvil       623         6/88      9/92   Tseching of the in-service progras. (Modules 1, 2. 3,
tonselliets P8dagogIq.ue)                              S*rvants                                  end 4)
-914-tern *vaioetioo of          22. Teecher edoctor6/eoelnarton                 4          Local          1.6      9/91    10/91   Mid-tern "elnetion of teether edwatito, pograss.
lo-ocrtee teather educftiou          npettt.
21. Tecch*e  ed.ettor/l-4d of tlN               I          Poreiot        2         9/91    10/91   Aselet In the std-t*rs eelastion ot the progrets.



- 166 -                                                           ANNEX 3.13
Page 2 of 3
01J96t1t0
P902Wst Ct401ltNT         t        *tttCIAST SBBVIC"                P188065 O      tP        N         RSAJllt I   _                         JOB DtSCtPtTION
3. POAGOICA.l MT?IALS
-IductioOsl Publtbhtfg          I. Ntetot, co0eltaoc/duqettooaI             I         Porlagn       6         I/U      10/923   Nsnaget/edvtot to Covernat on the textbook
cepecity                          publightng editor                                                                            component.
2. Idltocial consultcnt on                 I         PotCL9o       7         5/I"      9/9S    fdttort.l *dvisor to th  nastional teatbook wrting
educettneal bookt                                                                             '
-Padegogl *valuatlen            ). evaluator                                '         Porelso       3        S/6U      10,93    £sluoatloo ot student  et.tvement.
50" purchse                     4. iook procut_nat apectlltat               I         Potextn       1.? 2     /66       5/86    Prgt4paetoo of the bidding docua ata fot ehoel
testbooks.
S. Luvettool publto4st/.dLtor              I          Poratgn      1.2       S/88      6/92    voluatten of tho "ducettonl quality &nd contest of
the boas propoed.
6. educational publshbt/pgltorer           I         Yoretgn        1.2      S/U6       6/92   tEvluetion of the physteal speciftittaons of textbooks,
7. Upcottoaal publtehe                    I         foralgl       I,?       5/9       6/89    Asetatance to Covoenast to float chotce ot textbooks
Sod oegotetteon of contractt.
8  look porcuranot  pe ;lettet            I          torentg      4         4/91      6/93    P  vecttton U   Second supply ot textbooks. btddtng
(see  proftle..s ref. 4)                                                                    4 cousoea. aet.
9. Lostotitsce/tare4  speciatlis           I          foretgn      1,5       5/89      6/91   DOsttbutioo sod storege  ysten for ped.bogtcel
*ntereets,
3. 0ASIttIttlTAttO  Of PRItftt
StllOOLS
-Preveottov  elntocnenc*        I. ipectaltt to system R" A  4epnt          I         Forstsa       2         3/88      6/89    De40t of System to woatot mensgeaet of school
and trainins                                                                                 butldings.
3, Suildng uaitens eo/btl4tng              I         foretgn       3         1/90     t692    uperttton of tregInal .etLare fat tho APte and oschoo
etn$Ieers. Comuntty development                                                              dtecotes.
spec leltel
S. Sen  protiel as sbove (ref.  2)         2         Local         6         3/90      6/92    tsbove (ret. 3).
-1shahtIltlttoo ptotrcs         4. Iuttding  ongileer/archt tec             I         lorel        60         1/8U     12/9)    Nuttoosl coordtnator of the rsh#btItcettoo  progres and
butIdtant standards.
S.  vIiop1nt pnIto.T5ftom.Olty             4         fIoreign    ISO         l/U      12/93    itatonal coordInator of tho rsbsbltitatton program.
development spcys tl tel
6. Coouity development speclelltrt         I          For*eIn       1.3      1/68       6/91    TrAtnang cod senothiltlation of the r*eatnl bultdtog
dviseors (soan  person as ref. 3).
'. butildInt enlneera/torutity             I         Lotal       606         l/tU     12/U)    lglonal coortnotor rehdeblltteton progrse (Includlog
development specteltste                                                                      the sesots t t. URCES ftom third pter of operation).
Ltocl support stsaf (4rfttsna.            I    t    Lotl        21S         1/8U      12/92    Support staff.
secretery. end driver)
4. INSPCTORATE
o. eNeghsoot sp.citai inepetor            0         Local         1         2/86      5t8      PrepAretlon of workshop on docentraltied  4etoltsretlon
of schools (OCIK spectIalst)                                                                 of schools.
2. teregmnnt speateltit                   10         Lotal         S         5/U8      6;'92    T0erhIng/trrtning the sentnor on dersotrelts*d
dtalottratton everY 2 ypers.
S. PELSOCNSEL HANtAGEtNT
1. Peroonnel maneasnant                    I         foretin       4         3/S8      6/90    Job d8f nltton/clesiftcastbo. psrsonel procedures.
2. Computer specttelrss                    I         Local         2         3/1       6/69    Progrestng of the p.eronnel n0 ng530nt system.
6. Vt*ASCtAL  Il *tSttlSC
(tesOawc 64046sent)             1. It*ng*not of phystcal resourt.o          I         Folgt.        1.5 2S6l            6/69    Dnesign and Ispl*vAstatton ot co*put*Teld Invantory of
(computer spetialtat)                                                                        duceatton pactimoay.
2, Procotremnt Advisor                     I         Foretgn       4         i/"       6/90    Workshop on preparation of biddIng 4otuaCots.
piroceduree tet.
1. Istates/Plsnt wnogeent                  I         Foretgo       0.t       4/89      4189    OporstLn of workshop on, maenemont of educetlrsel
butldtlge.
4. 1uldtg1ns1 naget/pleolog                I         Local        OJ        4/89      4/89    Operation of workshop on the noagsant of educational
butld tng.
(Dthe   prorestlOg and          S. Coeputtal  ed4tvor/trainer               I         Local         4         W/e       6/91    Support for the developant of coputtnln/statlstce.
statlet its)
6. Computer progrmmer                      I          Lorel       60         l/ie      12/92    Pro*ram  (Dbhs"tt and tous 1-2-S etc.) tor the OP
7. ducAtIonal stetiettce                   I         Poraltn       3         4*IU      6/90    Eduutttoonl otttftte processIng.
8. U.cetlonal stattotics                   2         Local         S         4/86      6/92    CollectIon and vrtIftcrtloo ot educattoOel 4t4tI*Ctc6.



- 167 -                                                                       ANNEX 3-13
Page 3 of 3
DUUTAfOl
8188lk8 OP     STAmUS/        Ill       Cn4.p
P8J0tC  CoIQlPllUIT                  sPICIALIST Ut91tc8                 P1SK           tYPt       IKAOftmh                                      J0o  DtSCi8lP710ti
1. PMOJtIct NA1IAFtUt
1. ProJect Oitrcto:/tI*nagat                  I          L4tol        84         1/88    12/94  pFolort aansacr.
2  Deputy Director                            '          Forelgn       2         Use8    12/93   4Assitant to the project Gaoper.
1. Adotost"rtor                               I          Local        84         I/AS     12/94   Financtlal  personnoel, &d contracts *anogeoeot.
4. Accto.tfttt                                I          Local        84         1/88    12194   1tcovnt0t1.
S. Shott-terD monoulteatn
- Educationtalist                                     f Voreign     2        tS oeded          Coanoct of PtoSrasu.
- hceoftatat                               I          Vorasn        6                          rcaactoa ot t natctei/acoouncng  *ys.
* Procur4aOnt specialist                   I          Politgo       t                          Preparaton of btdding do*cuaets.
Coaputer *ptotfltot                                 F oteign      2.2         '              Prolritng/lnetallttoo ot f tnnctCt opaot.
. Atudttor                                    I          7oralgs       14        6/88    12194   Aoanul *nd $e**-4oooal euditt.
1. RovIes  comitte                                       Local        30         Id4 88  .1493
S. Support *taff
- Slcratol                                            Local        3          1/te    01/94
Driver                                   I         Local        84          1/88    12194
9. Dtfterent profiles to prepare a   c  needed           Forelsn    IF           10/93   !2194   preparation of 0  otorer project.
future projaet
8. NArTIONAL SChOLARSIIIP
'8t8V ICE
1. Coaputat propomar                          I          Local        12         1/88    12/99   Design r aod ptoltlming of conputsTized ayptae  tot tile
senasmaat ot ocholarthip0.
2. Mitco-coesputar apaieltst                             Local         I         1/88    02/88   tostslistion and etart,tp of tCh  aIcro-coeputlaS untt.
3. 9udgating/PIAaotoS spatceliet              I          Local         2         1/E8    02/89   Diagonals of the current student flo.v
(tdueattooal plnoner)
4. Ed4octtoirsl Statisticien                  I          Local         2         1/t8    02/89   Classification of atu4dOto by level, apectelloatlon.
0n0stiute. ote.
S. £dUCatiooal ?lInoar/Sratl4ttltao           I          Fotaigo       I         1/88    02/88   Study of etudent success taco in fronc.
6. Education Eco.osiet                        I          Foretin       4         2/88    01/90   LAbor eatet/aepove  ralatlonhhtp with education
aector.
1. Syoa cAfnAlyat                             I          F.tVogo       2         1189    02/90   Quoto *ovte. deatls.
8. tducatt'-O ttonooist                       I          Local         I         I/89    04/89   Study on telatloonhlp bSove.a ducacloo *nd eeploywet.
9. Edsctor                                    I          Foretgn        1.3      1/89    03/89   As above (ref. 8).
10. Lcbor Iconootet                            I          VotelP        1.3       1/89    03/89   as above fref. 8).
n  LJIVEtSlY  PLAIM   UNIT
1, Cooter Spetlallst                          I          Local         I         1/88        02/88   Stc-up of ticro coapoter u0t.
2. PlInn r/Fcoo tit                           I          Locsl         6         If 88    11/94   University development Plan.
3, Sttiaettcle/tducational Plann0r            I          Local         r         1/88    12/94   Untiv.rity davalopaant Plan.
SUMMARY                                      MAN MONTHS                                  % DISTRIBUTION
(Civil Servants                                      754)
Local Consultants                               1,320                                                 78%
Foreign Consultants                                 370                                               22%
TOTAL                                           1,690                                               100%



- 168 -
ANNEX 3-14
caffw nft%CAX 4"VILIC                                                        Page  1 of 3
puTaS lott kt"AaISITATtJIC  ANDl DtEOP*t1oBtt  ptnit"t
8088.00  Of LOCAL. 8811 P080101 040A81 5
ito  ot     0r        t0510' ttrn
Proloto C:poo.,t                   1Feld of Itooj                700on.   toosiSo   ,T,e  to    tlostho            B.t004t f11008 tb.tro  of 0toohtl,oL*o
I   spoovoaeat of t,  l0y 004
Ufftcfooo,
t. PlrtO! 89010011A
(a) ta sool  toachor          Il. ltaPttoo  Oocholqoo                  I      1o00004    of"   £/90      so Jb 84.10 L66144ort.                    CoL#Eao    to, 8r0  uper'lsloa of
08.0314                                                                                                                                        primary JAO"pototstes
2. Vookhaop am toshebo  and echool       I30      local    ?/U   7/90        GO  Md'a"4d dqr* itn *adu.stoood    1 .dslo,t0 0t0.   of potlry
em8aftto  Sea p0aeparatton to 00t0rte0t0 1n OdoaOttel  0800808at. I.9t00t1ate0 .
0tet   thb t1.a-aeltto 418104
.  choo5l uAAmOo .4                      801      Loa       8/tt 9tfJ       S43  8bhol  lroeto,o  (sotalkad pttooy   Sebool directors.
ataustrattots                                                                  t swkrP wickt stlebt
4. tb.e el teatMal 0.0o00,               IS       Local   10/80  h/91   2,474  £goat. *soot0  oauptiouoa               Pv8i.rp school t0a0b10.4 a *ft.
ttu10   00a41; dtl P00g100 to                                                 (oaoot.aa4 ptt1.0  t0444Okrs)
hootl  daielpll..  fto-aoO'ict
S. 6.0..1l tt eblo   So ahod.          1,731      Local   It/tS   t/93   2,Ot0  lstastsoteu.o. tloot01to adjointo  htigtty .ch9.J ttathitm   otW.
(e-.aoote  stiLalojI.                                                       (tLI oal 04tmlry t00t00s),
4.  4u ottotal 1410.                       I      Pa-taIs    1//     3/88    I Uculatooal  .ed sond TV                Dawoetot of OtAar ' aduaotolata
aosc 1t.'1.                           rad0o 0d TV d*ptpt.ro.o
d    100ts0tat  p.0t
.trooins the tothool
s,ovioaimont through1
LI) t00ootd Suply   2. Utttast/Pubtshnag.                          I     Jo9esst  1/88    8/85        S  8Atvauc*4 dosg?. 1l advstOon Sad    Ottotor ot SAtt LS.oolc dos
of podop61o                                                                                          90.t1bt1.     axperience.            m*aul 1u 4tItolatSy  4. I'tdctatlon
8. ToUtbook 4d.1ct0.4 Sod   ltno,.         2     Forestn  1/4/   11188       12  Adaut,o4 dogs.. to OdocatloS  04           .t.aoo  4t8ot.t.  Mf.
v.,ltolt/.dt t tm  *opoo atc.
. Idoutottelnl 00410i010  004              I      orraton  91U    8/89       10  Advoowed dogro. to .duestloa  ittt    Cbloto.  of taoiho1  *0410t1oft
00se0t0b  tathet4                                                             so.Ooreh *pdri#a4s, Mtitotoo  of    coml1oono t1 I0.0  non.opobla Lor
Do8).                                   tte004    So, COov.tom.tt  OauettoLol
p010010 108
10. trotboob 0o01,t.oo.                    I     70.*014   1/89    4/89       6  sla000* to £4uC0t0o0  WiOlt  01U00 01, Ct00ttn 80 I81AP of as   10t0ot1at0
0s090l.t0e (*0  t .op6tLova)          001at0 on th0  oadoallool ..loo of
books..
II. t1.0o.tloo Oasl.olq,u.                40      Local   3/O8     3/91      10  hogres t. 0dt4to01  tvtb h 0161ttoft t0btrs of  w.o0.tIo0. 00"s
OupsTi'.ooo*
12. tftntlt0 tS4hfo*#                      2      0orot1n 130 /89    t190    10 p?loazq  0 t1hni0la1  wItl 1ihIA  staff.
-- tftentne troldits.
1. bod. ploc.rb..nt pro oa,roo.          30      Local  */8t t     /92       3 81 ..  $*0800l e.dvonoo  .04           DnW alOt.
a9altatrtvts, ts"tt{snee
14. horehoue as sessmet.                   I     J01.05n  1/U8    4/88        3   o*.ad tohitcal oductcon SW0 1t0   Road of SlMS (trvlco Sea s4 nuals
0481loltotLIv  cportatfttt.           asolsosrs).
I     U0r1tsn  7/88    ties       3  Saod t    hoft £1 adoc801o    0.4tton   80.0.4. Sb  ultf or.    (SJh5).
--talstrative ooteac.
(1181 k6babiltattoo *ad  1. £propotOttst0 Cas0t0et0on                I      ftrattr  9/88    I/U8      10  Sowo  clvtl weeks 00t5e0*0120          Am 1".  of Dloactoor0 of ScheoI
04t1ta00tn               t.eboologld.                                                                  #*S00*/*0lblto.tv* atd lbog           Coo.towocloa/squtpa    L(DCCS)
proof"                                                                                                 dllOOOo/0000                          policy of basi1c constr.,ucton
saa so"Olce.                          ocnato4o.
14. PavooaolLt asL0tuo.t                   I     Foot.Sa  2/U8   10/88       10  Ctvlt  works ogLaott 0itb St l0 t 0   s t_ot.iblt of plyolo1l tfcilIty
facho,19... and facility                                                     S 70800I. co.oLouclos MA4             ismassaw. sispebvl.soo of 0811
ploo.lq.                                                                     oqoloooo -                              d ,~o0oLawtss lO000000y.
1'. Prot. start 0 -    op "    Itkho, go. I  10   total   4/88    4/t8        4  Civil wrkt  .thotetts  with           As 01    Set tf (volunt.o re and
ateadtrative ttrJtt nc.               mclttl  af tt), fTesin,
eoodiontteo.
is, pU  ims * trtmep mot08op _  o. 2      10      Lotl  4/91    4/tl          *  Civil wet0  tachlotoda  vIl.b          As gm   "toff (Vol.t0aeOa  Sod
0ioltt 8t 0 ttn      iinca.          gt*iiel .ap.L)., te0tjotl
toor4dio tte.
10. 80580081 assatt8nn 0. plta   tiv     t00      Local   $/18     $/91   12  Il        ftogI.0a,  0t0l.oriofa adt 84U  "spel"IbIs tot projet0
M8ala.a000.                                                                  Staff. 190.                           £oglomaseslos to 91030w  are8s.
10. bIoAL      itct(or. an               270      Local   1/t 8    1/2    S14   Sehool 8l80ct0t0,. OteO SaOtotti.   As Scool ootbotitUa. ptoot.an
ttt ti111o0I.0 tiao.oao*t, of poooatas o.oftoftoia (AtUC. )                                                  cofttldty p.wtcetlPtton  tn
Ohebol t4ouacito                      roba1110ttop, 0.  p0vo.0ttv8
0018t0000 to p00j3et Swes,00
(S) Iaeloooplas sad         "1. TraiutIs  of Iot oeoctats 800ft       10       Local   0/U      8/92      3S  1o    tap s    tt' qo1itfd .orils.8-    sftvoso.l a.n  t0o001t management
.10.0501.0010  poda-        in..oco. 04       0I1"1ota1001oLl.o                                           0f001,0 aosft f cm  iaapectaosoa.   of education at she t88p.t000800
40500 Support sad           000 m.08001.                                                                                                        levelI.
0.o9000oas, fatcioas                                  0
2. pSlokr Uwoat 1.0
,atIowisloO1
80) 0000) stalotudyt
btnoooot to
9*"Tal *&"I
t"ihtl ttao
(1) 8,wt0 tt4  Ubotstt  1. LtItby  t1e0c8 ftt-o.rvic.e             a       Local   S/U8   00/90       4  44see.  40.800) t4.t00tt01.0 door.      8rnl,8t8   of tO1 Library Staff ,
t0010805).                                                                    MOd  Mearso exporo,"ec.
2. Ltlarp baftes08a.                       I     flostnh  10/50   9/tI       24  Dogros, tollbrr It   10t0t n mg       Sead Librari 0. a4 deputy at t0e
*WIAO8 1 to lrthory 811rr 48101-      81vt0st0 y of gaal.
tlsilts Sad40808808000.



- 169-                                                                   ANNEX 3- 14
Page 2 of 3
Local                     Total
fto. of       .r        T1oi4           Ka0 A
ll'o o                                                    IC Qt11 T                                      At t g   Itn ntt
801.00.   F'or.eo     Vt    u.d  m_Pthon              Sao  uoltftehtIpooa b         t       lt.t
tl. 9... rtl,tIv loO      ol 
P 4.0utro
r ult0ton Ot 1005
allocate cad t.pttOn
II, I'orao,,o.  s.o.s.-    . I.e a,d opot.cl..  of 01*10-                2      fotrISo   l/Ut    ./89         8  145t.a tn poblir *dolol:rdtloo ot  Cnttputoul.44 *dolt*ltraet ot  *nd
cr.c                     ..r.p..t.ro                                                                           pergonnos  OIOa5ao.t 404 tId.            parsonoal .uao.s.at tor ItEtt.
dsdtoteratlna  a,partISOt
2. rstroonel oaoas.ooot.                       2      fotttgn   10/85    5/90       16  0a8r.e tn p1ilth *4ultattOttort or  DAP staff.
pe.ronnal snmasmsnt and vide
personnel ldatalotration
1. Trac.lolr   prosjto deolon and              I      Foreign   4/55    6/b885          5.s.   d04 *optrlonce to pblitte    mIn.soa5         t or tratlnog Unit tn DAP
noao.gesot.                                                                          adolntltrartono
4. N.Ittso1o   mWd osV*z*  4.015.              4       local   l/la       bl89       b  S.ore. In sclncolao   o.beu6tic God        OAP stott
teeth1ng *oprttano.
11  kIllno.11 and          1. P'Q00rot4sA.t                                I      For.lgn   10/d8    )/89       10  Sound  .oae*l sdluetion snd broad   As DWAf sttff. ptoontag and
7tao1s *I                                                                                                      *4dstoltrativ* aep.rtwint.                topl00aotntt   protu.atCtn, phy11t.L
r.co.t'o sefaclitie.a  aopply 0atosesent,
cooputarlsell data procdastns ond
fineotlal control.
c. It.o..toty 000555fi00r 0601nst.            is       torl    1019   11/89          5  IlildIng t6cl,0tlelns with 4d*atn-  2*qlonsl coCrdinstor, Acallotc
trattve *apetlance end public            Io.pectOrata.
4dotnlctr.rtoon
1. op.. tto,  .0d .at of nSiro                 2       bll,L   1/88    12/89        2t  MIddle level .0d  aenlor clerical    Coneral adltlattratton .04 a.pport
rocp.ttrs.                                                                           sod sd.l tattttlv   stasf  (on tho    staff.
job training)
Uork0ttp on d4ta pI.orCSIng.               It      Iu:l    1/55    12/90         4  510t4e level And Senior ctgrttal    Cenaitl adulntstrtacoo .14 support
aad ad4tsnitrtatlv  staff                eta/t.
(tnlttottton).
I     I'ol..15   9/88    12/90        6  SOgrta  In "thatits or statistics tIoon./Advtaor tfor education
and 4tattlttCel ooparto'n.               *tatistictalA alysts
6. Wltrkhop on data procoealft a4n            10       loc.l   6/88       6/90      14  )ttddl  ed .0 onto,  statstitcal        GC  orstioo end a*ploltatlon of
stAtIStics                                                                           p.rgoogel.                                eductItonal  setatisatil dats.
t.  OOnlOtotoI     OLO'4       7. 1   to)ct OA-SOOtOt.                        I      8o40015   9/91      6/92      10  0t5too t  adaintostratlti tonnaoc:        lN.Sgmaoat and suprvt.ton of
Inpl.nn.. t lotin                                                                                                  and  snprtanoe  t1  project               future project actvtitos
-pa.tlt  4l'ol.et                                                                                                04al*asoaot.
I  01560. kdu.ctloo
a,/ Prooot1t.5  ratloall-    1. Sealno c.n h)gh*f e4u40(tt1 ds ts           /. Idoo*l   2/88    2/90               4  Ogr4* to mathematice  or cooputar   Computerisod m*neg"if_t of scholar-
*.ttlA 1 A0 d redo-tlon      ptocOSO1OS.                                                                           Sctlnes  and  *.pertidtc  to              shipe.
of -hAsrehip                                                                                                       aducation.
a. p. 04 Ibm
. Swntr o.  plaomolg/0u4sttoa.                 6       Local   2/69    8/91          4  Degree to sconomtts/pla00t08 or           Plaotmng the scholarship pro5ras
finante .4d aapartratne t*  ptannooo   .ad prtptattoa of tha .cboltfshtp
or b.d4attal.                            budget.
1  Stombr tn otstlaclle                        4       LC4#1   7/85       7/S0       4  Degre  tin "tChlsttes or statisttic  Prptcna  stuacttsttcs on student tn-
and *op.rtnoe ton higher ed4teIlon   flow  n0d plac.aeot as a basit  to
atd  snpwatr statisttcs.                 astcbit1 quota.
4t  SAWla  on. uitolstion  wodel.              6       Local    1/89      7191       4  Degrte  10 tcopotat stttnce and           Plaorlng the davelop.ont Of htdker
experience to eduration, *conotic   education on nthe banoS  of sa.power
and an"povSr An  ysta.                   neols.
lb  r,IootclW 1     10 p140-     n0,.
oilng '6P.14ty At Eht
'InlootsIy otf Sngal
SIJMMARY OF TRAINING                                     MAN MONTHS                               % OF TOTAL
Local in-service                                            5,929                                         85.9%
Local others                                                    801                                        11.6%
Foreign                                                         170                                          2.5%
TOTAL                                                       6,900                                        100  %



- 170 -
ANNEX 3-14
Page 3 of 3
Criteria and Procedure for Fellowship Award
1.        Objective.  The fellowship program has been designed to build up
the technical, administrative or managerial capabilities of MEN staff, to
allow them to implement the project efficiently, formulate sound plans for
future sector development and execute these plans in a cost-effective
manner.
2.        Criteria for Fellowships Awards
(a)  Field of study:  Fellowships would be awarded only for studies
related to project activities or future professional responsi-
bilities in MEN;
(b)  Qualifications:  Candidates must:
(i)  have the requisite academic background;
(ii)  have minimum of one year of work experience in MEN;
(iii) have fluency in the language of course of study;
(iv)  be in good health;
(v)  demonstrate intellectual curiosity, analytical capability,
initiative, drive as well as the ability to work in a team
and share knowledge with others; and
(vi)  manifest potential for advancement.
(c) Other criteria: Candidates must:
(i)  have a good understanding of MEN's medium- and long-term
strategy, as well as of the project, its objectives and
implementation;
(ii)  agree to serve MEN for at least three years in the area for
which he/she is awarded the fellowship; and
(iii) repay all expenses incurred in pre?aration for and during
his/her fellowship training, should he/she decide to drop
out of the program or elect not to serve in MEN.
3.        Procedure for Fellowships Award and Management.  Candidates for
fellowships would be proposed by the relevant project Directorates.
Selection would oe made by a panel chaired by the Project Coordinator and
including the Secretary General and representatives from the Directorates
General of Education and of Administration/Finance. The fellowship
recipient would sign with MEN an agreement identifying the post for which
he/she would be trained and specifying the obligations of each party
(especially para. 2. (c) (iii) above).



- 171 -            ANNEX 3-15
Page 1 of 3
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
Part A. Procurement of Goods and Works
1.      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and woags shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections 1 and II of the "Guidelinrq for Procure-
ment Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985
(the guidelines).
2.      Bidders for the works for remodeling administration buildings and
for school construction shall be prequalified as described in paragraph
2.10 of the guidelines.
Part B. Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
3.      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A. 1 hereof, goods manufactured in CAR may be granted a
margin of prefere'nce of 15% in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C. Preference for Domestic Contractors
4.      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
eescribed in Part 1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference
of 7.5% to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D. Other Procurement Procedures
5.      Equipmen; (excluding printing of textbooks) and furniture con-
tracts as well as building materials and construction contracts estimated
to cost the equivalent of between US$20,000 and US$100,000 equivalent per
contract, which are not likely to attract overseas foreign firms, would be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally (LCB), in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association, provided the aggregate amount of such procurement shall not
exceed the equivalent of US$2.65 million equivalent.
6.      Items that cannot be grouped into bid packages of at least
US$20,000 equivalent provided the aggregate amount of such procurement
shall not exceed US$190,000 equivalent, would be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of at least three suppliers or contractors eligible
under the guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.



- 172 -
ANNEX 3-15
Page 2 of 3
Part E. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Prior Review
7.      For all contracts or bid packages of at least US$100,000 equiva-
lent, each of the following stages in the procurement process would be
subject to IDA's prior review and commented upon by IDA staff before they
are implemented and finalized:
- Advertisement
Prequalification (if called for)
- Bidding documents and addenda
- Bid evaluation and proposal for award of contract
- Contract documents
- Subsequent major modifications of the contract
2. Initial Review
8.      For all contracts valued at up to US$100,000 equivalent, an
initial review, followed by a post review or a random review depending on
size of contract, by IDA staff would be required for standard documents
which are common to a number of procurement operations, for example:
- the general format of advertisements and their circulation;
- the prequalification questionnaire and method of evaluation;
- standard reg .sters of prequalified contractors; and
- standard bidding documents, including instruction to bidders,
general conditions of contract, and in some instances, technical
specifications.
3. Post Review
9.      For all contracts or bid packages estimated at between US$20,000
and US$100,000 equivalent, two copies of the final contracts, together with
the bidding documents, bid evaluation and award decision, would be
'1irnished to IDA for post review before the first application for with-
drawal of credit funds against these contracts.
Random Review
10.     The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs of Part E, (1), (2)
and (3) shall not apply to contracts valued at under US$20,000 equivalent
on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained at the Project Coordination Unit for random review by IDA super-
vision missions and for regular semi-annual audits.
Part F. Specialist Services and Fellowships/Local Training
11.     Specialist services, including audit se.vices, valued at US$5.0
mrillion equivalent, would be contracted in accordance with IDA's guidelines
and on the basis of invitation for proposals from three to six qualified
and experienced consultant firms and agencies and on an exceptional basis,
kfrom individual specialists. Fellowships, valued at US$590,000 equivalent,



- 173 -           ANNEX 3-15
Page 3 of 3
would be contracted in accordance with IDA's guidelines. Local training
represents US$2.59 million equivalent and would be carried out under
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Services of trainers
are covered under specialist services.
Part G. Consumables
12.     Consumables (office supply, spare parts, gasoline, other consum-
ables), would be procured through LCB according to procedures acceptable to
IDA. All goods or services would be grouped, wherever possible, into bid
packages of at least US$20,000 equivalent.
Part H. Participation by ForeiEn Firms
13.     About 57% of the contracts for works and goods would be procured
through LCB according to procedures acceptable to IDA; if foreign firms
wish to participate under these circumstances, they would be allowed to do
so in accordance with local procedures.
Part I.
14.     The figure of 5% would be specified for purposes of paragraph h
of Appendix 1 to the guidelines (related to any material modification or
waiver of the terms and conditions of contracts or granting a material
extension of the stipulated time, or issuing any change order under such
contract which would increase the cost of contracts by more than 5% of the
original price).



- 174 -
ANNEX 3-16
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF GOVERNMENT AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES CONTRIBUTIONS
1.       The Government's financial contribution to che project is
estimated at CFAF 391,847,000, equivalent to US$1,343,000 or 6% of the
total project cost. The Government's contribution would finance, on an
increasing basis, an average of 30% of the incremental operating costs and
the totality of the primary school directors' housing.l/
2.       The local communities' contribution, generated from parents
associations (APEs), is estimated at CFAF 360,044,000, equivalent to
US$1,234,000 or 6% of the total project cost. The APEs would finance
either in kind (labor, and local building materials) or through cash
contributions, the completion of the classroom structure with locally made
blocks (artisanal bricks or blocks of stabilized earth compacted in
hand-operated presses) the school sanitary facilities and the fencing.
3.       The table below shows the breakdown of the Government and local
community contribution by expenditure category and calendar year.
Government and Local Contributions by Exependiture and Catexory and Calendar Year
(in '000 CFAF)
1988     1989     1990     1991     1992    1993    1994    Total
Financing/Category      1        2        3        4        5       6        7
Government
- Operating Costs    6,841    8,940   17,881   20,861   29,801  35,761   5,960 126,045
- Teacher Housing   10,740   64,440   56,385   67,113   67,125       0       0 265,802
Total              17,581   73 380   74,266   87,974   96,926  35,761   5,960 391,847
Local Conmunities
- APE inputs        32,954   71,142   65,604   86,446  103,523     375       0 360,044
TOTAL              50,534  144,521  139,870  174,420  200,448  36,136   5,960 751,891
1/  This contribution does not include incremental teachers' salaries which will
be fully financed by the Government.



ANNEX 3-17
tEIIRAL AFRICAN RtPtJ0t1C
EOlitAlll 0 EA01PtItIIIIA 1118 AlD DIWMOP1111  P901JEC
DISFPIRStEENT PROF ICE
DOsbursecwte                Prolile
IDA ristal Ve,t-
and Quartprs                   Date      Attual Cueulative         Projett  Setor
a             3      351 mar-8e    0.40    0.40
lb            4      S0 Jun 88     OM       0.40 ni                        DI
89            1      30-Sep-88    0.01    0.41
09            2      MIDet-98    0.04    0.45                    31        St
89            3      31-Mar-89    0.23    0.68
89            4      30-Jun-89    0.37    l.OS                   6?       III
90            1      30-Sep-89    0.42    1.47
90            2      31-Det-89    0.53    2.00                  fi1      I?
90            3      31-Mar-90    0.62    2 62
SO            4   30-5 J-l90  0.67  3.31                        19t   741                                                               DISBURSEMENT  PROFILE
91            I      30-Srp-90    0.73    4.04
91            2      31-De.-90    0.77    4.81                  271       331 /
91            '      31-Mar-91    0.80    5.61
91            4      30-Jun-91     0.81    6.42                 6t        421                                                                                                                                                         tn
S2            I      30-Sep-91    0.84    7.26
92            2      3l-Det-9I    0.84    8.10                  451       527                      hi       ?O 
92            3      31-Rar-9Z    0.o5    0.95
92            4      30-Jun-92    0.88    9.8                  551       61S                                O -f
93            1      30-Sep-92    0.87   10.70 tO                                                   o-                    
93            2      31-Dec-92    0.90   11.60                  65?       70?                       u
93            3      31-11ar-93    0.96   12.56                                                                                                           f
93            4      30-Jun-93    1.15   13.71                  77t        71                       Z
94            1      30-Sep-93    1.10   14.81
94            2      31-Dec-93    0.96   15.7?                 08t        841
94            3      31-"Ar-94    0.82   1b.59                                                              2O-
94            4       n lan-P9     0.77   11.36                 97?       89t
95            1     30-S,--q4    0.64    18.00                                                                                 /
95            2     31-0ar-95    o.,oo    18.00                100%      94A    S                                                         M            .u-st        Jul-92 Arr-93             Se-44 r
953          WI-'ar-95    0.00    18.00Fb*8                                                                          *P9          u9              n9         Jt9                        e
95            4     30-jun-95   o.00    18.00                  1007      982
96            1     30-Sep-95    0.00    18.00                                                                      a     Pwljd Pra                                      +      set   P.dt.
96            2     31-Dec-95    c 00    IR.nn                 I0OZ    too?
04:39 PR                                 17.9S
05/2S18?



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                                         20
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJET DE REHABILITATION ET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'EDUCATION
ZONES TO BE SUPPORTED BY IDA FOR THE                                                                        1
REHABILITATION OF PRIMARY SCHOOLS
ZONES ASSIS TEFS PAR ['IDA POUR LA
REHABILITATION DES ECOLES PRIMAIRES
REGIONS PREVIOUSLY SUPPORTED BY IDA FOR                               CCHHAAD
THE REHABILITATION OF PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                                            *
REGIONS PRECEDEMMENT ASSISTEES PAR L IDA
POUR LA REHABILITATION DES ECOLES PRIMAIRES
REGIONS SUPPORTED BY OPEP FOR THE                                                          ,.
REHABILITATION OF PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                    Garbo a
REGIONS ASSISTEES PAR L'OPEP POUR LA
REHABILITATION DES ECOLES PRIMAIRES                              _.                                     '
REGIONS SUPPORTED BY ADB/ADF FOR THE
**~REHABILITATION OF PRIMARY SCHOOLS
REGIONS ASSISTffS PAR LA BAD ET LE FAD                                    8   St4M IN G l J         BANCORAN'
POUR LA REHABILITATION DES ECOLES PRIMAIRES                                  AI . .O;
To Sorh I  .oS,-;              -,       *   NDELE
\   .   ;,tt      -. N
\ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ -,^  '} II                                         
Cb- -- A Mts ., R/ PE PE  S NELBl                                                  /     !'05                                  O
-6t~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~-  $T                                                             w   ''y  0
_  .                      'w  i                       M__     -''k~
~~~~HA4                        f  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTO~~omnu
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
It'EPESRPBLC0                                                                             5          0          5
ji                                           KILOMETEFIS'_________________________~~1~1 se
OF   THE                          MIL~~~~~~~~~~oeS
CONGO   ,1~~~~~~~~~~~
"A  w-.!     16.  "H.



_  IBRD 20617
._.   *_(                   ~~~~~~~~24-
J1                       \                                    + UNIVERSITY OF BANGUI
,TION                       ('                                                                  INRAP NATIONAL PEDAGOGICAL INSTITUTE
*   -   .                                 INST. NAr. RECHERCHE ANIMATION PEDAGOGIQUE
rIRAO                                       CNFC  NATIONAL IN-SERVICE TRAINING CENTER
{*            \                                    CENTRE NAT. FORMATION CONTINUE
SAB   NATIONAL SCHOLARSHIP SERVICE
SERVICE AUTONOME DES BOURSES
uD/    A                              VV A K AG(A                    I A                        ACADEMIC INSPECTORATES
9 - . t   v  W*                         /                           INSPECTIONS ACADEMIQUES
R REGIONAL PEDAGOGY CENTERS
CENTRES PEDAGOGIQUES REGIONAUX
;erbo                                                                                       A   DIRECTORATE OF SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPMENT
DIRECTION DES CONSTRUCTIONS ET DES EQUIPEMENTS
SCOLAIRES (OCES)
D )>0uonda9ife D'  Ai A REGIONAL SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPMENT UNITS
,11 ,         iSxtsJCoORAf \s ._._,        UNITES REGIONALES OES CONSTRUCTIONS ET DES EQUIPEMENTS
if  I~~~~~~AP~~~iCC)RAN  ~~~~~~~~~  . ~~SCOLAIRES (UJRCES)
~ '  >7   0OuandJii            *   WAREHOUSES
* aN DELt E                             {               *                 (                ENTREPOTS
E  CURRENT ENROLLMENT
EFFECTIF$ ACTUELS
io   ~   >*                             Ii     CL  EXISTING CLASSROOMS                                 8so
-Oudda                                              CLASSES EXISTANTES
CLR  CLASSROOMS TO 8E REHA81LITATtD WITH IDA PROJECT
CLASSES A REHABILITER SUR PROJET IDA
3mingui                                  A         F             OTTO
( t~~~~~~i A   1JT                             K      O T  T   O 0
-'S.
; > a     h    ij:    Xuango                                                                           JOUrES PRINCIPALE
ROUTESALJT  '   SUDAN
Mangob.fng                                           ABO'MOCU
/Djerno
MAIN ROADS
ROUTES PRINCIPALES
~i~BAYE    l                                                                                  SECONDARY ROADS
ROUTES SECONDARIES
OTHER ROADS4-
AUTRES ROUTES
RIVERS
RIVIERES
MARSHES
REGIONS MARECAGEUSES
4 INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
AEROPORT INTERNATIONAL
* AIRFIELDS
tOO       150                                                                                               AERODROMES.
r______________________                                                                                        PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
50               100                                                                                            LIMITES DES PREFECTURES
INTERNATiONAL BOUNDARIES
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
24-
JUNE 19S7



