Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16304
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 1863-CAR)
February24, 1997
Human Development 2
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without the authorization of the World Bank.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency unit            CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1                     CFAF 499.8 (March 1, 1996)
CFAF I million           US$2,000.80
SDR I             =      US$1.47345 (March 1, 1996)
[JS$1             =      SDR 0.67868
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
BORROWER'S FISCAI, YEAR
Januarv 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFA       Assisted Self-training (Autoformation Assistee)
AFVP       French Association of Volunteers for Progress (Association fran,aise des volontaires du
progres)
APE        Parents' Association (Association des Parenits d'El&ves)
BEPA       Studies, Planning and Records Office (Bureau d'Etudes, de Planification et des Archives)
CAR       Central African Republic
CNFC      National In-service Training Center (Centre National de Formation Continue)
CPR        Regional Pedagogy Center (Centre Pedagogique Regional)
DAP        Personnel Directorate (Direction de l'Administration du Personnel)
DBCM       Budget, Accounts and Materials Directorate (Directioni du Budget de la Comptabilite et du
Materiel)
DCES       School Construction/Equipment Directorate (Direction des Constructions et des Equipments
Scolaires)
DEPF I   Primary Education Directorate I (Direction des Enseignements Prescolaire et Fondamental I)
DGAF      Administration and Finance General Directorate (Direction Generale de l'Administration et des
Finances)
EGE       National Forum on Education (Etats Generaux de l'Education)
ENI       Primary Teachers' College (Ecole Normale d'lnstituteurs)
FNAPEC   National Federation of Parents' Associations of the Central African Republic (Federation
Nationale des Parents d'Eleves Centrafricains)
IA         Regional Academic Inspectorate (Inspection Acadcmique)
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Association
IEF I     Basic Education I Inspectorate (Inspection de 'Enseiginement Fondamental I)
IREFP     Institute for Research, Studies and Training in Pedagogy (Institut de Recherche, d'Etudes et de
Formation Pedagogique; formerly INRAI')
MENRST  Ministry of National Education, Scientific Research and Technology (Minist&re de l'Education
Nationale, de la Recherche Scientifique et de la Technologie)
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
PPF        Project Preparation Facility (advance)
SABS      National Scholarship and Short-Course Service (Service Autonome des Bourses et Stages)
SDAD      Social Dimensions of Adjustment and Development
SDR       Special drawing rights
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO  United Nations Educational. Scientific and C ultural (Organization
UNV        United Nations Volunteer
URCES    Regional School Building/Equipment Unit (Unite Regionale des Constructions et des
Equipments Scolaires)
Vice President         Jean-Louis Sarbib
Technical Manager      Ok Pannenborg
Country Director       Nils Tcheyan
Staff Member           Herbert Bergmann. Education Specialist



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY
Introduction ...........................................1i
Project Evaluation Summary ............................................i
1. EVALUATION OF PROJECT EXECUTION
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES                                      .....................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ..........................................3
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING  THE PROJECT ..........................................6
D. PROJECT SUSTA            INABILITY  ............................................8
E. BANK  PERFORMANCE ............................................9
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .............................................                                          10
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ............................................                                          11
H. FUTURE OPERATION                                ..                           ......................................... 12
I. KEY  LESSONS LEARNED ...........................................                                            13
2. STATISTICAL DATA
TABLE 1:   Summary Assessments ..................................                                              17
TABLE 2:           Other Bank Loans/Credits ..................................                                 18
TABLE3:   Schedule ..................................                                                          18
TABLE 4:           Disbursements: Planned and Actual (Cumulative) ..................................    19
TABLE 5:           Performance Indicators ..................................                                   20
TABLE 6:           Key Indicators for Project Operation ..................................                     22
TABLE 7:           Studies Included in the Project ..................................                          23
TABLE 8A:  Project Costs ..................................                                                    23
TABLE 8B:  Project Financing ..................................                                                24
TABLE 9:           Economic Costs and Benefits ..................................                              24
TABLE  10:    Compliance with Legal Covenants ..................................                               25
TABLE  11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Directives ..................................                    26
TABLE  12:    Bank Resources: Staff ..................................                                         27
TABLE  13:    Bank Resources: Missions ..................................                                      28
ANNEXES
SPECIAL ANNEX: Institutional Strengthening in the Central African Republic ..                                  29
ANNEX 1: Mission Aide-Memoire .30
ANNEX 2: Borrower's Project Evaluation .33
ANNEX 3:  Map of the Central African Republic .41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reapients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY
Introduction .............................................i
Project Evaluation Summary .............................................i
1. EVALUATION OF PROJECT EXECUTION
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES ............................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .............................................3
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING  THE PROJECT ............................................6
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY  ............................................8
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ...........................................9
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ...........................................                                              10
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ............................................                                            11
H. FUTURE OPERATION ...........................................                                                  12
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ...........................................                                               13
2. STATISTICAL DATA
TABLE 1:   Summary Assessments ..................................                                                17
TABLE 2:           Other Bank Loans/Credits ..................................                                   18
TABLE 3:   Schedule ..................................                                                           18
TABLE 4:           Disbursements: Planned and Actual (Cumulative) ..................................    19
TABLE 5:           Performance Indicators ..................................                                    20
TABLE 6:           Key Indicators for Project Operation ..................................                      22
TABLE 7:           Studies Included in the Project ..................................                           23
TABLE 8A:  Project Costs ..................................                                                      23
TABLE 8B:  Project Financing ..................................                                                  24
TABLE 9:           Economic Costs and Benefits ..................................                               24
TABLE  10:    Compliance with Legal Covenants ..................................                                25
TABLE  11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Directives ..................................                      26
TABLE 12:  Bank Resources: Staff ..................................                                             27
TABLE13:    Bank Resources: Missions ..................................                                         28
ANNEXES
SPECIAL ANNEX: Institutional Strengthening in the Central African Republic ..                                   29
ANNEX 1: Mission Aide-Memoire .30
ANNEX 2: Borrower's Project Evaluation .33
ANNEX 3: Map of the Central African Republic .41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT
(EDUCATION PROJECT III)
(CREDIT 1863-CAR)
INTRODUCTION
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Education Rehabilitation and
Development Project in the Central African Republic, for which Development Credit 1863-CAR
for SDR 4.1 million (US$18 million equivalent as of 1987) was approved on December 15, 1987.
becoming effective on April 13, 1988.
2.    The credit was closed on December 31, 1995, with 100% disbursed (balance: SDR 2,182),
and the final disbursement was on February 23, 1996).1 UNDP, which was the sole cofinancer,
provided US$100,000.
3.    This ICR was prepared by the consultant, Mr. Rene Lecysyn (Architect and Project
Implementation Specialist), and reviewed by Mr. Herbert Bergmann (Education Specialist,
AF3PH), Ms. Penelope Bender (Education Specialist, AF3PH), Mr. Alain Papineau (Architect,
AF3PH), and Mr. David Berk (Division Chief, AF3PH).
4.    Preparation of the ICR was begun during the two final project supervision missions, in July
and December 1995. It is based on the project files, field visits, and discussions with project
managers and beneficiaries. The Borrower contributed to the ICR by producing a separate
evaluation of project preparation and implementation and commenting on the draft.
5.    As of the closing date, the project had had varying success in achieving its objectives, partly
because of the "lost years" (annees blanches), when the education system was paralyzed for two
academic years.  Some objectives were exceeded from the quantitative standpoint, such as
classroom rehabilitation and the supply of textbooks. Other objectives were only partially
achieved, despite good project management (e.g., the procurement of goods and services). Some
palliative measures permitted headway to be made in the right direction. In particular, the budget
indicators in the sector Action Plan made fairly steady progress, although they did not achieve the
original objectives.
According to the MIS (CTRFI Web Services), May 28, 1996.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT
(EDUCATION PROJECT III)
(CREDIT 1863-CAR)
PROJECT EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.    The project (Credit 1863-CAR) evaluated in this report was the third Bank-financed
education operation in the Central African Republic. It followed Education I, implemented
between 1973 and 1981 (Credit 308-CAR, with supplemental financing under Credit 1073-CAR)
and Education II, carried out between 1983 and 1988 (Credit 1359-CAR). The first project
supported secondary education by providing the modem sector with trained and qualified human
resources, and the second was introduced to develop primary education, after a decade of neglect.
The results of these earlier projects were uneven, since the physical objectives were more fully
achieved than the qualitative, institutional, human resource or budgetary objectives.
2.    The main objective of the present project, under the IDA's country assistance strategy, was
to provide coherent and continuing support so as to maximize the impact produced in the education
sector by the 1986 Structural Adjustrnent Program (Credit 1732-CA). The comparative advantage
of IDA over other sources of assistance and financing was that it could help the Government to
define a long-term program for education rehabilitation and development and identify the reforms
required for the rational allocation of resources and investments in the sector.
STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    Pursuing the strategic objective of supporting optimization of the impact of structural
adjustment called for the implementation of budgetary and personnel policies that could be tracked
by means of quantitative indicators and whose targets were to be approached gradually while
remaining linked to the credit disbursements, so that the Borrower's actual performance could be
properly monitored. The project had two specific objectives: (a) to improve the quality of primary
and higher education; (b) to strengthen the capacity for managing the education system at the level
of the Ministry of National Education, Scientific Research and Technology (MENRST) and the
University of Bangui.



- ii -
4.    The project had 11 components and subcomponents: (a) to provide in-service training for
teachers and pedagogical advisors; (b) to supply textbooks and teachers' guides; (c) to rehabilitate
classrooms and establish a community-based maintenance program in three regions; (d) to
strengthen the system of inspections; (e) to expand the university library; (f) to rehabilitate and
reequip the Science Faculty of the University of Bangui; (g) to strengthen MENRST's Personnel
Directorate; (h) to strengthen MENRST's Administration and Finance General Directorate; (i) to
strengthen project implementation capacity; (j) to strengthen Bangui University's Planning Unit;
(k) to strengthen MENRST's National Scholarship and Short-Course Service (SABS).
5.    The evaluation of objectives is positive, apart from the omission of any objective relating
to the results of the learning process. The definition of these objectives was the outcome of lengthy
discussions with the Government and a series of preparatory studies; it also benefited from the
compatibility between the Government's education reform strategy, the content of the Structural
Adjustment Program, and the key lessons leamed from the implementation of the earlier projects.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
6.    Project implementation was satisfactory overall, and was virtually finished by the closing
date of the credit, which required two extensions of six months each, despite sociopolitical
instability, two years of paralysis in the education system, and a 19-month suspension of
disbursements.
7.    Some targets were exceeded: (a) as regards infrastructure, 968 classrooms were
rehabilitated instead of 880 as originally planned, and it was possible to add offices and housing to
the original program thanks to the savings that resulted from the CFAF devaluation and the priority
given to primary education; (b) for the same reason, 670,000 textbooks were purchased instead of
the planned 430,000.2 Other activities achieved their objectives (e.g. strengthening the inspection
system, improving learning and teaching conditions in the university, and strengthening SABS and
project implementation capacity. The following objectives were partially achieved: (a) the teacher
in-service training program, which extended to only 65% of the expected total; (b) the
strengthening of management, administrative, and budget capacity, since only the equipment and
training components were fully implemented, while managers and technicians trained under the
project and subsequently reassigned elsewhere were not replaced.
8.    Sustainability. The sustainability of the project's contributions will be a reflection of the
extent to which the objectives were attained. It will depend on follow-up, application of the
management tools introduced, and the levels of the allocations made in the capital and recurrent
budgets for maintaining and increasing the standards of service provided by the project. The large-
scale implementation of a community-based infrastructure maintenance system appears to be
possible, given the willingness to become involved expressed by the APEs (Parents' Associations);
however, it cannot yet be taken for granted. Supplying enough textbooks to ensure satisfactory
ratios will make it necessary to establish systems of stock management and renewal that will
2   Although the value of the balance of the credit doubled in terms of FCFA, the inflation rate in 1994 was 38%.



- 111 -
preclude simply donating them free of charge, as well as measures for protecting school buildings
in urban areas. The Government will have to cover the operating costs of the school inspectors'
vehicles. Given the poor results achieved in institutional strengthening, a lasting improvement in
MENRST's management (i.e. in personnel and budgetary control) and in the pedagogical
development of teachers is unlikely.
9.    Final Cost and Project Financing. The project cost was an estimated US$20.7 million,
comprising US$18 million (SDR 14.1 million) from IDA, US$1.3 million from the Government,
US$1.2 million from the communities, and US$100,000 from UNDP (plus subsequent assistance
from the Association fran,aise des volontaires du progres - AFVP). The credit was fully
disbursed two months after closure on December 31, 1995. The Government was unable to provide
its full share of cofinancing owing to a lack of funds at the end of the project, and 30 of the planned
79 housing units for school directors could not be built. Owing to problems with the monitoring of
accounts, the project accumulated debts of US$350,000. Overall, the in-kind contribution from the
communities and the technical assistance from UNDP and AFVP went according to plan.
10.   Project Implementation:  Bank and Borrower Performance.  The credit became
effective on April 13, 1988, and closed on December 31, 1995, after two six-month extensions, one
of which was largely due to bad weather affecting the civil works. The project was satisfactorily
prepared and appraised by Bank staff, with assistance from UNESCO.3 Many preparatory studies
were financed by the PPF, the main purposes being to prepare standard documents and design a
prototype primary-school building. Bank supervision of implementation was regular and effective.
The Borrower's participation was effective during project preparation, and particularly satisfactory
during implementation, given the lack of changes in the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) team,
which was well trained and had access to good technical assistance.
11.   Major Factors Affecting the Achievement of Objectives. Among the many factors that
arose during the eight years of the project, there are three main reasons why some components fell
short of their objectives: (a) the paralysis in the sector during the "lost" years; (b) the substantial
turnover of sector staff, together with an insufficient "ownership" of project objectives on the part
of the Ministry's various units; (c) the shortfall in the national counterpart contribution at the end of
the project, which was closely correlated with insufficient progress in the budget indicators relating
to structural adjustment.
12.   Project Results. The project results can be viewed as partially satisfactory in light of the
support provided for sector rehabilitation. Its achievements will help to boost student performance
through improved leaming conditions. Owing to the turmoil in the sector during the "lost" years,
this contribution will be difficult to evaluate. The software provided will serve as the basis for
rationalizing budget and management decisions through the use of modern data-processing tools.
The impact of the project outside the sector is probably positive, since it has provided a concrete
opportunity for the involvement of local authorities in the management of social infrastructure,
UNESCO participated in a preparation mission.



- iv -
which is a boost for community development. It has also provided an opportunity for small
enterprises to rationalize their approach to the modem market.
D. KEY LESSONS AND FUTURE OPERATION
13.   Key Lessons. Implementation of a complex project over a long period in a context of
social instability can be satisfactory, particularly as regards the physical components, if there is a
stable local team well-versed in procurement procedures and regularly supervised by the Bank.
Achieving objectives that depend on structural reform and the upgrading of professional skills may
be more difficult,4 but the progress made -- even if only partial -- can serve as a foundation for
future sector work. The entire "institutional strengthening" aspect should be rethought, since the
approach selected has not produced the intended results.
14.   Future Operations. The Government does not have a plan for either continuing or
terminating the operations, or for increasing the sustainability of the results. However the Sector
Action Plan remains valid in the short term and has now been made part of the Public Expenditure
Review, in which Action Plan indicators will continue to be monitored. A future project has been
identified, based on a sector policy that takes account of the conclusions reached by the National
Forum on Education (Etats Generaux de l'Education) and which will culminate in legislation to
guide the education system. The lessons learned from the present project will be used in the design
of the future project, which will have four components relating to teachers training, textbooks,
school infrastructure, and institutional strengthening. Studies have been planned for measuring
how much the recent project has contributed to training methods and institutional strengthening,
and to identify alternative ways of training and of sector financing.
The sustainability of these other components is much more dependent on the extent to which the services financed
by the credit are found acceptable and the tools are incorporated into work routines.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT
(EDUCATION PROJECT III)
(CREDIT 1863-CAR)
PART ONE
EVALUATION OF PROJECT EXECUTION
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The project was designed to support the Government's education strategy in the context of
its Structural Adjustment Program. It provided for the annual review of a specific Action Plan
defining the budgetary objectives for the sector, the scholarship program and budget, and the
personnel and pedagogical objectives. The project had two major objectives, i.e.: (a) to improve
the quality of primary and higher education; (b) to strengthen the capacity for managing the
education system at the ievel of the MENRST and the University of Bangui, so as to increase the
efficiency of resource utilization.
Action Plan
2.    The budgetary objectives of the Action Plan were jointly monitored each year on the basis
of the quantified indicators included in the legal covenants of the Credit Agreement. Specifically,
the clauses chiefly required Government to: (a) allocate resources to the education sector in
amounts deemed satisfactory by IDA;5 (b) gradually increase allocations for primary education up
to 60% of the education budget, and raise allocations for pedagogical materials to 8%; (c) gradually
reduce allocations for university scholarships to 8% of the education budget; (d) redeploy
educational personnel to ensure that not more than 7% of all teachers in the sector work in
administrative positions. These targets were to be attained by the end of 1995, i.e. when the project
itself was to be completed. The following table shows the progress of the indicators during the
project.
5 From 1988 to 1995, education's share of the national budget ranged from 20% to 24%. The Credit Agreement
does not specify, an indicator in terms of a percentage, owing to the uncertainty regarding government revenues.



- 2 -
Changes in Action Plan Indicators during the Project
Year           Target  1988   1989   1990  1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
National budget                 34.900 40.700 43.100 36.300 33.700 28.400 35.300  57.200
of which education             8.227 8.097  8.327  8.319  8.853  9.032  7.792  8.538
(a) %for education     Not       23.6%  19.9%  19.3%  22.9%  26.3%  31.8%  22.1%  14.9%
specified  I_I_I
(b) % primary education    60      51.5  54.5   53.8   58.4   57.8   58.4   53.6   54.4
(c) % scholarships          8      15.8  14.6   15.5   16.9   15.1   9.8   12.8   12.2
(d) % materials             8      0.8  1.1    1.6   2.7   4.1    5.4    4.8    5.4
(e) % of teachers working i  711  n./a   n/a   15.6   n/a    n/a    8.8    9.0
administrative positions
Project Objectives
To Rehabilitate Primary Education
3.    The actions were intended to: (a) improve the quality of teaching through seminars and in-
service training courses for some 120 teacher trainers, inspectors and pedagogical advisors, 2,700
teachers, and 800 school directors; (b) improve learning conditions by: (i) providing about 430,000
textbooks and teachers' guides; and (ii) conducting a program of school rehabilitation and
maintenance involving some 880 classrooms in the Ouaka, Mbomou and Bangui regions;
(c) strengthen the school inspection system, which was being decentralized, through office
construction and the provision of furniture, equipment, office supplies, and vehicles.
To Rehabilitate Higher Education
4.    The actions were intended to: (a) strengthen the university library through extension of the
reading room, acquisition of 7,500 volumes, and the training of librarians; (b) strengthen science
teaching by repairing and remodeling the Science Faculty and procuring laboratory equipment and
materials; (c) strengthen the Studies, Planning and Records Office (BEPA) to enable it to assess the
national demand for highly trained manpower and gear university training to meet that demand.
To Strengthen MENRST's Administrative and Financial Management Capacity
5.    The actions were intended to: (a) develop a computerized personnel management system
and train staff in its use; (b) streamline accounting and budgetary procedures and develop a
computerized financial management system and train staff in its use; (c) renovate, equip, andfurnish
office space for the Project Coordination Unit and strengthen its staff s operational capabilities.



- 3 -
To Strengthen the Operational Capacity of SABS
6.    The actions were intended to: (a) renovate the Service's offices and provide furniture and
equipment, including computers; (b) conduct a study to determine whether the higher education
system is geared to the requirements of the labor market in the Central African Republic.
Evaluation of Objectives
7.    Project objectives came to be very clearly defined as a result of a sound combination of the
following factors: (i) the Government's education reform strategy; (ii) the objectives and guiding
principles contained in the Structural Adjustment Program; (iii) the lessons learned from the
previous IDA-financed project (Education II). Having embarked on a reform of the education
system in 1984, the Government decided in 1986 to focus on objectives such as: (a) improving the
quality of education, particularly at primary level; (b) strengthening sector management and
administration through decentralization; (c) mobilizing the support of all interested parties,
including teachers, parents and students.  The Structural Adjustment Program  introduced
mechanisms into the education sector for controlling spending on scholarships, improving resource
management, and widening the reforms in the civil service. Finally, project preparation took into
account the results and lessons leamed from Education II, extending and adjusting some of its
activities for improving primary education, and strengthening resource management and project
implementation capacity.  In short, the project's objectives dovetailed closely with the
Government's priorities and the World Bank's country assistance strategy. However, project
planning neglected to include any objectives relating to the leaming results produced by the
education system or any components enabling improvements in the quality of education and of
school inspection to be evaluated.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
8.    Overall, the project had been partially satisfactory in achieving its objectives as of the
closing date, despite the two "lost" academic years that paralyzed the education system. Some
objectives were exceeded (from a quantitative standpoint), such as classroom rehabilitation and the
provision of textbooks.  The other objectives were only partially achieved, even though
procurement was well managed. However, a number of palliative measures made it possible to
make some headway. The budget indicators in the Action Plan had reached a level equivalent to
about half of their target values as of the closing date.
Action Plan
9.    The indicators for budget allocations and staff composition progressed favorably overall,
although the target figures specified in the Credit Agreement were not achieved. According to the
first update of the Action Plan in August 1995, and in the context of the execution of the
government budget in 1995: (a) 20% of the Government's recurrent budget went to education;
(b) 55% of the recurrent budget for education was spent on primary education (as against a planned
60%), with 5% for teaching materials (as compared to a planned 8%); (c) 12% was spent on



- 4 -
university scholarships (as against a planned 8%), with non teaching staff accounting for 9%
instead of the target of 7%.
Rehabilitation of Primary Education
10.   (a) Improvement in the quality of education included in-service training for just 65% of the
numbers originally planned (1,909 teachers instead of 2,908), so that this component achieved its
objective only partially. The main reasons stemmed from the forced interruption in the training
schedule caused by the "lost" years, when the education system was paralyzed, and the difficulty of
managing the interruption of teaching during the school year so as to permit the selected teachers
to be away from their classrooms for three weeks. To offset the shortfall, the project extended the
training to cover 700 community teachers, unlicensed and under-qualified teachers recruited at local
level, an example of the flexibility called for in such situations.
11.   In parallel to the project under consideration here, an IDA-financed project relating to the
Social Dimensions of Adjustment and Development (SDAD) was implemented, and trained 275
teachers a year under an accelerated nine-month program. Trainees from the project were used to
replace the teachers sent for refresher training, thus partially addressing the problem of interrupting
classes during the school year.
12.   (b) The improvement in school conditions was very substantial from the quantitative
standpoint. Instead of the planned 430,000 textbooks, 670,000 were procured thanks to an accurate
evaluation of needs, a careful analysis of the bids, and sound cost control and procurement
procedures. Distribution of the texts was properly managed down to the level of individual schools
by using a batching system (one lot per school) prepared far enough upstream.6
13.   Nine hundred sixty-eight classrooms were rehabilitated instead of the planned 880. Offices
and new schools were added to the original program. However, toward the end of the project, the
shortfall in counterpart funds made it impossible to build all the accommodations for school
directors.  The quantitative objectives of this component were exceeded because of the
establishment of URCESs (Regional School Construction and Equipment Units), resulting in good
on-site coordination, proper application of construction techniques, a sound knowledge of basic
costs, and substantial community participation in rural areas. Furthermore, the initial assessment of
construction costs was based on the Education II project, which provided for completely
commercial construction, with no community participation. As a result, this component benefited
from a measure of over-budgeting (which was put to good use), supplemented by the effects of the
CFAF devaluation.
14.   (c) Strengthening of the inspection system was carried out according to plan, including
rehabilitation of offices and the supply of furniture, office equipment and vehicles. Thanks to the
vehicles, primary school inspectors were able to resume their visits to schools;7 however, there are
6   Many books got lost during and after the political disturbances, basically because parents do not consider schools,
teaching equipment and school materials to be their responsibility.
Previously, they had had to rely on opportunities provided by inspection tours by Prefects.



no available figures to indicate the frequency of inspections, since no monitoring indicators had
been established.
Improvement of Higher Education
15.   The three components described in Section A of this report were fully implemented with no
major difficulties. The library in the University of Bangui now grants twice as many students
access to its holdings, which were increased under the project and are managed by staff that has
received training abroad. The Science Faculty provides renovated and reequipped laboratories for
teaching subjects that are priorities for the country's economy. BEPA has stepped up its activities,
operating under the good conditions provided by the project. Computerization of these three
components has been particularly successful and has even become a source of income as a result of
the fees charged for computer training for personnel from the public and private sectors.
Strengthening of MENRST's Administrative and Management Capacity
16.   In the evaluation of the components included in this objective, purely physical and technical
contributions should be differentiated from the efforts to strengthen professional capacity. The
installation of computer systems, the preparation of software, and training went smoothly during
the early years of the project. They continue to be used, to some extent, in the various units.
However, it appears that users who received special training at the time the systems were
introduced and the hardware procured were not replaced by others with equivalent skills once the
former were reassigned to other duties. The project inputs were made available as planned, but the
objective of strengthening the administrative and management capacity of MENRST's central
services was only very partially achieved.
Strengthening the Operational Capacity of SABS
17.   Similar conclusions can be drawn from an evaluation of this objective. The physical
components were satisfactorily implemented. SABS is fully operational and capable of performing
its duties, despite the needs that have been identified relating to the maintenance, renewal or
increase of materials. However, the study to determine whether the higher education system is
geared to the requirements of the labor market, for which the Appraisal Report and the Credit
Agreement assigned responsibility to SABS, was not completed. The partial documentation
submitted by the consultant is really a monograph on the existing situation in the public and private
sectors. For unknown reasons, the Borrower did not insist on the completion of the study, which
was to contain concrete proposals for establishing short courses geared to market demand, as a
logical consequence of the first stage of the study. The repercussions for sector policy are serious,
since they hinder the reform of the University of Bangui.
Additional Effects
18.   The intensive activity involving school construction and equipment by Central African
enterprises has contributed to private sector development. The enterprises have learned to operate
in a transparent and formal manner as a result of the bidding, contracting, and contract management
procedures.



- 6 -
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
19.    Two main types of risks were identified at appraisal. First, the CAR did not have any
experience with complex projects in the field of education. It was agreed that the Ministry of
Economic Affairs, Finance and Planning would participate in the annual review of the Action Plan
to ensure that the budgetary targets contained in the Plan were acted upon, as a condition for
disbursement of the IDA credit. The project activities had been phased in over time to ease any
implementation problems arising from the complexity of the project. The second risk lay in
institutional weaknesses in financial management, planning and budgeting, and ongoing projects
encountered delays in the provision of counterpart funds. This project was designed to respond to
those risks through a carefully planned approach to sector rehabilitation by the Government, and
particularly through the provision of consultancy services in financial management, the increased
participation of communities in the form of labor and materials, and the training program in project
management provided for the PCU team.
Factors beyond Government Control
20.   The Government was unable to control the following factors:
(a) The disappearance of primary school textbooks during the "lost" years, particularly in urban
areas as a result of thefts from buildings that were inadequately protected, and where
parents did not take this on as their responsibility; the estimated losses were 30% of all
textbooks procured, and the current average ratio of books is 1 for every 3 students,
although in Bangui it is only between 1:5 and 1:20;8
(b) The paralysis of the education sector during the "lost" years as a result of sociopolitical
movements led in particular by teachers and students; consequently, supervisory missions
were suspended, since it was impossible to hold working meetings with the Ministry
because it had been deserted;
(c) hesitation by FNAPEC in establishing school management boards, since it had been
inactive for some time and also had doubts regarding their feasibility;9 this is why a
community-based maintenance system could not be established by the closing date;
(d) the failure to fully mobilize urban communities, making it uncertain that a prompt solution
could be found for the problem of protecting school premises;
Figures based on visits to schools in Bangui during the Appraisal mission.
9   This is linked to the problems encountered with the APEs. At local level, parents often have a poor image of their
association if it does not have a dynamic chairman, and particularly if the treasurer misappropriates contributions.
Establishment of a new organization is often viewed as posing the same kinds of risks. Furthermore, participation
by the school director is also seen as a potential source of conflict of authority with the chairman of the
association.



- 7 -
(e) the adverse weather conditions that slowed the program of civil works, which was one of
the reasons for the second six-month postponement of the closing date.
Factors Ordinarily under Government Control
21.   The following are factors that the Government ought to have controlled, but which
adversely affected the project:
(a) The significant turnover in professionals in the sector: a succession of nine education
ministers, leading to changes in directors and ministerial staff, with the consequent loss of
the training provided by the project and failure to strengthen resource management capacity;
rapid transfers of school directors who had received training;
(b) suspension of credit disbursements for 19 months owing to the Government's
noncompliance with the terms of the Credit Agreement; essentially, insufficient progress in
cutting back spending on university scholarships;
(c) insufficient counterpart funds, making it impossible at the end of the project to complete the
full program for constructing housing for school directors;
(d) the inadequacy of the tax revenue received by communities, which jeopardized any
effective short-term involvement on their part in the management of the primary school
buildings of which they themselves were the legal owners;
(e) delays in conducting the studies designed to enable the university to adapt training to the
job market.
Factors Ordinarily under the Control of the Implementing Agency
22.   No major factors were found that could have hampered project implementation. The PCU
benefited from sound technical assistance in the training of its staff, particularly in project
management and accounting. Its membership was stable throughout the project, and some of its
staff had had experience in the preceding project. However, four weak points should be mentioned
since, although they are relatively easy to overcome, they are partly the responsibility of the PCU:
(a) The difficulty of mobilizing some of the Ministry's teams that were responsible for certain
project components, particularly after the frequent staff turnover; this is one reason for the
failure to fully achieve project objectives, especially with regard to strengthening resource
management and budgeting capacity;
(b) the difficulty throughout the first year of the project of setting up and utilizing the
computerized accounting system, owing to the failure of the first consultant, who should
have been replaced more quickly;



- 8 -
(c) the difficulty of getting certain entrepreneurs to properly understand the procedures for
contracting civil works and procuring school furniture, in a context in which sole source
contracts predominate;
(d) the difficulty of determining the exact amount of funds available at the end of the project;
because of the concern to use up the credit, an amount of CFAF 169,959,720 was
overcommitted for school rehabilitation and equipment.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
23.   Sustainability is only very partially assured. It could be more fully guaranteed and extended
if: (i) the Government continues its efforts to reallocate the education budget in a manner that is
consistent with project objectives; (ii) allocations for education are increased under the
Government's recurrent budget; (iii) an effort is made to use personnel in accordance with their
training; (iv) greater emphasis is placed on maintenance of the infrastructure and equipment
provided.
24.   The following factors could affect the sustainability of the project:
(a) The losses of trained staff owing to frequent turnover for reasons unrelated to the objectives
of strengthening the sector; for MENRST, this poses the risk of weakening its budgeting
capacity in a context of inter-sector competition for funds, in which the possession of
reliable and recent data is an undeniable advantage;
(b) the inadequacy (or even absence) of a budget for the maintenance and operation of the
equipment and vehicles required for conitinuing to provide the new standards of inspection,
and for maintenance of the university library, whose rehabilitation costs (exterior
woodwork, windows, and air conditioning) are bound to increase if the work is not done
soon; equipment maintenance and replacement of laboratory chemicals in the Science
Faculty are also affected;
(c) in the Science Faculty, the lack of any training that is geared to the labor market and that
would help enhance its external efficiency (which would depend on completion of the study
of the relationship between training and employment included in the project);
(d) the failure to establish a system for supplying and managing textbooks that would ensure
that stocks are maintained and renewed as they get older or student numbers increase;
distribution free-of-charge under the project was a one-time event, and was intended only to
give an initial boost to the improvements in learning conditions;
(e) the absence of guards, fences, or other devices for protecting school buildings in urban
areas; this is bound to lead to further thefts and significant losses of teaching materials.
25.   Other project components are more likely to be reasonably sustainable:



- 9 -
(a) The in-service retraining for teachers will be a durable asset for the beneficiaries, regardless
of the pace at which they move from position to position.
(b) Once a realistic maintenance manual has been distributed, a community-based maintenance
system could be established, if FNAPEC takes charge of this task as planned by the
National Forum on Education and defines what methods are to be used.'0 However, so far
no committee has been established in Bangui. There are very few councils in the regions,
and those that do exist are not very active; therefore, the likelihood that this component will
be sustainable seems very small.
(c) Good use is being made -- by both managers and staff -- of the information systems
installed in BEPA, SABS, and the Science Faculty computer laboratory. The computer
laboratory in the Science Faculty provides training for the private and public sectors, thus
earning revenue that helps cover its maintenance costs.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
26.   Identification.  The Bank's project identification was satisfactory. The draft project
document was immediately consistent with the priorities of the Central African Government, in its
Structural Adjustment Program, and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. Project identification
and preliminary definition took place from March to October 1985, in response to a request from
the Central African Republic.
27.   Preparation. The Bank's performance was rated satisfactory. Project preparation, based
on the draft adopted in October 1985, was carried out over 14 months, and was completed in
February 1987. From the outset, UNESCO also contributed 15 staff-weeks of missions. The many
monographic studies carried out by local and international consultants on parents' associations and
cooperatives, and technical studies on computerizing information services, model school plans
(including construction of a prototype), and the lists of schools to be renovated, etc., helped prepare
project activities by spelling out feasibility conditions and implementation methods. Project
preparation was closely and regularly monitored by the Bank, which mobilized specialists in
education and school construction.
28.   Appraisal. The Bank's performance was rated satisfactory. It performed the appraisal
itself, with just one month's delay in completion. The Appraisal Report contained annexes
reviewing the individual objectives, the program of activities (description, methods, and schedule)
and the estimated costs for each component and subcomponent. The annexes were used as master
plans for implementation without having required any major changes.
29.   Supervision. Project supervision was carried out over the six years of implementation
through 16 missions to the Central African Republic, five of these being in 1989, the second year of
the project. Missions regularly included the project managers (who were education specialists) and
10  The management committee established under the project is not always well received as a starting point by
parents.



- 10 -
an architect who was also a project implementation specialist.   The sociopolitical events
characterizing the "lost" years led to a forced interruption in the missions from the beginning of
1992 to the end of 1993.11 Nevertheless, the Bank continued to monitor certain activities
(particularly construction) from Headquarters. When disbursements were suspended, the Bank
invited the Government to Headquarters to study measures for lifting the suspension. Regular
missions by the architect specializing in project implementation provided for close supervision of
the national team and prompt solutions to problems; in particular, they played a role in exceeding
the construction/rehabilitation targets. On the whole, the Bank's performance can be rated
satisfactory.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
30.    Preparation. The Borrower's participation in project identification and preparation was
rated satisfactory. In particular, the discussions between the Government and the Bank made it
possible to prepare a detailed analysis of the education sector and a pragmatic and coherent
rehabilitation strategy geared to the context of the country with regard to the "physical"
components.12 The Borrower also participated in the different preparatory studies, especially those
on tracking university graduates, the diagnosis of infrastructure, and the preparation of retraining
modules, hiring local consultants to perform part of the work.
31.    Implementation.  Overall, the Borrower's involvement was satisfactory, although there
were weaknesses in certain aspects which can be accounted for by the unsettled conditions
prevailing during much of the project. The indicators contained in the Action Plan were determined
at a time that was relatively calm on the social and political fronts, and this accounts for the
optimistic target figures. After the first year of the project (rated 1 in the supervision reports), all
the indicators declined for the next two years (with ratings of 2 and 3), until finally disbursements
were suspended because insufficient headway was made in reducing university scholarships during
the two "lost" years of strikes and political turmoil. It became clear that the measures for applying
the Structural Adjustment Program  in the field of education lacked selectivity,13 and that the
Borrower was no longer able to rectify the situation. The stringency of the voluntary retirement
program was responsible for draining off some of the best staff, who found better opportunities in
the private sector. Shortly before the close of project activities during the "grace period", after the
closing date, the project procurement specialist left, and this probably contributed to the loss of
control over commitments.
It was impossible to set up meetings with the central services or institutions, which had often been deserted by
managers and staff.
12  The intentions expressed in the strategy adopted at the time of project preparation were coherent, but contained
unrealistic institutional and budgetary recommendations.
13  Greater flexibility and selectivity in the structural adjustment measures would have made it possible, for example,
to hire university graduates (since computer training in the Science Faculty is good) instead of training ex-
teachers, who were not necessarily motivated to acquire a new skill and had been made subject to occupational
reassignment.



- 11 -
32.   Project management itself was rated very satisfactory. Guarantees of good perfornance
were provided by the establishment of a Coordination Unit that was independent of the ministry,
since it reported directly to the Secretary General, and which had a membership made up of
contract staff, some of whom had participated in the previous project, and all of whom were trained
in all project implementation procedures -- particularly as regards management and accounting --
and were supported by effective technical assistance and by a motivated Monitoring Committee.
The constant striving for good synergy with the managers of the various components in the
educational agencies crowned the first phase of the project with success when activities were
launched and implemented. However the "lost" years and the constant and extensive turnover of
staff at various levels led to a loss of those skills that had been acquired through the training
financed under the project (see Section C). In spite of this weakening of the process, which
jeopardized some project components, it was possible for the two-year gap that occurred during the
"lost" years to be made up for successfully, since the credit closed only one year behind schedule.
The strong position of the PCU and its physical distance from MENRST did not facilitate
"ownership" of the project by the senior managers concerned with project activities. However, in
the Central African context, there are no alternatives to arrangements of this kind.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
33.   Overall, the project is rated partly satisfactory for the education sector. Even though the
objectives were only partially achieved in some components, they have laid a solid foundation for
future activities in the sector and will clearly facilitate the definition and implementation of future
projects. The distribution of textbooks is a key contribution to improving learning conditions. The
demands of parents to continue the program could help to establish a distribution and management
system that will ensure service standards.14 The introduction of computers into administration and
management can serve as a starting point for future improvements if quickly put into practice by the
parties concerned, and if continuity is ensured by the use of well-trained staff that can be found
locally. In a context of budget constraints, decision-makers will have to depend increasingly on
effective modern information and management tools and on motivated staff with adequate
professional training obtained prior to recruitment or on the job.
34.   The physical results with regard to school buildings can be considered a success, provided
that maintenance is sustained. The project has had a positive impact on the private sector as a result
of the participation of local small and medium-sized enterprises, many of which familiarized
themselves with rational management methods in order to be eligible to carry out work or supply
equipment. The experience clearly helped to prepare them to deal with their specific markets.
Community development, more specifically the involvement of local authorities in providing and
maintaining social infrastructure, has been focused and enriched through the contributions of
parents' associations to construction. However, it is not certain that the involvement of local
authorities in infrastructure maintenance will be sustained. None has made a firm commitment,
14  The free and widespread distribution of textbooks achieved under the project should be completed in future by the
establishment in all schools of a procurement and maintenance system, which could -- for example -- include the
renting of textbooks.



- 12 -
which is not surprising in view of the lack of tax revenue at their level and the absence of any legal
instruments, such as a model school maintenance contract.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
35.   The Government has not yet prepared a specific plan for continuing the activities and
ensuring the sustainability of the results. The latter, in particular, is uncertain. The budgetary
improvements that had been planned and which were carried out during the implementation period
are already being lost. Allocations for education in the government budget (particularly primary
education) had increased during the project, but were cut back sharply in the 1996 budget. In
contrast, allocations for scholarships increased instead of being reduced. Furthermore, no decision
has been made regarding maintenance of the stock of textbooks and teachers' guides. The project
distributed maintenance guides for the schools that were built and rehabilitated, and the URCES
organized a community awareness program. School directors and persons who received training
under the project in information systems and management at central level continue to be assigned to
different positions.
36.   The Government, in cooperation with the Bank, has already begun to prepare a potential
future operation (Education Project IV). For future operations, the Bank stresses consistent sector
policy, in accordance with the recommendations of the National Forum on Education and Training
held in July 1994. Six months prior to closure of the project, a mission visited the Central African
Republic with the objectives of promoting the development of the country's education policy and
defining the studies required for preparing a new project. A seminar/workshop was held under
Bank supervision in order to help define the Government's education policy.
37.   The main results of the seminar were: (a) agreement on the general objectives of national
education policy (quality, effectiveness, access and equity); (b) definition of specific objectives in
the form of indicators with targets to be achieved by 2010, consistent with the views of the National
Forum; (c) exploration of strategies and courses of action; (d) consideration of the specific needs of
the inspection system at regional and municipal levels, with a definition of realistic objectives;
(e) recognition of the need to take account of external factors not under the control of the Ministry
of Education; (f) an indicative schedule for the preparation of an education policy, an Action Plan,
and a future Education IV project.
38.   A PPF advance has been provided for financing the preparation of the future project,
including continuation of the current Project Coordination Unit. The studies already defined
include: (a) administrative decentralization of education; (b) evaluation of in-service training
programs; (c) a comparative study of basic teacher training at ENI (the Teachers' College) and
accelerated training (the SDAD experience); (d) the economic justification of investments in
education; (e) alternative models for financing education. The advance will finance improvements
in the effectiveness of in-service training for teachers, updating of the school map, and a resumption
of the publication of annual education statistics. The potential project was identified during a
seminar-workshop held in October 1996. The development objective is to improve education
quality, thus making another attempt to rehabilitate the education system. Its components will



- 13 -
cover (i) teaching skills; (ii) textbook supply; (iii) infrastructure in order to improve the working
conditions of students and teachers; (iv) the effectiveness of the education system's management.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
39.   This third IDA operation in the education sector of the Central African Republic was the
first to be sufficiently complex for its implementation to entail risks. To mitigate these risks, the
project was spread over six years (a disbursement period considerably shorter than the average for
education projects in Sub-Saharan Africa), thus allowing for a gradual approach to the problems
arising from the implementation of activities. The key lessons learned are remarkably similar to
those that can be drawn from other complex projects, after many years of experience in many
countries in the same region, particularly during periods of instability and repeated institutional
change.
(a) Just as in the two previous projects, institutional strengthening was not successful (see the
Special Annex for further details). A detailed analysis shows that the services to be
financed under the credit were delivered; however, improvements in the operation of the
beneficiary administrative units either remained below expectations or did not take place at
all. The resources acquired were often not used as planned: the staff who received training
were assigned to other duties, the computerized information systems were not used,
improved procedures were not followed. An explanation is called for. Generally speaking,
there was a lack of "ownership" of these very expensive measures and tools, and there could
be many reasons for this: (i) problems with performance that were not viewed as priorities;
(ii) a lack of consensus on the reasons for poor performance, with shortages of equipment
judged to be more important than shortcomings in skills or behaviors; (iii) conflicts of
interest if certain stakeholders profit from poor performance; (iv) a lack of conviction on the
part of clients and/or decision-makers regarding proposed solutions; (v) a failure to
incorporate improvements into work routines; (vi) losses of skills owing to transfers of
trained personnel.
All we know is the outcome produced by these factors in combination; the comparative
failure of the institutional strengthening measures. In the present case, one major error was
to transfer personnel. However, the losses of skills did not affect all agencies in the same
way. The university was more successful in retaining its experienced staff. Some questions
arise that preclude any simplistic explanation: (i) Why were more safeguards not provided
for agencies benefiting from training programs? (ii) Why was there no provision for training
replacements?
If we look more closely, other questions arise: (i) Who identified the areas where training
was to be provided - Bank consultants, MENRST staff, or both? (ii) How was it
ascertained that the beneficiary agencies and their direct "clients" (other units in the
ministry) shared the same awareness of shortcomings, and sense of urgency and
expectations of improvement that were used to justify the institutional strengthening
activities? (iii) Were the organizations of beneficiaries (i.e. APEs and their regional and
national bodies) studied closely enough before responsibilities were assigned/proposed to



- 14 -
them for which they were ill prepared? (iv) How and with whom were institutional
strengthening activities prepared at the time of implementation? (v) Was the approach to
institutional strengthening that was adopted (i.e. individual training programs, seminars,
seminar-workshops, and specific technical assistance)'5 capable of obtaining the desired
results?
In future, this sort of component should be managed differently, from planning to
implementation, as should the role it plays in the conditionalities and negotiations prior to
signature of a Credit Agreement. It should be thoroughly discussed prior to project
identification and preparation. Implementation should be based on the principle that the
agencies benefiting from institutional strengthening should be the first that must be
convinced of the reasons, objectives, and the best means of proceeding.
The Bank must draw its own conclusions from the frequent failures of such programs. The
planning and implementation of institutional strengthening should be managed as a process
consisting of: (i) identification of areas of activity with the parties concerned; (ii) definition
of realistic objectives that take account of factors that have hampered institutional
strengthening in the past (e.g. special interests and sociocultural elements); (iii) a focusing
of efforts on those institutional functions and elements that are crucial to the success of the
project; (iv) constant consciousness-raising of all concerned (i.e. the agencies directly
affected, those upstream and downstream, and the public); (v) on-site training; (vi) follow-
up on how the lessons learned are applied by trainers, and hands-on coaching where needed;
(vii) review of objectives, and replanning of institutional strengthening activities.
(b) The membership of the implementation unit (in this case, the PCU) should be stable, and
should have a technical capacity matching the tasks to be performed, when necessary
strengthened by specific preparatory training and long-term technical assistance.16  In the
future, an attempt should be made to establish a single implementation unit for all projects
in the sector.
(c) One guarantee of this stability is to provide the unit with autonomy as far as financial
management and staff is concerned. An interministerial steering committee should be
responsible for liaison with the Government, and have sufficient influence to ensure that all
problems linked to implementation can be promptly resolved. The steering committee
should develop into a project management council on which all those units of the ministry
that implement the project are represented, and which can exercise decision-making power
with regard to project implementation in accordance with the Credit Agreement. Line units
in charge of project components should have trained procurement specialists on their staff.
S  It should be noted that PCU's working capacity, which is acknowledged by all the partners in the Central African
Republic, is the result of a judicious choice of staff, their continuity in their positions, and a long-term approach to
technical assistance, initially planned as permanent but which ended up taking the form of a series of missions
interrupted by lengthy absences.
16  The problem of over-commitment that arose at the very end of the project also serves to emphasize the
importance of keeping experienced staff as long as possible.



- 15 -
Plans of operation should be systematically used as management instruments by all units
involved in the project.
(d) When a project is combined with a Structural Adjustment Program, the latter should allow
for a great deal of flexibility in measures affecting human resources, so as to avoid any loss
of skills.'7 Even in an adjustment context, it should be possible to prevent the departure of
qualified teachers and to hire qualified nonteaching staff for key technical and complex
positions that use management information systems, such as those financed by this project.
(e) The replacement of managers of project components cannot be entirely avoided in a context
of social instability and political change. To ensure that the project will contribute to
strengthening administrative, management and budgeting capacity and resources, the losses
of technical skills that constantly impact all institutional development activities, need to be
minimized. The inclusion in the Credit Agreement of legal covenants linking disbursements
to the maintenance of staff specially trained under the project in their positions for a
reasonable length of time (subject to satisfactory performance) might help.
(f)  Actions relating to infrastructure should early on be combined   with community
development components. To support community efforts, the ministry should provide
technical support in the form of standard documents, construction standards and technical
assistance for construction and rehabilitation. In the long term, local authorities should
assume responsibility for building and maintaining schools.
(g) In-service teacher training should be a permanent part of the system. 18Pre-service training
should be reformed, shortening the initial training period, with a longer period of supervised
practice teaching before a teaching diploma is granted. Due to unemployment among
university graduates, it should be possible to recruit student teachers with enough education
to allow the focus to be placed on training in teaching methods. Together with maintaining
a good level of inspection and the development of radio broadcasting to schools (among
other methods of continuing education), this would help improve teaching skills. The
nonmonetary incentives envisaged when the present project was implemented should be
introduced.'9
Often such plans encourage the best performers to leave, since they believe that they have the best chance of
finding positions outside the public sector.
18  It could well make use of the assisted self-training approach (AFA) adopted in Madagascar.
19  The project had planned to hold competitive entry examinations into the civil service once distance learning had
been provided for MENRST staff, as a nonmonetary incentive.



- 16 -
(h) Because it will be impossible to continue providing textbooks free of charge indefinitely, it
cannot be guaranteed that the initial stocks will be maintained or expanded over time and as
enrollments increase. In a context of poverty, in which the vast majority of families cannot
afford textbooks, a compromise solution (for example, renting them out under the
supervision of the school and the APE) should be tested.



- 17 -
PART TWO
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary Assessments
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Achievement of Objectives                      Substantial                 Partial                Negliuibl            Not Applicable
Macro policies                                                                                                                 m
Sector policies                                    E                        E      
Financial objectives                                                          m                      E                          i
Institutional development                            m                                                 X                     EZr
Physical objectives                                  m                      I                           j                        I
Poverty reduction                                                             Z                          J                   E1!X
Gender issues                                                                                                                    J
Other social objectives
Public sector management                                                                               2                     1XL
Private sector development                                                                              J r  ,
Other
Project sustainabilitv                            Likely                  Unlike]                 Uncertain
Highly
Bank performance                               saisfactory              Satiactory                Deflcient
Identification                                    |                           m                        i
Preparation Assistance                                                        m
Appraisal                                            XIJ
Supervision                                       I                           X I
Highly
Borrower performance                           sat'sactory              Satisatory                 Defiien
Preparation                                       IX]
Implementation                                                                m
Covenant Compliance                                                         E   I
Operation (if applicable)                                                   r                       I   ]
Highly                                                                     Very
Assessment of outcome                          satsftory                Satisfactory           Unsatisfactorv           Unsatisfactorv
I                   lml    



- 18 -
Table 2: Other Bank Loans/Credits
Credit Title                Purpose          Year of Approval      Status
Previous Operations:
EDUCATION I (308-CA) and To support Secondary       November 11, 1980 Completed
EDUCATION I:               Education by providing                      December 1981
SUPPLEMENTAL               trained and qualified
FINANCING (1073-CA)        manpower.
EDUCATION 11 (1359-CA)   To strengthen the          May 11, 1983      Completed
Government's capacity for                  December 1988
education planning and
evaluation and
implementation of
education projects, and
improve the quality of
education in rural areas.
Operations Ongoing:
Basic Education Quality    PPF support for a possible  September 26,  Ongoing
Improvement                Education IV project:    1995
(P954-0)                   preparatory studies,
education statistics, pilot on
school sanitation in
Bangui, policy framework
Table 3: Schedule
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned        Actual Date/Estimate
Identification                      NA                     October 1986
Preparation                         NA                     February 1987
Appraisal                            March 1987            April 1987
Negotiations                         September 1987        October 1987
Letter of Sector Policy (if applicable)  NA                NA
Board Presentation                  November 1987          December 15, 1987
Signing                                                    January 25, 1988
Effectiveness                        January 1988          April 13, 1988
Midterm Review                      NA                     November 1992
Project Completion                   December 1994         April 96
Credit Closing                       December 31, 1994     December 31, 1995



- 19 -
Table 4: Disbursements: Planned and Actual
Cumulative Planned and Actual (in thousands of US$)
IDA Fiscal Year          1988    1989    1990   1991           1992   1993    1994    1995    1996
Planned                    400     1,050    3,310   6,420      9,830   13,710   17,360   18,000        --
Actual                     428      872    2,994   7,085    10,000   11,113    12,650   17,060   20,037
Actual as % of planned     106.9      83.0     90.5    110.4    101.7      81.1      72.9    94.8     111.3



- 20 -
Table 5: Performance Indicators: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
From Appraisal Report or President's
Memorandum (*)                                      Estimate     Actual                  Remarks
CONSTRUCTION
HOUSING: SCHOOL DIRECTORS
New                                              79             27     CPN: Insufficient cashflow.
Rehabilitated                                    24              4     As above
CLASSROOM CONSTRUCTION                          362           458
BANGUI                                          0            73     Successful cost control made it
OUAKA                                         168           194     possible to exceed the initial
MBOMOU                                        194           191     program and effect a number of
enclosures in Bangui.
OFFICE CONSTRUCTION                               0           121
BANGUI                                          0             6
OUAKA                                           0            82
MBOMOU                                          0            33
CLASSROOM REHABILITA TION                       521           510
BANGUI                                       311            322
OUAKA                                         135           142
MBOMOU                                         75            46
OFFICE REHABILITA TION                            0           114
BANGUI                                          0            98
OUAKA                                           0            16
MBOMOU                                          0             0
RENO VA TION OFACADEMIC                           3              3
INSPECTORA TES
BANGUI                                          I             I
BAMBARI                                         I             I
BANGASSOU                                       I             I
STORAGE FACILITIES: BANGUI,                        4             3     Including a new central facility in
BAMBARI, BANGASSOU, BOUAR                                              Bangui.
RENOVATION OF SCIENCE FACULTY                 As planned    Completed Need for renovation and
maintenance.
EXTENSION OF UNIVERSITY LIBRARY               As planned   Completed Need for maintenance (faulty
workmanship).
EQUIPMENT
TRANSPORTATION                                  107           111
Vehicles                                         27             38
Motorcycles and mopeds                           80             73
(*)Given that these reports do not define any indicators, this table shows the physical indicators established by the Project Coordination Unit for implementation
monitoring purposes.



- 21 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
From Appraisal Report or President's
Memorandum (*)                                     Estimate    Actual                  Remarks
COMPUTER HARD WARE
Ministry: PCs                                          9           14
Science Faculty: PCs                                  12          37
SCHOOL FURNITURE
BANGUI: Combined desks-benches                8,397      13,056  Targets exceeded as a result of
Repairs: fixed desks-benches              0         649  savings, as well as vandalism, this
Desks                                   311         684  being particularly marked in Bangui
Chairs                                 311          846  during and after the "lost years"
Movable Blackboards                       0          23  (annees blanches).
Cupboards                                 0         106
OUAKA
Combined desks-benches                8,181       6,817
Desks                                   303         303
Chairs                                  303         465
MBOUMOU
Combined desks-benches                7,263       5,975
Desks                                  269          302
Chairs                                  269         435
PEDAGOGICAL MATERIALS
Library books                                  7,500       7,500
Textbooks                                   430,000      670,000  56% above target, but with a 30% loss
during the "lost years"; i.e. about
460,000 actually provided for schools.
TRAINING, SEMINARS AND IN-SERVICE
TRAINING
Teachers: in-service training                      2,908        1,909  Target not achieved because of the
"lost years".
Directors: in-service training                       844         625  Wastage due to high turnover.
Inspectors: in-service training                      120          140
STUDY TRIPS ABROAD
Man-months                                           176          182
SPECIALIST SER VICES
Local consultants (man-months)                      1,320        988
International consultants (man-months)               146          139
Volontaires du Progres (man-months)                   72           89
United Nations Volunteers (man-months)               156          149
(*)Given that these reports do not define any indicators, this table shows the physical indicators established by the Project Coordination Unit for implementation
monitoring purposes.



- 22 -
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operation (*)
Project Impact to be
Maintained             Actions Being Taken           Issues Remaining            Actions Planned
Continue increasing share   Identified as priority for  Following slow increases,   No plan of operations as of
of national budget         sector policy, and item to be   a large decrease in 1996  the date of this report.
allocated to education.    monitored under Action       budget.                    Future actions to be
Plan.                                                   defined as work in the
sector progresses.
Continue increasing share   Identified as priority for  Decrease.                  As above.
of education budget        sector policy, and item to be
allocated to Primary       monitored under Action
Education.                 Plan.
Continue reducing share of  National Scholarship Service  Project objective not    As above.
education budget allocated   fully operational.         achieved. Failure to
to scholarships.                                        properly match training to
Emphasize science-based                                 labor-market demand.
subjects.
Maintain stock of          Increase in budget for       Considerable losses from   As above.
textbooks and teachers'    pedagogical materials.       initial stock, and
guides.                                                 inadequate budget
allocation. No
consideration given to
methods of distribution
and management.
Maintain newly             Distribution of maintenance   Continuation of           FNAPEC is making the
constructed and renovated   guides. Consciousness-      establishment of           practical arrangements for
schools.                   raising among communities   management boards; the      developing the
by the URCESs. The EGE       suspension of the activities  maintenance system.
has submitted                of the URCESs may          DCES will prepare the
recommendations on the role  compromise this action.    infrastructure inventory,
of the APEs and communes.                               with PPF support.
Maintain standards of      Implementation of SDA        Because of the             Experiments with other
qualification of teachers so   project, to compensate for  student/teacher ratio   forms of in-service
as to ensure satisfactory  inadequate number of         (80/1), it impossible to   training, with PPF support.
quality of Primary         teachers produced by basic    reap the full benefit of
Education.                 training courses.            training.
Provide for school         No new action to offset the    The turnover of directors    No plan of operations as of
supervision through trained  turnover of directors trained   is caused partly because    the date of this report.
directors.                 under the project.           there are no official      Future actions to be
regulations to govern this   defined as work in the
type of position.          sector progresses.
Maintain administrative    Computer specialist to be    The losses of technical    As above.
and management capacity   kept in the unit, with PPF    expertise caused by the
at central level.          support (18 months).         rate of turnover have not
been adequately offset.
(*) The Appraisal Report does not include any special table of indicators for project operation. The table identifies key items that the project has contributed and
that should be maintained if the objective of providing support for the Sector Adjustment Plan is to be achieved.



- 23 -
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Purpose of Study
Study         (Appraisal/Redefined)            Status           Impact on the Project
School          Preparation of plans:      Study completed prior to   Ensured that proper
infrastructure  materials and methods.     Credit effectiveness.    methods were applied and
Amended during project   that construction costs
implementation.         were kept under control.
School          Preparation of maintenance   Study carried out at   The fundamental
maintenance      guide, by type of building.   beginning of project  document for establishing
implementation and      the community system of
subsequently revised.   school maintenance.
University       Survey of the professional    Carried out at beginning    Provided arguments in
careers of university     of project.              support of the
graduates.                                         prioritization of science-
based subjects.
University       Study of the relationship  Only the first phase of the  None. The complete
between current training and  study was carried out (i.e.  study would make it
employment.               the survey of the public    possible to design training
and private sectors).   programs of short
duration.
Table SA: Project Costs (IDA Credit) (in nillions of SDRs)
Appraisal Estimate '                 Actual t
Local     Foreign              Local      Foreign
Item             Currency  Exchange   Total   Currency  Exchange   Total
1. Civilworks                                      3.21                             5.59
2. Furniture                                        1.15                            0.74
3. Equipment and vehicles                          0.99                             1.43
4. Pedagogical materials                            1.30                            1.57
5. Consultants                                     3.05                             2.74
6. Training                                        2.43                             1.06
7. Operating costs                                 0.75                             0.78
8. Unallocated                                     1.22                             0.00
SA-A UBAC C=6330081014                             0.00                             0.19
Total (IDA Credit)                                 14.10                           14.10
Sources: (*) Credit Agreement. (**) LOAAF.



- 24 -
Table 8B: Project Financing (in millions of US$)
Appraisal Estimate                      Actual
Source            Local    Foreign                  Local    Foreign
Currency  Exchange    Total    Currency  Exchange    Total
IDA                         6.30      11.70      18.00                            20.80
UNDP  and  Association    0.00         0.14       0.14                             0.14
fran9aise des volontaires du
progres
Communities                 1.23                  1.23                             1.23
Government                  1.34         --       1.34                             1.34
Total             8.88      11.84      20.72                            23.51
Source: (*) Appraisal Report (October 1987).
Remarks: The Costab results from the Appraisal Report (October 1987) and the summary by the
Project Coordination Unit (December 1995) could not be used to check the details of foreign
exchange and local costs, because the data headings did not match.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No efforts were made to estimate the net present value of project investments. The preliminary
studies focused on unit costs, private and social rates of return for the various levels of education,
the financial implications of education policy (in the form of simulations), and the savings
generated by the project. However, the overall lack of education statistics made it impossible to
arrive at any quantitative assessment of these estimates, and the social disturbances that resulted in
the period known as the "lost years" introduced factors that would have made it difficult to
identify the project's economic effects, even if complete statistics had been available.



- 25 -
Table 10: Compliance with Legal Covenants
DCA      Covenant    Present    Original       Revised
Reference    Type        Status    Fulfillment  Fulfillmen
Date        Date         Description of Covenant                  Comments
3.01      4,5,10        CP                              Borrower's commitment and         The project was implemented with due
quarterly deposits of counterpart  diligence and efficiency, although hindere
funds.                           by inadequate counterpart funds. The
overcommitment at the end of the project
was due to the premature departure of the
Administrator.
3.02       5,10         C                               Procurement governed by provisions  Complied with.
of Schedule 3.
3.03         5          CP                              PCU in accordance with Schedule 5.  Complied with, except at the end of
project, when the Administrator left
during the four-month grace period.
3.04(a)     11,12         C        08/31/95              Action Plan and annual adjustment.   Compliance until 1995, the adjustment
for 1995 being received on August 31 of
that year.
3.04(b)     11,12         C        01/31/88              Action Plan Monitoring Committee.   Committee established and maintained.
3.04(c)     11,12        CD        09/30/95              Regular reviews of Action Plan, held  The 1996 review was made part of the
jointly with IDA.                sector PER.
3.04(d)     11,12        CP                              Follow-up to annual reviews.      Constantly hindered by the
socioeconomic circumstances.
3.05       11,12        CP        12/31/94              Sufficient budgetaiy allocations for   As of 1995, education accounted for
the education sector; increases in the   about 15% of the government budget.
share of funds allocated for Primary   Of these objectives, Primary Education
Education from 52% to 60%, and for  was off-target by 5014 educational
educational materials from 2% to 8%; materials by 2.60%, and scholarships by
reduction in funds allocated for  4.2%.
higher education scholarships from
16% to 8%.
3.06        11          CD       08/31/95               IDA to be furnished with the draft    Complied with. These procedures have
three-year rolling investment budget,  now been incorporated into the overall
the draft annual recurrent budget for   public expenditure review
the upcoming Fiscal Year, and the
annual program for classroom
rehabilitation.
3.07        12          CP       06/30/93               Nonteaching staff not to exceed 7%    218 members of staff redeployed in
of MEN's overall payroll.        1993, but nonteaching members still total
8.8%/.
3.08        12          CP        09/30/93              Community-based maintenance       Preparations completed. The parents'
system to be applied to all primary    reactions have been unenthusiastic. This
schools covered by the project.  component must be strengthened during
follow-up operations and as part of
community-based development efforts.
3.09        10          NC        12/31/90              Borrower to carry out a study to  Unfinished; to be incorporated into
determine the adequacy of the higher  upcoming sector work.
education system with regard to the
labor market and submit the results
and recommendations to IDA.
3.10         3          CP                              Borrower to furnish to IDA the    The qualifications were provided, but the
qualifications of the candidates for    services of a small number of recipients
fellowships, and to secure the   were not secured as planned.
services of fellowship recipients for at
least three years.



- 26 -
4.01         1           C                                Annual audits of records and      Complied with. The auditors expressed
accounts, together with semi-annual   qualified opinions in 1991, but these
audits of expenditures.           were withdrawn in 1992.
Schedule 5      5           C                                Project staff to be acceptable to IDA.  Very competent staff appointed and
(Al, 2)                                                                                        maintained.
Schedule 5      9           C                                Membership  of the Action  Plan  The same members served  on  the
(BI)                                                      Monitoring Committee.             Committee throughout the project.
Key to Table 10
Covenant Class                                            Status
I .   Account/audit                                                 C   = Complied with
2.   Financial performance/generation of revenue                    CD  = Compliance after delay
(beneficiaries)
3.   Flow and utilization of Project funds                          CP  = Complied with partially
4.   Counterpart funding                                            NC  = Not complied with
5.   Management aspects of the Project or of its executing
agency
6.   Environmental covenants
7.   Involuntary resettlement
8.   Indigenous people
9.   Monitoring, review and reporting
10.  Implementation
11.  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
allocation
12.  Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13.  Other
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Directives
Statement Number and Title                     |       Comment on Lack of Compliance
| Implementation complied with all Operational Manual statements.



- 27 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff
Stage of Project Cycle       Planned               Revised                 Actual
Weeks      US$       Weeks        US$       Weeks    US$ ('000)
Through Appraisal            NA        NA         NA          NA         97.0
Appraisal through  Board     NA        NA         NA          NA         39.2
Approval
Board  Approval through      NA        NA         NA          NA         NA          NA
Effectiveness
Supervision                  NA        NA         NA          NA        138.5
Completion                   NA        NA         NA          NA         8.9
Total                        NA        NA         NA          NA        283.6



- 28 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of Project Cycle         Month       # of      Staff    Specialized   Implementa-         Project       Type of
/Year   persons   Days in    Staff Skills        tion        Development   Problem
Field    Represented      Progress        Impact
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through Board Approval
Board       Approval        through
Effectiveness
Supervision                             05/88       1          10          ES               Workshop to launch project
..                                   10/88      4           11        ES, A            I              I
.,                                   03/89       1           8          A             F. 590 missing (UNESCO mission)
it                                   04/89       1           8         ES                       F.590 missing
05/89      1           3          ES                  Action Plan relaunched
06/89      1                      ES
10/89      1          11          ES                       F.590 missing
11/89      1           8          ES               Annual Review of Action Plan
06/90      2           5      RA, A/PIS           2              2       L,M,P,T
..                                   03/91       1          19        A/PIS            2              2       L,M,P,T
..                                   04/91       1           6       PO, ES            2              3       L,M,P,T
10/91      2           7      PO, A/PIS           3             3  L,F,P,T,TA,S,M
,,                                   02/92       1                   ES, PO            3              3  L,F,P,T,TA,S
06/92      1                      PO              4              4   L,F,P,M
Midterm Review (Wash. D.C.)              11/92
Supervision                             01/94       2          23      A/PIS, ES                    F.590 missing
07/94      3           9       A/PIS, ES          S              S   L,F,P,T,TA,S
12/94      1          10        A/PIS             S              S        F,P,S,L
07/95      3           9       A/PIS, ES          S              S        F,P,S,L
Completion (Last Supervision)           12/95       1           7        A/PIS             S              S          F, P, S, L
ICR                                     03/96       1          12          A               S              S
Specialized Staff Skills Represented:                      Types of Problem
A     Architect                                            0       Overall status
E     Economist                                            F        Fund availability
EP    Educational Planner                                  M       Management
ES    Education Specialist                                 S        Studies progress
FS    Financial Specialist                                 TA      Technical Assistance progress
GE   General Educator                                      L        Compliance with legal covenants
PIS   Project Implementation Specialist                    T       Training progress
PO    Project Officer                                      P       Procurement progress
RA   Research Assistant                                    E       Environmental aspects
TS    Textbook Specialist (Technical Specialist)
Performance Ratings
I     Problem-free or minor problems                       3       Major problems with solution underway
2     Moderate problems                                    4        Major problems without solution underway



- 29 -
SPECIAL ANNEX
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING IN THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
1.     Table 1 analyzes progress made in the project's main objectives:20
Table 1: Average Success by Type of Objective
Category                            Number          Average
Construction                            4              5.00
Supply of resources                     8              4.13
Training                               12              3.92
Institutional strengthening            44              2.64
2.     The results vary, depending on the sector in which the project was implemented. Table 2
indicates that the results were better in higher education than in primary education and the
corresponding units in MENRST. Although the training programs were relatively successful,
efforts to bring about changes in the behavior of the beneficiaries (parents and their organization,
FNAPEC) and in administrative procedures and routines were failures. It appears that the university
was better able to absorb institutional strengthening. Primary education, on the other hand, is so
weak that even when resources are provided, the results are only mediocre.
Table 2: Evaluation of Project Results
Averages, by Type of Objective and Sector
Sector              Training   Institutional   Construction  Resources   Total
l __________________________   _________   Strengthening  __
Higher Education                               4.33           5.00         5.00       3.71
University administration         5.00         4.00                        5.00       4.29
Project Coordination Unit (PCU)                3.00                                   3.00
Primary Education                 3.78         2.21           5.00        3.60        2.95
Administration (MENRST)           4.00         2.18                                   2.46
Total                            3.92         2.64           5.00        4.13        3.18
3.     The PCU's mediocre performance is surprising, since the results obtained were due to its
excellent management. However, the PCU's institutional-strengthening objectives were particularly
ambitious with respect to MENRST, and their success depended to a considerable extent on a
number of senior officials developing a sense of "ownership" of those objectives.
Based on the Government's detailed report, we have analyzed the success of the project's specific objectives. We
have evaluated the objectives on a scale from zero (unsuccessful) to 5 (fully successful). Naturally, there is a
measure of subjectivity in this method. The costs of each objective could be identified through a more detailed
analysis.



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(EDUCATION III PROJECT, CREDIT 1863-CAR)
IDA Mission, March 7 to 19, 1996
Aide-Memoire
1.    The consultant, Mr. Rene Lecysyn (Architect and Project Implementation Specialist) visited
the Central African Republic on an IDA mission (Population and Human Resources Sector, Central
Africa and Indian Ocean Department) from March 7 to 19, 1996. The objectives were as follows:
(a) to compile the information necessary for preparing the IDA Implementation Completion Report
for Education Project III; (b) to obtain the Borrower's contribution to the report; and (c) to obtain
the final audit report on the project's accounts.
2.    Mr. Lecysyn was received by Mr. Albert Mberio, the Minister of National Education,
Scientific Research and Technology, in the presence of Mr. David Zokoe, the Secretary of State, to
whom he explained the objectives of his mission and made introductory remarks for inclusion in
the Implementation Completion Report.
3.    Working sessions were held in the Project Coordination Unit, particularly with Mr. Jacques-
Paulin Regner, the Director, and Mr. Guy J. Malembeti, the Project Administrator, who
accompanied the consultant throughout the mission. Meetings were organized with current and
former directors and staff responsible for the various directorates, institutions, and agencies that
have been stakeholders in project preparation and implementation, and with Mr. Wenezoui, the
Charg6 de Mission au Cabinet. A meeting was also held with Mr. Mandaba, the Chairman of the
Action Plan Monitoring Committee. Visits were paid to schools rehabilitated under the project,
accompanied by the Bangui URCES Architect-Coordinator. Field visits were also made to the
Bangui Vakaga Academic Inspectorate and two Primary School Inspectorates 1 in Bangui. Finally,
a short meeting was held with AFVP and UNDP, which had contributed to implementation of the
project's rehabilitation component.
4.    The activities made it possible to collect analytical data and overall information for
evaluating the project on the basis of the initial objectives and the components that had been
implemented. The quantitative indicators had already been updated by the PCU and collated at the
time of the final supervision and credit closing mission in December 1995. The annual update of
the sector Action Plan was carried out in August 1995.
5.    The consultant's report, which will be forwarded to IDA with the Borrower's contribution,
will contain the following provisional findings and conclusions, inter alia:



- 31 -
Achievement of Objectives
6.    As reported by the final IDA supervision and credit closing mission, most of the various
project components were implemented, with quantitative expectations exceeded in the
construction/rehabilitation and textbook supply categories. The final construction activities and
deliveries of school furniture should be completed, as planned, by the end of April. The grace
period for the final disbursements of the credit was set as April 30, 1996 during the credit closing
mission.
Main Factors Affecting the Project
(a) In-service training was provided for just over one half of the teachers, chiefly because of the
"lost years" and the need to ensure that classes would continue while teachers were away on
training courses.
(b) Strengthening technical and professional management and planning capacity in the central
directorates, particularly through computerization of procedures, supplemented with
specific training, was not fully completed, chiefly owing to the turnover of trained staff.
(c) The study on matching training to jobs reached the point of producing a monograph on the
situation in the labor market, but was not completed by the presentation of proposals that
might have influenced policy on the various university study tracks. Undoubtedly, this was
because different priorities emerged in the interim.
Project Sustainability
(a) Good maintenance and security of the rehabilitated school infrastructure will depend on the
development of a community-based maintenance system. It should be made clear that
specific conditions apply to mobilization in urban areas, and that the buildings belong to the
local authorities.
(b) Maintenance of the current textbook/pupils ratio, which is below the project target because
of losses during the "lost years", will depend on decisions as to how stocks are to be
distributed, managed and renewed, and on security in urban schools. The APEs can play a
role in these two issues.
(c) Maintenance of the standard of study and work conditions, and of the operational standards
of the equipment and vehicles that the project has specifically helped restore and strengthen
(particularly as these allow for the resumption of regular visits by school inspectors, a
necessary step in the decentralization process), will in future depend on increases in
government spending on education, as indicated in the covenants to the Credit Agreement.
These issues continue to be of concern to the Monitoring Committee.



- 32 -
Future Operation and Lessons Learned
7.    With regard to future operation, the report will describe the preparatory activities already
defined under the PPF financing provided in 1995 for 18 months, and will mention the key lessons
learned from Education III. These lessons emphasize the effectiveness to be derived from
maintaining a stable membership in project implementation teams, the importance of sound project
"ownership" on the part of sector agencies, the importance of gathering and developing information
and its dissemination, and the need to protect urban schools from theft and vandalism (by using
fences or other devices) and to provide sanitary installations (i.e. water supply and latrines).
8.    Following the mission to Bangui, the IDA report will be written by the consultant and
forwarded to IDA with the Borrower's contribution. IDA will then send the report to the Borrower
for comment. The final audit report -- which can be completed only after the final settlements are
made for activities now being finalized -- will be sent subsequently to IDA by the Borrower. The
final Implementation Completion Report must be submitted to the IDA Board by June 30, 1996.
9.    The consultant, Mr. Rene Lecysyn, wishes to thank the authorities and the ministry and
PCU officials for their welcome, and for their cooperation and all the assistance they provided to
facilitate his mission.
Bangui, March 19, 1996
Albert Mberio                                    Rene Lecysyn,
Minister of National Education,                  IDA Consultant
Scientific Research and
Technology



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
BORROWER'S PROJECT EVALUATION
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
AND THE CONTEXT FOR IMPLEMENTATION
The project context was marked by:
(a) The negative impact of the Structural Adjustment Program: a drop in real per capita
income, no increase in real terms in spending on health and education, and a mass
exodus of teachers under the Assisted Voluntary Departures program;
(b) social movements from October 1990 to July 1993, which seriously disrupted
school activities (the "lost years");
(c) devaluation of the CFAF, producing an impact on imported materials used in school
construction and on the cost of textbooks.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  IMPROVEMENT OF PRIMARY EDUCATION
Objective: The in-service training of primary teachers was particularly intended to
improve the quality of existing teachers, prior to the introduction of reforms. It also offered
a cost-effective alternative to the exclusive use of fully qualified teachers.
1.    Improvements in Teacher Quality
Quantitative Results
*   1,436 teachers, assistant teachers, agents superieurs, and agents d'enseignement
received in-service training, compared with the planned 2,908 (49%).
*   625 out of 845 school directors received training (74%).
*   700 community and village workers were also trained. The training was essential in
light of local conditions.
*   514 teachers benefited from distance learning.



- 34 -
Obstacles: The planning of short courses was seriously disrupted by the events affecting
the community from 1990 to 1993 and the suspension of the credit for about one year.
There was large turnover of school directors.
Contributing factor: The success of this component was due to the high professionalism
of its managers and effective French technical assistance at CNFC (the National In-service
Training Center) and the CPRs (Regional Pedagogy Centers).
B.  IMPROVEMENTS IN THE SCHOOL ENVIRONMENT AND
SCHOOL REHABILITATION
(a)   Teaching Materials
Objective: The goal was to increase the number of suitable textbooks supplied to schools
and to ensure a continuous supply.
Contributing factor: Specifications were prepared prior to the preparation of bidding
documents. Of the 66 bids examined, 27 were accepted. This task was successful thanks to
a good evaluation team. The component was well managed, from the call for bids to
distribution. The competitive bidding procedure made it possible to control the cost of the
books.
Obstacles: The main problem was the preservation of the stock of books in the schools.
The fact that they were supplied free of charge did not encourage the APEs or the
authorities to establish policies for renewing the initial stock.
(b)   Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Primary Schools
Quantitative Objectives
1.    Achievements
The quantitative objectives are based on implementation of a regional program in
several stages, to bring about the renovation, replacement, expansion, and equipping of
about 880 classrooms, with community participation.
(i) Classroom construction/rehabilitation: 431 classrooms and 91 offices/ storage
facilities were built, out of a planned 362 (i.e. 119%, plus the supplementary
offices/storage facilities). 510 classrooms were renovated, compared with the
planned 521 (97%).
(ii) Construction/rehabilitation of housing for directors:  27 units were built,
compared with the planned 80 (33%), and only four were rehabilitated, out of a
planned 20.



- 35 -
(iii) Furniture: About 903 classrooms were equipped, compared with the planned 883
(102%).
(iv) School supplies: Supplies were provided for all the classrooms in the plan (883:
100%).
(v) Fences (Bangui): Although they were not initially planned, devaluation made it
possible to provide fences (six fences with a total length of 1,780 meters were
built).
(vi) Tool kits: All the schools received these as planned (214: 100%).
(vii) Maintenance guides: The 3,000 guides planned were published and distributed.
(viii) Emergency actions: These were applied in the case of 27 of the planned 80
classrooms. The quality of work was generally good.
2.    Costs (US$1.00 = CFAF 500)
(i) Construction: Construction costs (Bangui) rose from US$3,292 per classroom to
US$9,792; the cost of housing, with local financing, rose from US$5,400 to
US$7,000. The increases were due to structural modifications and devaluation.
(ii) Rehabilitation: Only the cost estimates for Bangui were too low (US$416 per
classroom). By the end of the project, the cost was about US$2,400.
(iii) Furniture: The cost rose from US$887 per classroom to US$1,458.
(iv) School supplies for teachers: US$6.00 per classroom.
(v) Tool kits: On the basis of US$1.00 = CFAF 500, the cost of providing a school
with a tool kit was US$48.00.
(vi) Cost per school place: US$139 (construction plus furniture plus tool kit).
(vii) Cost per classrooms: US$11,214 (construction plus furniture, without tool kit).
Qualitative Objectives: The qualitative objectives were to upgrade organizations and
agencies so that the progress represented by the project could be achieved, safeguarded, and
made sustainable.
(i) Strengthening and decentralization of DCES through the establishment of
URCESs and the provision of computer hardware. Some of the staff trained were
assigned elsewhere. The positive contributions made by United Nations Volunteers
and the Volontaires du progres should be noted.



- 36 -
(ii) Regular/preventive maintenance system: Teachers and parents did not receive
sufficient training for these responsibilities to be permanently transferred to them.
(iii) Parent and community involvement (through participation in the project).
Participation in some schools was good, but a permanent training and monitoring
team should be established. There are still problems with management and
confidence in some APEs.
(iv) School inventory: This was not implemented, because of a shortage of DCES
staff. However, it has been possible to install a computerized system for data input.
(v) Search for a suitable technology: This was to be based on the use of inexpensive
materials and participation by the communities. The experience was satisfactory in
that the final products were solid and comfortable, and evidence was also provided
of the actual availability of such materials, the local authorities' capacity for
protecting their own assets, and the scope for securing their participation.
Problems:
Quantitative Objectives:
(i) Lengthy bidding procedures;
(ii) limited technical and financial management capacity on the part of certain
enterprises for carrying out works on schedule;
(iii) continual modifications of prototypes;
(iv) shortage of skilled workers in rural areas (for carrying out works on force account);
(v) government budgets not prepared on time;
(vi) political transitions (a long series of strikes);
(vii) communication difficulties between the central Government and the decentralized
services (UIRCES);
(viii) repeated interruptions of the project; and
(ix) high rates of vandalism in urban schools.
Qualitative Objectives:
(i) Ignorance of the qualitative objectives on the part of academic administrators;
(ii) lack of involvement of the URCES's in in-service teacher training;



- 37 -
(iii) poor functioning of the National Federation of APEs;
(iv) heavy responsibilities of the URCESs, making it impossible to closely monitor
consciousness-raising and the mobilization of APEs and local authorities;
(v) failure to become operational on the part of the Standards and Methods Bureau
(Service des normes et techniques) of DCES; and
(vi) frequent reassignments and replacements of academic administrators.
CONCLUSIONS/RECOMMENDATIONS
In general, the performance rate was about 80%, thanks to cooperation between the
Project Coordination Unit, DCES, and the coordinating body for the URCESs, which
performed its duties satisfactorily. However, the following recommendations are prompted
by the lessons learned:
(i) Continue to decentralize and strengthen DCES, systematically involving it in the
basic and in-service training of teachers, and promote the recruitment of architects
to work in the URCES's;.
(ii) in overall project planning, give consideration to the time required for
consciousness-raising and mobilization by establishing a unit with responsibility for
information, consciousness-raising, and mobilization; also take account of the
length of bidding procedures;
(iii) organize regular working sessions with academic inspectors, primary school
inspectors (IEF 1), and pedagogical advisors, to monitor the preventive maintenance
system though seminars or teachers' notes on the maintenance of their schools, and -
- particularly -- to ensure that they keep project objectives in mind;
(iv) provide substantial assistance for FNAPEC;
(v) exempt civil works from suspensions stemming from the failure to comply with
certain conditionalities included in the Action Plan agreed between the Government
and the Bank;
(vi) reduce the frequency  of reassignments of teaching  staff and  academic
administrators;
(vii) install an effective communications systems for the URCES's;
(viii) build fences and latrines for the schools.



- 38 -
3.    Improvements in School Inspection
Objective: To improve teaching effectiveness.
Results: All the training seminars planned for primary school inspectors (IEF 1) and
academic inspectors were held, and the participants were provided with logistical support,
as planned. A standard inspection report was designed.
Obstacles: The benefits of the training were undermined by the high staff turnover,
affecting both primary school and high school inspectors. The central Governrment is
reluctant to delegate its powers to decentralized agencies.
Contributing factor: The decision-maker regards decentralization as essential.
C.  IMPROVEMENTS IN THE EDUCATIONAL ENVIRONMENT AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF BANGUI
Objective: To help the university adapt to the needs of the labor market while providing
the means for improving the quality of higher education.
Results: The university library was extended, and 7,500 new titles were purchased. The
Amphitheater and laboratories of the Science and Technology Faculty were rehabilitated.
As planned, the project provided personal computers, equipment, and chemicals.
Contributing factors: Project support for the university has made it possible to identify
suitable areas for short training courses (i.e. electricity, electronics, agriculture, stock-
raising, and water and forest management).
D.    IMPROVEMENTS IN ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCIAL
MANAGEMENT IN THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
1.    Human Resource Management
Objectives: implementation of public administration reform by improving personnel
management.
Results: A dBASE database was used to identify and locate all personnel in the education
sector.
Obstacles: The enormous mobility of management staff and the erratic updating of files
adversely affected the sustainability this component.
2.    Financial and Physical Resource Management
Objectives: To improve the allocation and management of these resources.



- 39 -
Results: The activities performed (i.e. training and the supply of equipment) did not help
improve the quality of services.
Obstacle: It was difficult to bring about changes in behavior.
Contributing factor: Nonetheless, at the end of the project the staff concerned expressed
an interest in the computerization of financial management.
E.    STRENGTHENING THE OPERATIONAL RESOURCES OF SABS, AND
PREPARATION OF A FUTURE PROJECT
Objectives: To reduce the social costs of higher education.
Results: SABS has been strengthened, and its system for monitoring scholarship-holders
has been improved through computerization.
Obstacle: The scholarship quota system has not been applied.
Contributing factor: The Ministry has become aware of the burden on the Government's
education budget represented by the financial cost of university scholarships.
F.    PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
Objectives: To ensure that the necessary institutional and administrative steps are taken for
successful project implementation.
Results: The various members of the project team remained in their positions throughout
project implementation, enabling the physical components to be properly implemented.
Obstacles:
* Mobility of component managers; misperceptions of the project as being "owned"
exclusively by the World Bank.
* The considerable complexity of the project.
Contributing factors:  A good team spirit at management level, and between the
management and the partners.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
* The credit became effective on April 13, 1988. The project did not encounter any
major difficulties with regard to procurement procedures.



- 40 -
* The management staffremained in their positions throughoutthe project.
* The credit was suspended from July 8, 1992, to March 30, 1994 because of
noncompliance with performance indicators (relating to spending on university
scholarships).
BANK PERFORMANCE
* Two or three supervisionmissionstook place each year. These were effective, since
difficulties and serious problems were solved during them (e.g. relating to
procurement).
* At the beginning of the project, the disbursement office took two or three days to
approve expenditures, replenish accounts, and make direct payments to suppliers;
from 1993, from seven to 14 days were necessary.
* At the beginning of the project, it took 15 days to make direct payments to
suppliers; from 1993, this period ranged from 30 days to 45 days.
CONCLUSION
Overall, and despite the project's complexity and the social crises, implementation
was good, thanks to:
* The stable membership of the project team;
* the continued involvement of the Bank's architect.



IEED 28596
NIGER           CHAD                                                                                  20-                                                                             25
NIGERIASUOAN    j                                                                                                                                     N.                                CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
,UEI  /    \          __IR W6.   1-<                                                                                                 X'\1a
r'J   ,      ~~CENTRAL                          5____
AFRICAN REPU LIC                                                                                                                                                                             PRIMARY ROADS
!  e  s    AFRICANA N  REPUBLICC    H   A    D                                                                                                     A         j                                           ROuTEs PRINCIPALES
CA.EROON                                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECONDARY ROADS
ROUTES SECONDAIRES
-OTHER ROADS
.2                               ~~~~~~~~~~~AUTRES ROUTES
('CAGOa                                                                                                                                         . Odo                                         -..     RIVERS
GA8014                                                                                                                                                 FL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PEUVES
-.-                                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECTOR/IDOTRICT HEADQUARTERS
A-                                                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHEFS-DIEUX DES SECTEURS/REOION5
Alb.A,\ - J f ZAIRE t ING E g ANN r/_ > 0 < s PROVINCE/PREFECTURE CAPITALS
CAPITALES DES PROI VNCESIPREFECTURES
PROVINCE/PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
LIMITES DES PROVINCESIPREFECTUSRES
T. Nlc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-_ ~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIEONAL BOUNDARIES
?  \..~~~~~           FRONTIERES INTRNATIONASES
8 A  > ;                       Y t  z F   A H A U T E
EAN, r  M 3   0M_OU )     GUI
Gobo6o          Mdo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UK                                                                                                      
< __ro_ /~~~~~~ *= R '9Moomio e7 Z A I R E o so~~~~~~~~~~ 0                                                            5      T    loT s   200    550 KILOMTETRS 
EC i                            o 
IS'  |  */    ,   /                                                        %                               25'                                                     IEE2UAEY 199;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERUR l0






I



IMAGING
Report No.:          16304
Type:     ICR



