Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1863 CA
(Education Rehabilitation and Development Project)
between
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 25, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1863 CA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 25, 1988, between CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations Development 
Program (UNDP) a grant (the UNDP Grant) in an amount of one hundred thousand dollars 
to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the UNDP Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and UNDP;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.O1. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence  of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.O2. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"MEN" means the Ministere de l'Education Nationale of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(d)
"INRAP" means Institut National de la Recherche et de l'Animation 
Pedagogique, an agency of the Borrower responsible for carrying out pedagogical 
research and support activities;
(e)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit referred to in Section 3.03 of 
this Agreement;
(f)
"SAB" means Service Autonome des Bourses, an agency of the Borrower 
responsible for scholarship management;
(g)
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower;
 
(h)
"Action Plan" means the three-year Action Plan, including any annual 
adjustment to said Action Plan as referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement; and
(i)
"APMC" means the Action Plan Monitoring Committee referred to in Section 
3.04 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million and  one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 14,100,000).
Section 2.O2. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the  Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions  satisfactory to 
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the  Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994, or such  later date 
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
Page  3
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the  
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.O5. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal  amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower  shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments  payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing March 15, 1998, and ending September 15, 2027. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 15, 2007, shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter  shall 
be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for  
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the  Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof 
by the Executive Directors of the Association and  after due consideration by them of 
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not  yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, 
the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal 
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in 
the judgment of the Association, such  revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned  repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to  paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested  by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.O8. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified  for the 
purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MEN under the overall coordination of PCU with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and education 
management practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction to the provisions of paragraph (a) 
above, the Borrower shall: (i) establish in a commercial bank a Project Account to be 
used exclusively by the Project Unit to cover expenditures for the Project not 
financed out of the Proceeds of the Credit; (ii) deposit therein an initial amount of 
Page  4
CFAF 15,000,000; and (iii) thereafter deposit in said account on the first day of each 
calendar quarter such amounts as shall be required by PCU to meet the cost of the 
Project not financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during said quarter.
Section 3.O2. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain PCU during the execution of the 
Project with the responsibilities, powers, services and facilities specified in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.04. In order to carry out the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
submit to the Association: (i) a three-year Action Plan satisfactory to 
the Association; and (ii) by August 31 of each year, an annual adjustment to said 
Action Plan, satisfactory to the Association, detailing the activities to be carried 
out during that year and the budget proposals related thereto;
(b)
by January 31, 1988, establish and thereafter maintain APMC which shall 
assist the Borrower to follow-up on the implementation of the Action  Plan in 
accordance with the modalities set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(c)
by September 30 of each year review with the Association the progress 
achieved by the Borrower in implementing the Action Plan; and
(d)
upon completion of the review referred to in paragraph (c) above, take 
all measures required on the part of the Borrower to promptly carry out the 
recommendations of said review.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall each year the Project is being implemented:
(a)
appropriate  for  the  education  sector sufficient budgetary allocations 
satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
increase the funds allocated: (i) for primary education by 1.2 percent 
per annum; and (ii) for education materials by 0.8 percent per annum so that by 
December 31, 1994, the aggregate
share of funds allocated for primary education and for education materials shall be 
increased respectively from 52 percent to 60 percent and from 2 percent to 8 percent 
of the budget appropriated for the education sector; and
(c)
reduce the  funds  allocated  for higher education scholarship by 1.4 
percent per annum so that by December 31, 1994, the aggregate share of funds allocated 
for said scholarship shall be decreased from 16 percent  to 8 percent of the budget 
appropriated for the education sector.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) by August 31 of each year furnish to the 
Association: (i) the draft three-year rolling investment budget for the education 
sector; (ii) the draft annual
recurrent budget for the upcoming Fiscal Year; and (iii) the draft annual program for 
classrooms rehabilitation; and
(b)
take into account the  comments formulated by the Association on said 
draft budgets and program.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all measures required to redeploy MEN's 
staff so as to ensure that by June 30, 1993, the number of non-teaching staff shall 
not exceed 7 percent of MEN's
overall payroll.
Section 3.08. The  Borrower  shall  develop the school maintenance system 
referred to under Part A.2 (e) of the Project and require all primary schools covered 
under the Project to maintain their facilities in accordance with said maintenance 
system as from September 30, 1989.
Page  5
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall carry out the study referred to under Part D.2 
of the Project and submit the results and recommendations of said study to the 
Association for its review
and comments by December 31, 1990.
Section 3.10. (a) Before awarding any fellowship for training under the Project, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its approval the qualifications of 
the candidates for such fellowship.
(b)
The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to secure the services of 
fellowship recipients for at least three years in the positions for which they shall 
have been trained.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound  accounting  
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
have the account referred in subparagraph (i) above audited 
semi-annually for 
each fiscal year in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association and 
furnish the 
report of such interim audit to the Association no later than one 
month 
after its completion;
(iii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
 
(iv)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(v)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
Page  6
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified:
(a)
Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the right of the Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the UNDP grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor.
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such suspension, cancellation, or 
termination is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.O1. The  following  events  are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the following experts have been employed:
 
(i)
the Deputy to the Project Director;
 
(ii)
the textbook management consultant;
 
(iii)
(3) regional school construction specialists; and
 
(iv)
1 Procurement Specialist;
 
(b)
the UNDP Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness, except for the effectiveness of this 
Agreement have been fulfilled; and 
(c)
the Project Account referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement has 
been established, and the initial deposit of CFAF 15,000,000 has been made therein.
Section 6.02. The date ninety days (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Economy, Finance and 
Planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.O3 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.O2. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.O1 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
P.O. Box 696
Bangui
Central African Republic
Page  7
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIPLAN 5208 
RC
Bangui
Bangui
 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
44OO98 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Christian Lingama-Toleque
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Caio K. Koch-Weser
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                 3,210,000       100%
     except for
     school directors'
     housing
(2)  Furniture                   1,150,000       100%
(3)  Equipment and                 990,000       100%
     vehicles
Page  8
(4)  Pedagogical                 1,300,000       100%
     materials
(5)  Consultants'                3,050,000       100%
     services
(6)  Training                    2,430,000       100%
(7)  Operating Costs               750,000       90% up to
                                                 December 31, 1989;
  70% up to December 
  31, 1991; and
                                                 50% thereafter
(8)  Unallocated                 1,220,000
      _________
          TOTAL                 14,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs" means expenditures 
(except for staff salaries other than those for Project support staff) incurred by the 
Borrower under the Project for items such as office supplies, fuel, vehicle 
maintenance, travel and subsistence expenses during travel.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) any payments for expenditures under the Project after January 1 of 
each year unless, after each joint annual review, the Association has: (i) been 
satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in implementing the Action Plan; 
(ii) received the annual adjustment to the Action Plan as referred to in Section 3.04 
(a) (ii) of this Agreement; and (iii) approved the budgets and program referred to in 
Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement for the year concerned.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the 
performance of its education sector through a balanced apportionment of national 
resources allocated to the education sector and improved management thereof.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives.
Part A:
Improvement of the Quality of Primary Education
 
1.
Enhancement of professional skills for teachers and school administrators 
through in-service training, workshops and seminars for teacher  trainers, inspectors 
and pedagogical advisors (altogether about 120 people), about 2,700 teachers and about 
800 school directors.
2.
Improvement of the educational environment and rehabilitation of school 
facilities:
(a)
Acquisition and distribution of about 430,000 textbooks and teachers' 
guides.
(b)
Strengthening of INRAP's capability to develop new students' textbooks 
and teachers' guides and to procure and distribute pedagogical materials and supplies. 
(c)
Extending, equipping and furnishing INRAP's offices and renovation of 
MEN's storage facilities.
Page  9
(d)
Rehabilitation, equipping and refurnishing of about 880 classrooms in the 
zones of Ouaka, Mbomou and Bangui.
(e)
Development and implementation of a community-based school preventive 
maintenance and repair system through:
(i)
training of school staff in maintenance procedures;
 
(ii)
development and printing  of 3,000 maintenance guides;
(iii)
acquisition of about 220 tool kits and materials; and
 
(iv)
repair of accidental damage for about 80 classrooms.
 
3.
Strengthening school inspectorates' performance through: 
 
(a)
acquisition of vehicles, essential equipment and supplies; and
 
(b)
refurbishing of office space for the academic inspectorates in Bambari, 
Bangassou and Bangui-ville.
Part B:
Improvement of Learning Conditions at the University of Bangui
 
1.
Strengthening of the University library through extension of library space, 
acquisition of about 7,500 books in selected disciplines and training of senior 
library staff in the field of library management.
2.
Repairs and refurbishing of the Faculty of Science facilities and acquisition of 
essential laboratory equipment, materials and supplies.
3.
Strengthening the capability of the University's Planning Unit to assess the 
national demand for higher level manpower and adapt university curricula to said 
demand.
Part C:
Strengthening of MEN Administrative and Financial Management Capabilities
 
1.
Development of a computerized personnel management system and training of 
relevant staff in its use.
2.
Streamlining of accounting and budgetary procedures, development of a 
computerized financial management system and training of relevant staff in its use.
3.
Renovation, equipping and furnishing of office space for PCU and strengthening 
of its operational capability.
Part D:
Strengthening of SAB's Operational Capability
 
1.
Refurbishing of office space and acquisition of a micro-computer and related 
software, office equipment, furniture and supplies.
2.
Execution of a study to determine the adequacy of the higher education system 
with regard to the labor market and higher level manpower requirements in the Central 
African Republic.
Part E:
Follow-up Projects
 
Identification and preparation of future education projects and other related 
activities.
*  *  *  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  10
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods, works and services shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more each.
3.
Bidders for the works regarding the renovation of administrative buildings and 
school constructions shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the 
Guidelines.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Central African Republic may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
All civil works, furniture, equipment and pedagogical materials (except for 
textbooks) which cannot be grouped in packages of at least $250,000 equivalent may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association, provided that 
the aggregate cost of such contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall 
not exceed the equivalent of $2,650,000.
2.
Works, goods and services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of evaluation and 
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three reputable suppliers in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association, provided that the aggregate 
cost of such contracts shall not exceed the equivalent of $190,000.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalifications:
 
With respect to the prequalifications of bidders as provided in Part A.3 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
Page  11
contract, together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be 
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of  the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not 
apply to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from 
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
3.
The figure of 5 percent is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications,  experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SDR 
310,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits  shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories and in the respective equivalent amounts as shall have 
been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Page  12
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered 
into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the 
amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall  follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
SCHEDULE 5
A.
The Project Coordination Unit
 
1.
PCU shall be headed by a full-time Project Director, acceptable to the 
Association, who shall be responsible to the Secretary General of MEN.
2.
PCU shall include, in addition to the Project Director, the following full-time 
staff: (a) a Deputy Project Director; (b) an Administrator; (c) an Accountant; and (d) 
support staff.
3.
PCU shall have the necessary powers for the execution of the Project, including 
inter alia:
(a)
undertaking liaison with  the relevant departments, agencies, ministries 
and instrumentalities of the Borrower and with the Association to ensure the efficient 
and expeditious implementation of the Project;
(b)
preparation of annual work programs and budgets; 
 
(c)
procurement of civil works, goods, equipment and consultants' services, 
in accordance with Schedule 3 to this Agreement, including the preparation of bidding 
documents, the analysis of bids and the making of recommendations regarding the award 
Page  13
of contracts;
(d)
maintaining records and accounts, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement;
(e)
making all necessary arrangements to have the Project accounts audited;
 
(f)
preparation of documentation for withdrawal of Credit proceeds;
 
(g)
coordination and supervision of consultants employed under the Project;
 
(h)
review and approval or making arrangements for the review and approval by 
the appropriate authorities of all reports, plans, specifications and other material 
related to the Project; 
(i)
preparation of semi-annual progress reports in respect of the Project for 
the Borrower and the Association; and 
(j)
submission of a completion report no later than six months after the 
completion of the Project.
B.
The Action Plan Monitoring Committee (APMC)
 
I.
Membership
 
APMC shall comprise the following members:
-
1 representative of the Minister responsible for Finance 
(Chairman);
-
1 representative of the Minister responsible for Planning;
 
-
1 representative of the Ministry of National Education;
 
-
1 representative of the University of Bangui;
 
-
1 representative of SAB.
 
The Project Director and the Deputy Project Director shall provide the 
secretariat support required during APMC meetings.
II.
Responsibilities and working modalities
 
1.
APMC shall ensure that overall Project implementation is proceeding in 
accordance with the Project implementation schedule and the provisions of the Action 
Plan.
2.
To discharge this responsibility, APMC shall receive by the end of each calendar 
quarter a summary report, prepared by the Project Director, on the progress achieved 
by the Project during said calendar quarter. Said report shall measure the progress 
accomplished, point out areas for which policy decisions are required and recommend 
appropriate decisions, if any, to be taken
in order to maintain the Project on track and respect the schedules provided in the 
Action Plan.
3.
APMC shall meet at the end of each calendar quarter to review the quarterly 
Project progress report.
4.
By June 30 of each year, the Project Director shall prepare an annual report 
assessing the progress achieved in carrying out the Action Plan; in particular, the 
report shall provide detailed figures on achievement regarding fulfillment of the 
budgetary expenditures, staffing and pedagogical targets as set forth in the Action 
Plan, and the progress made in enforcing regulations
regarding repeaters rates.
5.
by July 30 of each year, APMC shall review the annual report referred to in 
paragraph (4) above and endorse it for the joint annual review to be held with the 
Page  14
Association pursuant to Section 3.04 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement.
