Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9368
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VI PROJECT
(LOAN 2126-IND)
FEBRUARY 21, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency: Rupiah
Rate of Exchange:
Appraisal Year                  US$1.00 = Rp.  625
Nov. 16, 1978 - Mar. 30, 1983  US$1.00 = Rp.  625 -900
Mar. 31, 1983 - Sep. 11, 1986  US$1.00 = Rp.  909 -1100
Sep. 12, 1986 - Dec.      1990  US$1.00 = Rp.  1640-1860
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
GOI: April 1 - March 31
PTP: January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BPKP               -           Government Audit Agency
BPN                -           Government Land Survey and Mapping Agency
BRI                -           Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CDC                -           Commonwealth Development Corporation
DGE                -           Directorate General of Estates
GOI                -           Government of Indonesia
NES                -           Foreign-assisted Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders Project
PCC                -           Provincial Coordinating Committee
PIR                -           Wholly GOI-financed Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders Projects
PMU                -           Project Management Unit
PTP                -           State-owned estate enterprises with Limited
Liability
Team Khusus        -           Special Team in DGE for Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders Projects



FOR OMCILu  USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washirgton. D.C 20433
U.SA
0fie of DOrectfcatGeatwi
Opefatbon EvIIt4)Un
February 21, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Indonesia Nucleus Estates
and Smallholders VI Proiect (Loan 2126-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Nucleus Estates and Smallholders
VI Project (Loan 2126-IND)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part
1I of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLbiERS VI PROJECT
(LOAN 2126-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .................                                          i
Evaluation Summary ..................         .       .iii
PART Ix      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity ................................1
Background ......................................1
Project Objectives and Description ..............1
Project Design and Organization ................. 2
Project Implementation .......................... 3
Project Results ..............4........              4
Project Sustainability .....................         8
Bank Performance ......................              8
Borrower Performance .....................           8
Project Relationship .....................9 
Consulting Services .....................            9
Project Documentation and Data .................. 10
Conclusions and Lessons Learned ................. 10
PART II:     PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction .................................... 12
Bank Performance ................................ 13
Borrower's Performance .......................... 13
Borrower and Bank Relations ..................... 14
Lessons Learned ................................. 15
PART III:    STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table  1: Related Bank Loans           .      .      16
Table  2: Project Timetable ......................  17
Table  3: Loan Disbursements           .      .      18
Table  4: Project Implementation         .     .     19
Table  5: Project Costs and Financing       . .   20
Table 6: Project Results              .      .     21
Table  7: Compliance with Major Loan Covenants.. 23
Table  8: Use of Bank Resources          .    .      26
Table  9: Rubber and Coconut Yield Profiles ...  27
Annex 1, Table 1 (a-h):  Rate of Return Estimates 28
MAPS
IBRD No. 16213R ................................. 35
IBRD No. 16212R ................................. 36
IBRD No. 15636R ................................. 37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VI PROJECT
(LOAN 2126-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Nucleus
Estates and Smallholders VI Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2126-IND in
the amount of US$68.1 million was approved on April 15, 1982. The loan became
effective on July 23, 1983 and was closed on June 30, 1989, one year behind
schedule. Due to the scaling down of original project targets and due to loan
savings from devaluations, only US$22.3 million (33Z) of the Bank loan amount
was utilized. US$19.1 million was cancelled during the project implementation
period and an undisbursed balance of US$26.7 million was cance'led at the time
of the last disbursement on January 10, 1990. The project was co-financed by
the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) with a loan of UK Pounds
Sterling (GBP) 15.6 million of which GBP 8.9 million has been disbursed. CDC
has extended the period of its loan to allow financing of remaining project
activities and it is anticipated that a further GBP 5.5 million will be
disbursed by June 1991 when the loan closes. The undisbursed balance will be
canceled at that time.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Agriculture Operations
Division, Country Department V of the Asia Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summzry, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II). Preparation
of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan
Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VI PROJECT
,LOAN 2126-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.       The Nucleus Estates and Smallholders VI Project (NES VI) was the sixth of a
series of Bank financed projects supporting the Government of Indonesia's Nucleus
Estates and Smallholders (NES) tree crop development program. The project's main
objectives were to: (a) resettle 8,450 families in West Java and Bengkulu provinces
and to improve their livelihood through tree crops and food crop development; (b)
promote export expansion/import substitution through the establishment and
rehabilitation of 26,500 ha of rubber and coconuts for smallholders and nucleus
estates; and (c) promote institutional development in the estates sector through
technical assistance.
Implementation Experience
2.        Project implementation was slower than anticipated at appraisal due to:
(a) delays and shortfalls in the allocation of land by local government authorities
for project development; (b) inadequate supervision and performance monitoring by
the Directorate General of Estates; (c) inadequate coordination among project
agencies at the provincial and district government levels; (d) delays in the
approval and release of funds for smallholder development; and (e) in the case of
the Cikaso/Agrabinta component, lax and ineffectual management of project activities
by PTP XII. Due to land problems, smallholder rubber planting targets at Seram and
Seluma were scaled down to 33? and 60? of original targets respectively.
3.       Many of the Bank supervision missions' recommendations to the DGE for
improving project performance particularly at Cikaso/Agrabinta were not implemented.
Consequently, the loan was closed on June 1989 even though at Cikaso/Agrabinta, most
of the project targets, other than tree crop plantings were not met. The remaining
activities are being funded by the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) and it
is anticipated that these will be completed by June 1991, three years behind
schedule.
4.       Due to the scaling down of original project targets during implementation
and due to loan savings from devaluations, the total cost of the project and
utilization of the Bank and CDC loan proceeds were much lower than anticipated at
appraisal. Total project costs as of the date of this PCR amounted to US$69.9
million or 37? of the appraisal estimate (US$190 million) and 49? of the revised
project costs (US$142 million). It is anticipated that the total cost of the project
will amount to about US$80.4 million when the remaining project activities, being
financed by CDC are completed in June 1991. Only 33? of the Bank loan amount was
utilized and only 53? of the CDC loan amount has been disbursed to date.



- iv -
Results
5.       The project's physical objectives other than food crop development will be
achieved but after a 2 to 3 year delay particularly at Cikaso/ Agrabinta. Due to
substandard plantings, however, yields from smallholder rubber and coconut plots
established under the project will be lower than anticipated at appraisal. The
project has directly benefitted 6,500 smallholder families and has generated 4,300
new jobs on the nucleus estate and smallholdings compared to the appraisal target of
8,500 families and 7,600 jobs. The economic rate of return for the project as a
whole is estimated at 12Z. Re-estimated ERRs for the various project components are
lower than appraisal astimates due to a decline in world prices for rubber and
copra, delayed benefits from implementation delays, and lower yield expectations.
6.       Similar to earlier Bank-assisted NES projects, the NES VI project had a
positive impact on the physical environment.  Apart from increasing productivity of
marginal lands, tree crops replaced large areas of degraded secondary bush or alang-
alang, a coarse grass which is particularly destructive to soil nutrients, and
reduced soil erosion in those areas that previously had inadequate ground cover.
Sustainability
7.       Although some of the smallholder plantings established under the project
are of substandard quality, resulting in lower yields than those envisaged at
appraisal, most of the expected project benefits are sustainable provided: (i)
smallholders are provided with effective extension services to ensure regular and
proper maintenance and harvesting practices and (ii) rubber and copra prices do not
fall markedly below those currently projected by the Bank.
indings and Lessons Learnt
8.       Findings of the recent tree crops sector review which are presented in the
1989 Bank report titled: Indonesia: Strategies for Sustained Development of Tree
Crops, and previous PCRs show that the major tree crops -- rubber, coconuts and oil
palm, play an important role in the Indonesian economy. They generate foreign
exchange earnings, create productive employment opportunities, help alleviate
poverty, stimulate agro-industrial development and foster regional development.
These findings are consistent with the experience gained under Bank-assisted tree
crop projects. The experience shows that despite the delays and problems
encountered in project implementation and shortfalls in the results achieved --
substandard smallholder plantings, the failure of food crop development components
and systemic difficulties with recovery of smallholder loans -- these projects have
made a significant contribution towards the achievement of Indonesia's main
objectives in the agriculture sector. The five NES projects completed to-date have
resettled and directly benefitted about 40,000 previously landless families and have
generated about 60,000 new jobs. It is estimated that at full development, incomes
of the participating farmers will be about 35? higher than the average rural income
in Indonesia. The projects' contribution to the country's non-oil/LNG exports is
also substantial. The projects have also had a positive impact on the environment.
Apart from increasing productivity of marginal lands, tree crops replaced large
areas of degraded secondary bush and reduced soil erosion in those areas that
previously had inadequate ground cover.



- v 
9.       Experience with the implementation of NES VI and other Bank-assisted
nucleus estates ande smallholders projects has shown that: (a) the NES approach --
which relies on the technical ant. managerial resources of public estate companies
(PTPs) I.o promote smallholder tree crop development -- has not worked as well as
originally envisioned. While the PTPs have the capacity to implement project
physical components, they have neither incentives nor sufficient expertise to
promote smallholder development. The experience suggests that PTPs provide only
contract services for activities such as planting for smallholders, and concentrate
on their primary role as commercial enterprises; (b) The mechanism instituted for
the recovery of smallholder tree crop development costs has not functioned as
expected. Based on the experience to date, the viability, replicability and
sustainability of credit as a means of cost recovery are doubtful and GOI needs to
consider alternative financing arrangements at least for part of thLe planting and
replanting costs, and indirect cost recovery options; (c) in spite of the technical
assistance provided under NES projects, the Directorate General of Estates (DGE)
still lacks the capacity to effectively carry out its central role in tree crop
development, due to budgetary and manpower constraints and inadequate operational
procedures; (d) the delays experienced under all past and orgoing Bank-assisted NES
projects could have been avoided if availability of suitable land had been confirmed
before commencement of physical implementation; and (e) coordination between project
staff, DGE, provincial governments and line ministries is vital for the efficient
and successful implementation of smallholder tree crop development projects.



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VI PROJECT
(LOAN 2126-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Naoi.e                : Ni'.eas Estates and Smallholders VI
Project (NES VI)
Loan Number           :2126-IND
RVP Unit              :Asia
Country               :Indonesia
Sector                :Agriculture
Sub-sector            :Tree Crops
Background
1.01        The Nucleus Estates and Sma:lholders VI Project (NES VI) was the
sixth of a series of Bank financed projects supporting the Government of
Indonesia's Nucleus Estates and Smallholders (NES) tree crop development
program. The project was co-financed by the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC). The Bank Loan (No. 2126-IND) supporting this project was
approved in April 1982 and was closed on June 31, 1989, one year behind
schedule. The CDC loan was extended for a two year period to provide
financing for the remaining project activities and it is anticipated that the
project will be completed by June 1991, three years behind the completion date
envisaged at appraisal.
1.02        As for all preceding Bank-assisted NES projects, the NES VI
project was initiated at the request of GOI to support its main objectives in
the agricultural sector which were and remain to: (a) create productive
employment to raise the incomes of the rural poor; (b) increase domestic food
supply to keep pace with rising demand; (c) expand agricultural exports as a
part of a policy to minimize dependence on oil exports; and (c) ensure
productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land, water and other natural
resources. The NES VI and eatlier Bank-assisted NES projects focused on the
development of the tree crops for smallholders on lands where no cash crop
alternatives could be developed efficiently on a sustainable basis, or on a
large enough scale to have a major impact on employment creation, poverty
alleviation and promotion of non-oil exports.
Project Obiectives and Description
1.03        Objectives:  In line with GOI's agricultural sector objectives,
the project's main objectives were to: (a) resettle 8,450 families in West
Java and Bengkulu provinces and to improve their livelihood through tree crops
and food crop development; (b) promote export expansion/import substitution



- 2 -
through the establishment or rehabilitation of 26,500 ha of rubber and
coconuts for smallholders and nucleus estates; and (d) promote institutional
development in the estates sector through technical assistance.
1.04        Description:  The project was to be implemented over a period of
five years (1982 to 1987) in three provinces: West Java, Bengkulu and Maluku
and comprised the following components:
(i)   Smallholder DevelMpent:  Planting of 5,500 ha of coconuts in West
Java by PTP XII and 9,500 ha of rubber in Bengkulu prov:nce by PTP
XXIII together with the development of food crops and construction
of roads, housing and village infrastructure for 8,450 families;
(ii)  Nucleus Estate Development:  (a) planting for PTP XII of 1,170 ha
of rubber at Cikaso, and 970 ha of rubber and 500 ha of coconuts
at Agrabinta, rehabilitating 600 ha of rubber at Cikaso and 770 ha
of rubber and 480 ha of coconuts at Agrabinta; (b) planting of
4,000 ha of rubber and 3,000 ha of coconuts for PTP XXVIII at
Seram in Maluku province; (c) provision of related infrastructure
including estate housing, buildings, roads and processing
facilities; and
(iii) Technical Assistance and Program Support: Provision of: (a)
consultant services to assist Team Khusus (special team in the
Directorate General of Estates for Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders Projects) and the estates to implement the project
and identify and prepare future projects; (b) consultant services
to strengthen capability within the Department of Agriculture to
prepare sugar projects in the Outer Islands, and to strengthen
staff training for sugar production; and (c) funds for start-up
activities for future Bank-assisted tree crop projects.
1.05        Financing:  It was envisaged that CDC would finance tree crop
development including land clearing, preparation and planting while the Bank
would finance all major civil works including roads, smallholder, estate and
factory buildings; road construction, agricultural and processing machinery,
agro-chemicals and the cost of consultant services and start-up expenditures
for future Bank-assisted NES projects. However, with the closure of the Bank
loan prior to the completion of all project activities, CDC extended the
period of its loan and agreed to finance all remaining activities including
those which had previously been earmarked for Bank financing.
Proiect Design and Organization
1.06        Project design followed the concept of the preceding five NES
projects. The project's technical, organizational and financial features were,
with a few exceptions the same as in the preceding projects. The project
would rely upon the technical and managerial resources of public sector
estetes (PTPs) to establish tree crops, food crops and physical infrastructure
for the settlement of smallholders around the PTPs' own nucleus estates. PTP
XII and PTP XXYII would undertake smallholder development at Cikaso/Agrabinta
and Seluma respectively. PTP XXVIII was to focus only on nucleus estate
development at Seram.



- 3 -
1.07        At maturity of plantings, smallholder families at Cikaso/Agrabinta
were each to receive 1.5 ha coconuts while those at 'eluma would receive 2 ha
of rubber. In addition, each family would be allocated up to 1 ha of land for
a house lot and rotational food crops. The PTPs would employ, on the project
site until maturity of smallholder plantings, one member from each household
selected to participatt in the project. Village and social infrastructure at
settlement sites was to be provided through ongoing local government programs,
coordinated by Provincial Coordinating Committees (PCC) which would also
assist in settler selection. Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) would be responsible
for handling funds for the project's credit component, and for the collection
of smallholder loan repayments.
1.08        As for all NES projects, the DGE would have overall responsibility
for NES VI execution and would be assisted by Team Khusus which was
established in 1979 under NES III. Team Khusus would coordinatc and monitor
project implementation, and assist the PTPs in administrative asp,-ts of
projects at central government level, and with procurement and financial
administration, technical and engineering requirements of the project.
Project Implementation
1.09         Project implementation started off at a slow pace due to land
acquisition problems. Although local goverrment authorities had given
assurances that suitable land for the project development would be readily
available at commencement of project implementation, shortfalls in land
availability delayed implementation by one year. Land problems at
Cikaso/Agrabinta were not fully reso-.ved until 1987, one year before the
scheduled Loan Closing date. At Seram, much of the land on the site
previously demarcated for the project was found to be topographically
unsuitable for rubber, and at Seluma, only 602 of the land required for
smallholder development was made available. As a result, the rubber planting
targets at Seram and Seluma were scaled down to 332 and EOZ of original
targets respectively. Although similar land problems had been encountered
during implementation of previous NES projects, delays in acquisition of
suitable land were not perceived at appraisal as a potential risk that could
impede NES VI implementation. The delays experienced under all past and
ongoing Bank-assisted NES projects could have been avoided or significantly
reduced if availability of suitable land had been confirmed before
commencement of physical development.
1.10        Apart from land problems, implementation of the Cikaso/Agrabinta
cemponent was affected by two other factors neither of which had been foreseen
at appraisal: (a) due to poor construction standards, the quality of the
Cikaso-Agrabinta road which had been built by the Transmigration Department
deteriorated rapidly and impeded access between the two project sites; and (b)
throughout the project implementation period, PTP XII's management of both the
smallholder and nucleus estate development activities was lax and ineffectual.
Most Bank supervision mission recommendations to DGE and PTP XII senior
management for improving performance were not implemented. Consequently, as
it would have been difficult to justify a further extension of the Loan
Closing Date under such circumstances, GOI did not request a further extension
of the project implementation period and the loan was closed even though at
Cikaso/Agrabinta, most of the project targets, other than tree crop plantings
were incomplete. The remaining activities are being funded by CDC and it is



- 4 -
anticipated that all planned activities, including construction of processing
facilities will be completed by June 1991, three lears behind schedule.
1.11        Largely due to the scaling down of original project targets and
devaluation of the Rupiah during implementation, the total cost of the project
and utilization of the Bank loan were much lower than anticipated at
appraisal. Total project costs as of the date of this PCR amounted to USS
69.9 million or 37? of the appraisal estimate (US$190 million) and 492 of
revised project costs (US$142.9 million). It is anticipated that the total
cost of the project will amount to about US$80.4 million when the remaining
project activities being financed by CDC are completed in June 1991. Out of
the original Bank loan amount of US$68.1 million, only US$22.3 million (33? of
the loan amount) was disbursed. A total of US$19.1 million was canceled
following devaluations of the Rupiah and revisions of project costs in 1985,
1987 and 1988 and the undisbursed balance of US$26.7 million was canceled upon
closing of the Loan Account on January 10, 1990. Utilization of the CDC loan
was also lower than anticipated. Out of the total loan amount of UK Pounds
Sterling (GBP) 15.6 million, only GBP8.2 million (53Z) has been disbursed to-
date. It anticipated that a further GBP5.5 million will be disbursed up to
project completion leaving a loan balance of GBP1.9 million to be canceled at
the closure of the CDC loan account.
Proiect Results
1.12        The physical objectives of the project other than food crop
development will be achieved but after considerable delay particularly in the
construction of coconut processing facilities, project roads and smallholder
social infrastructure at CikasolAgrabinta. Although revised smallholder
coconut and rubber planting targets were achieved, large areas of the
plantings are of substandard quality. It is estimated that rubber and coconut
yields over the life of the project will be about 30? lower than the levels
anticipated at appraisal. The project has directly benefitted 6,500
smallholder families -- 75? of the appraisal target and has generated 4,300
new jobs on the nucleus estate and smallholdings. It is anticipated that a
total of 5,700 jobs will be generated at full development, or about 75? of the
number estimated at appraisal. The number of project beneficiaries and
expected employment generation at full development are lower than appraisal
estimates as a result of the scaling down, during implementation, of project
targets due to land problems. About one-half of the jobs created under the
project were or are currently held by women.
1.13        The  economic rate of return (ERR) for the project as a whole
(none was calculated at appraisal) is estimated at 12Z. The comparison
between economic rates of return estimated at appraisal for the main project
components and recent estimates is presented in Table 6 of Part III. Re-
estimated ERR for all project components are lower than appraisal estimates
due to the decline in ex-post and projected world prices of rubber and copra,
delayed benefits resulting from implementation delays and more importantly,
lower yield expectations due to substandard plantings. Financial rates of
return for the whole project and for individual components (none were
estimated at appraisal) are all above 10?.
1.14        Similar to earlier Bank-assisted NES projects, the NES VI project
had a positive impact on the physical environment. Prior to the project, the



- 5 -
vegetation in the project areas was either degraded secondary bush or alang-
alang, a coarse grass which is particularly destructive to soil nutrients.
Planting these areas with productive trees replaced large areas of alang-alang
and reduced soil erosion in those areas that had been used for shifting
cultivation and had inadequate ground cover.
1.15        On the institutional side, the project's objective of
strengthening the estate sector's capacity through technical assistance were
not fully realized. While PTP XXIII's technical capacity and PTP XXVIII's
accounting and financial management capabilities were enhanced through the
consultant services provided under the project, the impact on PTP XII, of the
technical assistance provided was minimal as demonstrated by the PTP's
unsatisfactory performance in the implementation of the Cikaso/Agrabinta
component. More importantly, the technical assistance provided to Team Khusus
under the project, appeared to have had very little impact on enhancing the
institution's capacity to carry out its central role in tree crop development.
1.16         In common with earlier Bank-assisted NES projects, the
implementation progress and project results achieved under NES VI, fell short
of expectations in three key areas:
(i) Quality of Smallholder Plantings: The quality of much of the
smallholder rubber and coconut plantings established under NES VI and earlier
NES projects was below expected standards. About 642 of rubber and 40Z of
coconut plantings established under NES VI for smallholders at Seluma and
Cikaso/Agrabinta respectively are substandard (Class B, C and D). 1/ For the
five NES projects completed to-date, about 60% of the rubber, 502 of the
coconuts and 20% of oil palm established for smallholders, were at completion
of these projects, below acceptable standards and required upgrading to give
the yield levels envisaged at appraisal. Substandard plantings were a result
of: (a) poor field establishment and maintenance arising from faulty
management by the PTPs, inadequate funding and delays in the release of funds
for essential input such as fertilizers and herbicides; (b) inadequate
monitoring of the projects' implementation progress by Team Khusus and lack of
inspection services within DGE to visit project sites regularly and provide
objective feedback that would allow GOI to take timely remedial steps.
To improve the quality of smallholder plantings on Bank-assisted
NES projects, Government embarked on an upgrading program in 1987. However
the program was unsuccessful largely due to erratic funding. With the passage
of time, most of the substandard plantings exceeded the age (three years)
beyond which upgrading was not technically feasible. As a result, GOI decided
it would write down the amount of the related smallholder loans so that
smallholders wrould still receive a reasonable income after debt service.
(ii) Food Crop Development. The development of food crops for
smallholders' subsistence and for supplementing smallholders' incomes did not
1/ Under the present GOI system for classifying rubber, coconut and oil
palm plantings, Class A represents plantings of an acceptable standard; Class
B plantings require some upgrading to reach the required standard; Class C and
D plantings require extensive rehabilitation effort or even replanting to
become productive holdings.



meet expectations due to: (a) the PTPs' lack of previous experience and
knowledge of the technology required for food crop production on a sustainable
basis, (b) lack of effective extension service support and seasonal credit for
financing further inputs to supplement first year inputs provided by the PTPs,
and (c) overly optimistic expectations about food crop cropping on largely
poor soils in the project areas. At most NES project sites, only about 302 of
food crop targets were achieved. Most of the smallholder families do not
produce sufficient food for their subsistence and depend instead on their tree
crop or off-farm incomes for this purpose.
(iii) Cost Recovery: The conversion of smallholder development
expenditures into smallholder loans -- the first step in the recovery of
credit, is seriously behind schedule. As for all Bank-assisted NES projects,
it was stipulated that at the end of the third year of planting of smallholder
coconuts, and the fifth year of planting of rubber, NES VI smallholder
plantation and housing expenditures by the PTPs would be converted into
standardized credit amounts for which individual smallholders would then enter
into loan agreements with BRI. However, for the NES VI project, conversion
has been completed in respect of only 222 of the 10,750 ha of smallholder
rubber and coconuts established under the project. For the five NES projects
completed to date, only about 11? of plantings developed under these projects
have been converted. A committee comprising senior level staff from the
relevant GOI agencies was established in 1988 to devise and oversee the
implementation of procedures for accelerating the conversion process. While
conversion criteria and procedures have been clarified and improved, the
conversion process continues to lag due to: (a) substandard plantings; and
(b) delays by: (i) Badan Pertanahan Nasional (BPN) -- the Government Land
survey and Mapping Agency -- in surveying smallholder plots and issuing land
certificates required as collateral for smallholder loans, (ii) BPKP (the
Government Audit Agency) in auditing smallholder development expenditures to
determine the amount of individual smallholder debt, and (iii) BRI in
finalizing credit arrangements following inputs by BPN and BPKP.
1.17        Apart from problems which were specific to individual project
sites and components, the main shortcomings in the implementation and results
of NES VI and earlier Bank-assisted NES projects can be attributed to four
principal factors:
(i) Poor Quality of Management. Perhaps the most outstanding
corstraint to the successful implementation of the projects was the quality of
management, particularly in the PTPs. Management was either not able, due to
overstretched capacity or was not sufficiently motivated or willing to
implement the projects to the standards contracted by them under the
Smallholder Development Agreements. The PTPs clearly have substantial
technical know how and capacity to establish quality trees, maintain them
properly and handle processing efficiently. This is borne out by the fact
that operations on the nucleus estate are usually of a higher standard than
the neighboring smallholder areas. Supervision of the NES projects constantly
indicated recurrence of identical problems particularly at smallholder sites:
land clearing was not done properly and at reasonable cost; weed and alang-
alang control was usually delayed with costly consequences; fertilizer
applications were both inadequate and delayed and the supply of replacement
trees in the early years following planting was unduly delayed and/or



incomplete with consequent reduction in tree density per hectare and
unevenness of stand.
In general, the PTPs' performance in the execution of project
civil works left a lot to be desired. On most NES project sites, the quality
of settler houses is below tender specifications; roads are often of inferior
construction, a problem which is compounded by lack of regular maintenance. In
many cases the PTPs did not have "in-house' civil engineers to plan and
supervise construction and were reluctant to recruit this expertise when it
was lacking even where funding was readily available.
(ii) Inadequate Monitoring of Project Implementation: To
strengthen the DGE capacity to carry out its responsibility for overseeing the
execution of GOI's tree crop development program, agreement had been reached
at the NES II negotiations that: (i) GOI would establish within DGE, the
Special Team for Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Projects (Team Khusus) to
assist DGE in the planning, execution and monitoring of NES projects; and (ii)
DGE would employ consultants to provide inspection services to visit projects
regularly and to provide objective feedback that would allow GOI to take
timely remedial steps to resolve major implementation problems. Although,
Team Khusus was established as agreed, it was not provided with sufficient
resources to adequately carry out its responsibilities.  With a limited
operational budget and responsibility for monitoring implementation of several
foreign assisted tree crop, Team Khusus' capacity to regularly supervise these
projects and to assist in resolving implementation problems was severely
constrained. Moreover inspection services which would have supplemented Team
Khusus' role were not established. Establishment of the inspection services
was initiated only recently and it is anticipated that consultants who will
provide these services will begin work by September 1990 -- too late to
benefit the implementation of past NES projects. With hindsight, it would
have been desirable to include in the Loan Agreements of past NES projects
specific covenants requiring establishment and financing of inspection
services and satisfactory staffing and financing of Team Khusus, commensurate
with its responsibilities.
(iii) Delayed approval and Release of Budget Funds: Delays in
the approval and release of budgeted funds for smallholder development
seriously slowed implementation and placed a heavy burden on the PTPs to pre-
finance smallholder development expenditures. In many instances, project
activities were delayed where the PTPs due to their own cash flow constraints
were not able to pre-finance smallholder activities. Apart from delays in the
release of funds, the amounts when released were normally significantly less
than the amounts requested by the implementing agencies. Delays also resulted
from the limits imposed by GOI on unit costs for settler houses and roads
being unrealistically low. The constraints on unit costs were removed only in
the 1988-89 budget, after continued representations by DGE to the Department
of Finance and Bappenas. It is also only recently that Government has changed
procedures for funding smallholder tree crop development projects to allow
timely approval of budgets and release of funds to project agencies.
(iv) Lack of Mature Phase Extension: Smallholders have not
received adequate extension service support from the PTPs and other GOI
agencies after tree crop maturity to ensure continued viability of
smallholdings. The need for this support is heightened by the generally poor



-8-
integration of the smallholders into project activities during the immature
period. The NES schemes were planned so that settlers would be recruited
before planting; provided employment as estate workers for about three years
during which time they would learn to be effective tree crop farmers; receive
their houses, food crops and tree crop on arrival; and that within six months
they would get a certificate of conditional ownership. At almost all NES
project sites, few of these plans were ever implemented. The smallholders
arrived at project sites years after planting had commenced; and, the majority
of them still await issuance of their land titles. In most cases farmers
still have not been assigned their tree crop areas, even though the plantings
are mature. A related shortcoming resulting from lack of weak extension
service support is that smallholders have not been organized into farmer
groups, which with the benefit of group dynamics would have facilitated and
improved tree crop maintenance, harvesting, crop transportation, processing,
marketing and credit recovery.
Project Sustainability
1.18        Although some of the smallholder plantings established under the
project are of substandard quality, resulting in lower yields than those
envisaged at appraisal, most of the expected project benefits are sustainable
provided: (i) smallholders are provided with effective extension services to
ensure regular and proper maintenance and harvesting practices and (ii) rubber
and copra prices do not fall markedly below those currently projected by the
Bank. Mature phase extension services have been identified as a priority on
which the Bank will seek GOI action in the context of the proposed Tree Crops
Smallholder Development II Project. To minimize the effect of fluctuations in
copra prices and ensure that their incomes are maintained at an acceptable
level, smallholders at Cikaso and Agrabinta have started inter-cropping cocoa
in their coconut plots. Experience elsewhere in Indonesia has shown that
cocoa/coconut inter-cropping is technically feasible and financially viable.
Bank Performance
1.19        As for all NES projects, the Bank took the lead in the project
appraisal process, and played a more prominent role in project implementation
than had been envisioned due to inadequate supervision and performance
monitoring by GOI. Technical assistance provided by the Bank's Resident
Mission during the course of project supervision, partly filled the gap
resulting from the lack of capacity within DGE. However, the Bank's
assistance was clearly insufficient to forestall serious project shortfalls.
In retrospect, less involvement by the Bank in helping GOI agencies resolve
routine management and technical implementation problems and a greater role by
the Bank in institution building would have, in the long term, benefitted the
implementation and performance of future tree crop projects.
Borrower Performance
1.20        GOI played an active part in preparation of the project and
participated in all aspects of the appraisal and made significant inputs to
project design. During project implementation, however, GOI's performance was
weak in three particular areas critical to success: (i) throughout the
project implementation period, there were substantial delays in the approval
and release cf funds for smallholder development. Often the funds approved in



- 9 -
the annual budgets were less than the amounts required to carry out the
planned project activities. Moreover, approved budgets limited certain cost
items to unrealistically low amounts and so caused long delays while higher
amounts were negotiated; (ii) the expected increase in the capacity of the DGE
to supervise implementation primarily through Team Khusus, but also through an
independent inspection service was not achieved. Team Khusus staff numbers
remained inadequate throughout because of its added responsibility to
supervise all foreign assisted and wholly GOI financed NES projects; (iii) the
level of cooperation and coordination between the project staff, the DGE,
provincial governments and other line ministries was not sufficient tk achieve
timely and efficient implementation.
Project RelationshiR
1.21        Through the staff of its Resident Mission, the Bank maintained
close contact with the PTPs and other agencies involved in the implementation
of the project. Discussions between the Bank and GOI throughout project
implementation focused on actions required to resolve project specific
problems and systemic issues which impeded efficient development of the tree
crops sub-sector. While most project-specific problems were eventually
resolved, the main systemic issues such as, inadequate and delayed fund
releases and lack of inspection services for tree crops were resolved when it
was too late for them to have a major impact on NES VI implementation.
1.22        As for all NES projects, successful implementation of NES VI
required close coordination between DGE, the PTPs and local government
agencies which were responsible for providing land for smallholder
development, village infrastructure and social services and for recruitment of
settlers. Throughout the project implementation period, however, coordination
between the various local government agencies themselves and between these
agencies and the PTPs were weak. In general, the roles played by the
Provincial Coordinating Committees, which were meant to work closely with the
PTPs in project execution, was considerably less than envisioned.
Consulting Services
1.23         Extensive use was made of the technical assistance funds provided
under the Bank loan. A financial consultant and a rubber agronomist were
employed under the project to strengthen PTP XXVIII's accounting and financial
management capabilities and PTP XXIII's capacity to undertake smallholder
rubber development respectively. The performance of the consultants, each
employed for three years was satisfactory. To assist Team Khusus in carrying
out its responsibilities, financing was provided under NES VI for eight
consultants: a soil scientist, a civil engineer, a palm oil processing
engineer, a palm oil agronomist, two financial consultants, a sugar agronomist
and a rubber processing adviser. Except for one of the financial consultants
whose services were terminated due to unsatisfactory performance, overall, the
consultants provided valuable support to Team Khusus. However, as for other
consulting services provided under previous Bank-assisted NES projects, Team
Khusus did not make full use of the consultants financed under NES VI: First,
although training of Indonesian staff was designated as one of the
consultants' main functions, the consultants were not assigned counterparts to
facilitate on-the-job training of Indonesians to take over the consultants'
responsibilities in due course. As a result, despite its having been in



- 10 -
existence for ten years, Team Khusus has not developed in-house capability in
many of the technical areas and continues to rely extensively on consultants.
Many of those previously financed under NES VI have been retained and their
contracts are currently financed under ongoing Bank-assisted tree crop
projects. Second, many of the consultants who would have been more
effectively deployed in the field, advising PTPs and smallholders on proper
tree crop establishment, maintenance and harvesting standards, spent most of
the time in Jakarta where they were less productive. To resolve this problem
which was attributed to lack of an adequate travel budget, funds for the
consultants' field travel are routinely included in Bank financed consultant
contracts. In retrospect, technical assistance provided under Bank-assisted
NES projects would have been more effective if: (a) more emphasis had been
placed on the consultants' institution building role -- training of
counterpart staff and establishing technical guidelines and procedures, and
(b) DGE and the Bank had supervised and monitored the use of consultants more
closely during project implementation.
Project Documentation and Data
1.24        The Staff Appraisal Report and the Loan Agreement were detailed
and provided a useful framework for both the Bank and the Borrower during
project implementation. However, some of the loan covenants, particularly
those relating to financial reporting and auditing of project acccunts, set
unrealistic deadlines for compliance. These deadlines were not met largely
due to lack of capacity both in the PTPs to prepare financial statements on
time and within BPKP (the Government audit agency) to audit PTPs and project
financial statements. Audited corporate accounts of the PTPs, which should
have been submitted to the Bank within four months of the end of the PTPs'
fiscal year and audited project accounts which should have been submitted
within six months of the end of the GOI fiscal year, were in all years
submitted three to six months late.
1.25        During the course of project supervision, monitoring of the status
of implementation was impeded by the lack of reliable and accurate data on the
status of project activities.  Da-a compiled by Team Khusus was often
inconsistent with the data provided by the PTPs staff at project sites and at
the PTP headquarters. These problems show a need for improving reporting from
project implementing agencies to DGE. Also DGE's capacity to process and
assess tree crop development data needs to be strengthened. The needs were
recognized by project supervision missions but no concrete steps were taken to
address them. In retrospect, technical assistance should have been provided
to DGE to improve its capability to collect and maintain accurate data on tree
crop development activities for which it has overall responsibility.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
1.26        Findings of the recent tree crops sector review  which are
presented in the 1989 Bank report titled Indonesia: Strategies for Sustained
Development of Tree Crops show that the major tree crops -- rubber, coconuts
and oil palm, play an important role in the Indonesian economy. They generate
foreign exchange earnings, create productive employment opportunities, help
alleviate poverty, stimulate agro-industrial development and foster regional
development. These findings are consistent with the experience gained under
Bank-assisted tree crop projects. The experience shows that despite the



- 11 -
delays and problems encountered in project implementation and shortfalls in
the results achieved -- substandard smallholder plantings, the failure of food
crop development components and delayed conversion and recovery of smallholder
loans -- these projects have made a significant contribution towards the
achievement of Indonesia's main objectives in the agriculture sector. The
five NES projects completed to-date have resettled and directly benefitted
about 40,000 previously landless families and have generated about 60,000 new
jobs. It is estimated that at full development, incomes of the participating
farmers will be about 35Z higher than the average rural income in Indonesia.
The projects' contribution to the country's non-oil/LNG exports is also
considered to be substantial. The projects have also had a positive impact on
the environment. Apart from increasing productivity of marginal lands, tree
crops replaced large areas of degraded secondary bush and reduced soil erosion
in those areas that previously had inadequate ground cover.
1.27        Tree crop investments are given priority in GOI's Fifth five-year
development plan (Repelita V: 1989/90 to 1994/95) in view of the need for
rapid growth in non-oil exports, and a faster growth in the labor force in the
Outer Islands. The challenge for GOI is to enact and implement policies and
measures for addressing issues which hinder the efficient growth of the sector
and for expanding tree crop development assistance to a larger number of
smallholders.
1.28        Other key lessons learned from implementation experiences under
NES VI and the earlier NES projects are:
(i)   Effectiveness of Technical Assistance:  (a) While the technical
assistance provided by the Bank staff was vital for ensuring more
successful project implementation, it may have served as a
disincentive for GOI to create the necessary capacity to execute
the project. In retrospect, less involvement by the Bank in
helping the PTPs resolve routine management and technical
implementation problems might have encouraged GOI to build up
DGE's institutional capabilities to carry out its designated role
in tree crop development; and (b) technical assistance financed
under Bank-assisted projects would have been more effective if
more emphasis had been placed on the consultants' institution
building role -- training of counterpart staff and establishing
technical guidelines and procedures and if DGE and the Bank had
supervised and monitored the use of consultants more closely
during project implementation.
(ii)  Cost Recovery:  The mechanism instituted for the recovery of
smallholder tree crop development costs incurred by GOI has not
functioned and the problem has been worsened by unexpected
substandard plantings. If Government is to pursue recovery
smallholder development costs through the existing mechanism, it
is imperative that all aspects of the credit recovery system,
particularly the institutional framework for administering these
loans be overhauled and improved. Based on the experience to
date, the viability, replicability and sustainability of credit as
a means of cost recovery are doubtful. Accordingly, the Bank has
recommended, in the context of the recent review of the tree crops
subsector, that GOI consider alternative financing and indirect



- 12 -
cost recovery options such as an export/development cess on rubber
in order to break the present impasse over the smallholder credit
system.
(iii) Capability of PTPs to Promote Smallholder Development: While the
PTPs have the capability to implement physical components of NES
projects, such as tree crop establishment and project civil works,
they have neither the expertise nor interest in the overall
promotion of smallholder development. If GOI is to continue to use
the PTPs in smallholder development because of their technical
expertise, it is vital that their role be restricted to physical
development on a contractual basis, leaving the other smallholder
development activities such as extension services, farmers' group
formation and training to GOI agencies that have expertise in
these areas;
(iv)  Availability of Land for Project Development:  To ensure timely
implementation of smallholder project components, basic project
requirements such as acquisition of suitable land and
identification and preliminary selection of settlers should be
completed before commencement of physical development;
(v)   Inter-agency Coordination:  Execution of NES/PIR projects has been
hampered by poor coordination and at times a lack of commitment of
local government agencies. This may be partly due to the fact
that despite their having responsibility for some of the
projects' smallholder components, local government agencies were
not fully involved in project formulation and saw their role in
the project as being only peripheral. In retrospect, greater
involvement of local authorities at the provincial and district
levels in project formulation and preparation process would have
assured a more active participation during implementation.
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROVER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction
2.01        The information in Parts II and III of this report primarily
originated from the implementing nucleus estate agencies namely, PTP XII, PTP
XXIII and PTP XXVIII. The data gathered from the agencies for the purpose of
this Project Completion Report, were cross-checked with the data gathered
during implementation by Team Khusus and through site visits. Likewise,
relevant data were gathered from other local government agencies of the
provinces of West Java, Bengkulu and Maluku.
2.02        The analysis and evaluation of Part I of this report provides an
accurate assessment of the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders VI Project
implemented starting from 1982 up to 1989 when the loan was closed.
Perceptions presented in Part I of this report are those of the Bank and
perceptions presented in Part II are those of the Directorate General of
Estates, Ministry of Agriculture of the Government of Indonesia. The
perceptions of both parties are important in determining future courses of
actions and any differences of perceptions are a result of the complexity of
the situation under examination.



- 13 -
Bank Performance
2.03        The World Bank is the largest foreign lender to the Government of
Indonesia for its tree crops development program since the early 1970s.
Through these years, the Bank has acquired insights, perceptions and
observations which were and are valuable in the success and further
improvements of the tree crops development program. The Bank has played a
major role among the foreign lenders not only in the formulation, appraisal
and supervision of specific tree crops development projects but also in
assisting the Government of Indonesia in identifying issues and problems
common in the tree crops development program and for the two approaches,
namely, the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders (NES) schemes and the Project
Management Unit (PMU) schemes. Furthermore, the Bank has assisted in
exploring and recommending solutions to resolve these common issues and
problems.
2.04        In relation to project implementation of Bank-assisted projects,
the professional staff of the Bank (and the consultants it hired when
necessary) performed regular supervision missions. These supervision missions
were primarily composed of professionals with expertise in various physical
aspects of these projects and in finance. On these areas of specialization
the assistance of the Bank has been most useful. On the other hand, these
projects have smallholders components. The supervision missions, conducted by
the Bank and the field trips, for monitoring performance by the Directorate
General of Estates in relation to NES projects have observed and concluded
that the nucleus estates are more successful than smallholders components.
This difference can be attributed to several factors, such as, low budgets and
delays in funding of the smallholders components; insufficient support on
extension, development of smallholders organizations and at least key farmers'
training; and inadequate coordination of agencies involved in implementation.
Earlier involvement from the Bank to provide the Government assistance along
these lines would have improved the performance of these projects. In relation
to supervision missions by the Bank, a skill mix to include specialists on
food crops agronomy, extension, farmers' training and smallholders'
organizations would have been very useful; considering the financial
constraints of Government. Financial assistance in these aspects would also
have been useful.
2.05        Notwithstanding these retrospective perceptions, the officers and
professionals of the Bank worked closely with Government agencies to address
not only project site specific issues and problems but systemic issues. The
supervision missions' aide-memoires were useful in the preparation of action
plans to address identified issues and problems. The Bank actively
participated in the preparation of actions plans and in the follow-up of
agreed actions. Meetings when required with Government agencies concerned
were initiated by either party and were conducted as follow-up to resolve
issues and problems.
Borrower's Performance
2.06        The Government of Indonesia identified the project areas which
were included in the NES VI Project with the assistance of the Bank. Resource
surveys were conducted by PTP XII, PTP XXIII and PTP XXVIII and the
feasibility study was prepared by a consulting firm. Based on these studies,



- 14 -
the Bank appraised the proposed NES VI project. During project preparation by
the Government of Indonesia and the appraisal by the Bank, Government agencies
concerned participated in supplying information and in the series of meetings
and discussions conducted. The project design for the NES VI project followed
those of the previous NES projects and was adapted to the peculiarities of
each project site.
2.07        Even with the participation of Government agencies concerned
during the project preparation phase, a higher level of detailed coordination
of these agencies concerned was required for implementation. Manpower
constraints were likewise encountered both as to numbers and capabilities.
These shortfalls were not reasonably assessed during the preparation stage.
Financial constraints also occurred especially in relation to the smallholders
components.
2.08        During project preparation the strengthening of the nucleus
estates implementing agencies was identified and consultants on finance and
the physical components of the project were provided. The consultant
requirements were implemented. Though these consultant services were
valuable, they were not sufficient to address manpower capabilities
considering that there was no provision for training of personnel of the
nucleus estates implementing agencies and no consultant requirements to
address the requirements of the smallholders in the areas of extension,
farmer's organization and farmers' training.
2.09        Coordination between provincial Government agencies  concerned
were inadequate. This resulted in delays in farmers' recruitment and
selection, the land allocated in certain cases was not suitable, land
allocation in certain cases was delayed and implementation of social
infrastructure on smallholder villages was not on time.
2.10        Aside from delays enumerated above, delays in implementation of
other physical components as a result of delays and inadequate funding was due
to financial constraints of Government. The financial constraints were a
result of the decline in prices of petroleum and primary commodities which
affected Government revenues.
2.11        Due to the number of NES projects and their geographical
dispersal, the manpower capabilities of Team Khusus was not sufficient to cope
with the work load. The manpower capabilities of Team Khusus was influenced
by the financial constraints affecting Government. Nonetheless, Team Khusus
played a vital role as the main link between the Bank and Government agencies
concerned especially at the central level, coordinating with the nucleus
estate implementing agencies not only for NES but also for PIR projects for
which it had responsibility.
Borrower and Bank Relations
2.12        The Government of Indonesia and the Bank had close coordination
during project preparation, appraisal and implementation of the NES VI and
other NES projects assisted by the Bank. The staff from the Resident Staff in
Indonesia and later on from then Bank's headquarters in Washington, D.C , USA
maintained close coordination with Government agencies concerned and with the
PTPs. The Director General of Estates coordinated closely with the Bank and



- 15 -
its staff in relatior. to major issues and problems. Team Khusus coordinated
closely with the Bank in relation to supervision missions, meetings and
discussions, including agreements on action plans and follow-up of NES
projects assisted by the Bank.
2.13        The Bank was prompt in responding to requests for assistance in
resolving project issues and problems and in amending provisions of Loan
Agreements when required, including extensions of Closing Dates. This
contributed to the success of the NES projects assisted by the Bank. The
professionals of the Bank were responsive in providing assistance when
requested.
Lessons Learned
2.14        During project preparation, the availability and suitability of
the land had to be firmed up; manpower capabilities of the PTPs and at least
critical Government agencies concerned supporting the actual implementation
have to be sufficiently assessed as to numbers and competence required for
implementation and when required the necessary training and consultant
services to improve performance in various functional areas included in the
project design; stable, timely and adequate funding from local sources
identified especially for the smallholder components; and the project design
should take into account experience of the past which can be solved by
redesigning the project, such as, the basis methods of payments and adequacy
of fees paid to the PTPs inspection services and mechanism for coordination.



- 16 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Year of
Jomn Title                      Purpose         Approval/a  Status          Comments
NES I (Loan 1499-IND)      Support GOI's tree    78        Completed   PCR issued 6/88
NES II (Loan 1604-IND)    crop program /b          78      Completed   PCR issued 6/88
NES I'l  (Loan 1751-IND)                           80      Completed   PCR issued 3/89
NES IV (Loan 1835-IND)                             80      Completed   PCR issued 2/90
NES V (Loan 2007-IND)                              81      Ongoing      Closes 12/31/90
NES VII (Loan 2232-IND)                            83      Ongoing      Closes 12/31/90
TCPP (Loan 3000-IND)       Improve oil palm and  89        Ongoing      Closes 09/30/90
rubber processing
capacity and
efficiency
/a   IBRD fiscal year.
/b   All seven Bank-financed NES projects have an identical purpose -- supporting
GOI's program for the development of the major tree crops (rubber, oil palm and
coconuts), using public estate companies (PTPs) to plant and maintain tree crops
up to maturity for poor and landless project participants.



- 17 -
Table 2: Project Timetable
Date               Date
Item                           Planned            Revised               Actual
Identification                                                               12/1/
(Issues Paper)
Preparation/Preappraisal                                                     0bj8(
Appraisal Mission                                                            08/81.
Loan Negotiations                                                            02/82
Board Approval                        11/81                                  04/82
Loan Signing                                                                 04/82
Loan Effectiveness                                                           07/82
Loan Closing                          06/88               06/89              06/89
Loan Completion                       12/87               06/88              04/89



I 18 -
Table 3: Loan Disbursements
Disbursrments (US$ mTllton)
Bank and Fiscal Yoar          Appraisal      Revised      Actual     Actual Xa 
and Quarter                  cumulative    cumulative   cumulative   of appraTsaI
1983  1                                       1.01        1.01
2                                       1.01        1.01
3                                       1.08        1.08
4                          .70          1.15        1.08         260
1984  1                         1.85          1.38        1.31           70
2                         3.00          1.82        1.75          58
3                         5.50          2.29        2.22          40
4                         8.00          3.58        3.51          44
1985  1                         11.50         5.80        5.73           50
2                         15.00         8.31        8.24          55
3                         le.5          8.68        8.61          47
4                         22.00         9.56        9.49         .43
1986  1                         26.50         10.06       9.99           38
2                         31.00         10.55       10.48         34
3                         35.50         11.80       11.73         33
4                         40.00         13.86       13.79         34
1987  1                         46.00         14.34       14.27    ,   31
2                         31.00         10.55       10.48         34
3                         35.50         11.80       11.73         33
4                         40.00         13.86       13.79         34
1988  1                         65.05         16.55       16.48         25
2                         68.10         16.77       16.70         25
3                         68.10         16.82       17.75         25
4                         68.10         17.37       18.30         27
1989  1                         68.10         17.76       18.69         27
2                         68.10         18.09       19.02         28
3                         68.10         19.29       20.02         29
4                         68.10         19.46       20.19         30
1990  1                                       20.66       20.20         30  /a
2                                       21.86       20.87         31  /a
3                                       21.86       22.32         33  /a
/a Actual as I of revised schedule.
Date of Final Disbursement: January 10, 1990



1 19 _
Table 4. Proiect Implementation
Appraisal   Revised   Actual at
Indicators                                Unit      Estimate   Estimate  Completion /a
A. Smallholder Development
1. Cikaso & ARrabinta (PTP XII)
a. Coconut Planting                   Ha         5,500                   4,950
b. Roads:
- Access                           km            21                      34
- Village                          km           100                       0
- Farm tracks                      km           150                       0
c. Settler Houses
- New construction                 No         1,850                     421
- Rehabilitation                   No           930                     478
d. Smallholder Families               No          3,667                  3,300
2. Seluma (PTP XXIII)
a. Rubber Planting                    Ha         9,500       5,800       5,800
b. Roads
- Vlllage                          Km           120                     118
- Collection                       KM           285                     189
c. Settler Houses
- New construction                 No         4,100       2,250       2,180
- Rehabilitation                   No           650         650          98
d. Smallholder Families               No          4.750                  2,900
B. Nucleus Estate Development
1.  Cikaso/Aprabinta (PTP XII)
a. Rubber Planting                    Ha         2,140                   2,114
b. Rubber Rehabilitation              Ha         1.370                     520
c. Coconut Planting                   Ha           500                       0
d. Coconut Rehabilitation             Ha           480                       0
e. Roads
- Village                          Km            30                      23
- Collection                       Km            70                      56
f. Processing Facilities
- Rubber factory rehab.            No             1                       1
- Copra mill                       No             1                       0
2. Seram (PTP XXVIII)
a. Rubber Planting                    Ha         4,000       1.500       1.500
b. Coconut Planting                   Ha         3,000                   3.000
c. Cocoa Planting                     Ha             0         200         223
d. Roads
- Access                           Km            40                      30
- Village                          Km            80                      98
- Collection                       Km           175                     117
d. Processing Facilities
- Rubber factory (40 ton/day)    No               1                       1
- Copra mill                       No             1                       1
3. Seluma (PTP XXIII)
a. Rubber factory (40 ton/day)/b    No               1                       1
/a The Bank Loan was closed before all planned project activities were completed.
Financing for the remaining activities is provided under the parallel CDC loan.
/b Financed under Loan 2007-IND (NES V).



- 20 -
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Appraisl Estimate       Revisd /a            Actual /a
Item                              Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total  Lical For-ign Total
Smajlholder Dv.loem nt
PTP XIICikaso A Agrablnta)      14.6  18.0  30.8  18.1  14.4  27.5   8.8   4.2  10.8
PTP XXIII (Bengkulu)             24.9  22.4  47.8  16.2  13.7  28.9   7.7  10.5  18.1
Subtotal                     39.6  88.4  77.9  28.8  28.1  68.4  14.8  14.7  28.9
Nucleus Estate
PTP XII (CMkaso 4 Agrebinta)      11.0  18.0  29.0   8.8  15.9  22.7   9.2   2.4  11.6
PT? XXIII (Bongkulu)              1.6   1.8   2.8   0.9   1.1   2.0   1.1   0.3   1.4
PNP XXVIII (Seram)               29.6  81.8  80.8  18.2  27.6  46.8  13.4   9.0  22.4
Subtotal                     42.0  60.6  92.8  25.9  44.6  70.6  23.7   11.7  36.4
Technical Assistance                4.6  14.9  19.6   2.8  18.2  16.0   0.7   4.9   6.6
Total                        86.1  103.9 190.0  67.0  86.9 142.9  88.7  81.3  89.9
/a Project costs were revised in 1986 to reflect d-valuation of the Rupiah and reduction
In project targets.
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                                      Planned         Revised        Actual /a
---------      US$ '000--------------
IBRD/IDA Expenditure Categories                    68.1 lb         22.4           22.3
CDC                                                 28.0           28.0           14.8
Other External Sources /c                            8.9            0.0            0.0
Domestic                                            86.1           36.0           32.8
Total                                       191.1            86.4           69.9
/a Amounts as of April 30, 1990.  As project implementation is continuing,
actual project costs and amounts financed by CDC and GOI will be different
by the expected completion (June 1991) of remaining project activities.
/b Includes front-end fee of US$1.1 million.
/c Suppliers' credits.



- 21 -
Table 6: Project Results
A. Economic Impact
Appraisal
estimate           PCR Estimate
Economic rate of return
Smallholder Development
Cikaso                            13                 12.5
Agrabinta                         18                 14.1
Bengkulu                          14                 11.4
Nucleus Estate Development
Cikaso                            11                  9.6
Agrabinta                         12                 11.8
Seram                             13                 11.1
Total Project                       NA /a              12.0
Underlying Assumptions
Price:                          1982 Constant            World Bank Commodity
price projections as of
February 28, 1990
adjusted to 1990
constant terms.
Conversion Factors:             1.2, 1.4 and 0.65        1.2, 1.5 and 0.8 for
for fertilizers/         labor, fertilizers/
agro-chemicals and       agro-chemicals and other
other inputs re-         inputs, respectively.
spectively.
Exchange rate to US$1.00       Rp 625                    Average quarterly
actual exchange
rates. /b
/a ERR for whole project was not estimated at appraisal.
/b Source: International Monetary Fund: International Financial Statistics.



- 22 -
B. Financial Impact
Appraisal                PCR
Estimate               Estimate
Financial rate of return
Smallholder Development
Cikaso/Abrabinta                             N/A /a                  15.2
Seluma                                       N/A                    12.5
Nucleus Estate Development
Cikaso/Agrabinta                             N/A                    13.4
Seram                                        N/A                    12.2
Total Project                           N/A                    13.9
/a Financial rates of return were not estimated at appraisal.



Table 7: Record of Compliance with Major Covenants
ASS COV1ANT DATABASE    PAGE    1 OF RtRuT SD20A  RUN DATE 01/09/91
DW0SIA
REVIEW (F LOIN CNENWTS
U)AN/MIT: L-212M  PROJECT: NLCBLELS ESTATS AND SlUOUDERS VI EF: 07/23/82 APP: 04/15/82 SECTOR: A(RICULTUE
(AS OF 01/0991)
TYPE OF   LUDATE CLR ST
SECTICN             ONEN04T   DATE   CODE   DESCRIPTION (F COA(NENTW                       GRENT CRE)W4T STA1U; DESCRIPTION
LDAN
ART. 3.01(A)        Fl       04/30/90      4 B(MER SiALL PRGPLY PRNIDE RWS                00I WkS MNT IN CO(LLANCE "RDC PECT
REWUDIED FOR CARYIN  OUT THE PROJECT.      DRLEWNTATION PERIM. G1I DID NUT PROVIDE
9FFICIEN  R14S ID FINANCE ALL PLRO
PROJECT ACTIVITIES* AND R.WS WM UJSALLY
RELEASED AFrER LLNf DELAYS.
ART. 3.01(B) (1)    F7       04/30/90      2 BORR0%R TO !B3D TO PARTCICPATD  ESTATE    IN CG.RI*CE; AGFEAENT EXE)UTD.
R}S FODR I 8R  t TH PMECT UNDER TU
AND CONDrI\NS IN SOaDE S.
ART. 3.01(B) (II)   VI       04/30/90      2 T0R  T ESRE TWT PROJECT IS CMIED    IN COiklItE.
OMg IN ACCCRWANCE WI1H TtE (RWIZATION AND
MANAGBENTJ ARRANGBlENT IN S(rEDULE 7.
ART. 3.01 (C)       F7       04/30/90      2 MAE AVAIAE ADDITIONAL  RW MT ESTATES    IN CDLINCE.
tS.-fu 6)  CARRY WY ESTATE DEVELffABNT.
ART. 3.02           I        04/30/90      2 ELY            N 9STANTIALLY IN              IN CQfLIaNCE.
ACCCR)AN4C WITH SOE)LLE 9.                                                                                 L
ART. 3.03(A)        I        04/30/90      4 SI TOM BTER 3NTO SLI1   CMEIT                NOT IN CDPUAICE- CONNUMON I(F SWULHOLDE
ARMBRS WIMH SETllERS - TBAS OF SE R1L    TREE 0RtP DEkM4T  EXPBDITU?RES INTO
LOANB GIVBN. (CUNERSIION (F E)FENDI1RES    CREDITS IS S8RIaQJSY BEHD1D SOEDlE )UE T
INTO LO".)                     ~~~~DELAYS BY G)I AGNIESARI, OPN B* & DOM)
IN) CARRYDl lW  LWO CERTIFICATICN ALIT OF
E)EWrIRES ANO TEICAL EVNUAtTkIN (F
PLANTDIGS PRIOR TO CONERSION.
ART. 3.03(B)        I        04/30/90      2 DOE AND PiPS XII AD )OIII TO ENTER INTO      IN C0UIANCE.
SALLHOLDER DEVhENT AGRENTS.
ART. 3.04(A)        M3       04/30/90      2 DGE (ASSISTED BY TEAM IQWJS) TO PREPARE AND  IN CD LINE.
SDMIT XtUAL WORK PROM"N AN) OJXGT TO
BM_eA  AN) WNIS    OF FINANCE BY 10/31
EACH YEAR BEGIN'ING 1031182.
ART. 3.04(0)        M3       04/309        2 EACH ESTAIE AND            SLfT u   WM       IN CO8iR-E.
W3R( PRMRAM AND BJYET TO DDE BY 10/15 -
START 10/15/82.
*s**.SATElS CMES****V*   T     YPEN_ANT TYPE CDESOD
1&tlJAVAI8E           DISTITUTI- I=EATEREVISUDAE ORGANI-                           F4F INCI  RATIO
2=IN COWlANCE         NAL:           ZikTIMD;UE MGWT A MIS;                              E1E         RATI T   CE RAT
sPARTLY COWLIED                      7      S  8EIB4 OR WIH                        F     CRI  O OF PRDCtSRA
4'NaT IN CDTFIANCE                   AGENIES                                       F7::RWVISI(N OF LOCAL RIS
=TO BE WkIVED/DELEIED IR-            S       IOF IlT                                 FzR8PARE SECTOR 1NESTA    PRAM
60  UNG LER RELLANT   IAL:          TlIN tPUNACUTIICN                              FSEVEL CF WflSTAND)IW ARES
7=TO BE AUD                          lCL RCrITNN                                  F10:SSET REALUJATION- DEPRECIATIOIN
9ANUT YEr DLE                        DEVEU  ACOLNTING Y_*                TEGOC-  T=/    ARLVION STANS
_  DEQATE TRADl  POGPAM                CAL:      T24AND ACSIMCN & MAPPDI
M3IWM( PRRAMALOGET PREP'D                        T3&ITE SEL.ECICN
FINW-       FlSIGNLING OF SUBSIDIARY                         T4=DETAILED BDCBJNEEI
IAL:          AGREBiwM                                       T5=ENSUR 0 A M PLAN4 A R*0ING
F2RATES OF FETIRN                                T&eND04T
F3=CST RECUVERY A  T. RATES            OTERS:   TOTlfRS
____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           



Table 7: Record of Compliance with Major Covenants (Cont.)
ASS WOVEANT DATABASE   PACE    2 OF F(RE    S(D20k MN DATE 01/09/91
DD04ESIA
REVIEW CF LCW CDM0NTS
LJDW/CEDIT: L-2125 PFROECr: NXLES ESTAlES AND SILHU1       VI EFF: 07/23/82 APP: 04/16/82 SECMR: AQRICLlUE
(AS OF 01/09/91)
-YPE OF   LPDATE C.R ST
SECNG              CIBWT    DATE   aDE   DESRWPTION OF CXlT                            ORW6T CNEiT STAlS DESOUFTIIN
LOAN
ART. 3.08          MTH      04/3D/90      4 TIE BaER SiALL CME 'HE X CC4JT             NDT IN CLUi4lC: CODNJT PROWSING
PRDCESSDG FACIXIT   LW6E PART 8.1(8)      FACILIT    AT CIKASO D AGDfA 1  Nar
B.3 TM BE CDEEY 12l            1  31/87 8EN ES           BY LON   S.
ETIVELTY.  UP XII 7AT
APPROPRIATE PRICE ANY CONW  PRMUCTG
SETLBRS OFFER R1C SALE AFTER 12/31/88 IF
wLE7MN DaAYED.
ART. 3.09         1         04/30/90      4 TO IS9JE LA  USE CEIFICATES TO SErlB6S    NOT IN COFLIaE: IS.WbM OF LAW CTI-
AFTR 3 YEARS OF SETMl BT DI CENY IlEM TO  FICATES IS BlIUC SOEThlE OE TO DELAYS BY
THOSE SE111ES FOND DEFICI(WT IN TEIR CW   UPN.
IN THE AREA  O   We   ) CR IN 'DE
ART. 3.10           FS       04/30/90     3 PTP XI AND PTP 10(In TO PWS ALL            PARTLY IN CIOWLANCE: PIP XI tOT IN
PROCESA8L 1BBE6 CR COCC) FROM SETL0S   aUMUAICEE DLE 70 INMElWAaIE IN PROCSSD
AT PRICE DETEIdD) BY PRNCIPLES SET OuT IN  FACSLTI.
SClU.LE 8. ALL SETiLtS TO SELL, AT LEAST
NTrr10M F RU* CR COWiJ TO PIPS &
NEEDED   AMORT T (DEEfLIGATIGE.
ART. 4.08(A)        FS      04/30/90      2 P7P XII M  PIP )DC(II M IAINTAIN A LWm-TM  IN CGDUMCE.
DEST M JIT1 RATIO OF 80:40. PIP ICCIM
1S YEARS OF    M      AD4MWMTAIN 70:
SD RATIO - MfwL*1E  AT ALL TE80:0.
PTP XII AM  PTP XVII TO CCIO.LT WSi BM
BF   LWERTAMUl AWNYN DEW  WT4
PRllECT EXCEH)D  RP 1.S B OR PIP XOII
kIXDA.N IS R? 20 8).
ART. 8.01           I       04/30/90      2 ALL CITISm PFRE TTO OFECTMES (F   N CGFUACE.
CDC LOAN AdTBEN RLFIDED.
SCH. 1, PARA. 4(B)   F7      04/30/90     2 RWUG EN13 (PARA.A3.0&MM     COPLErED. N C3FL*CE.
SIaoNC OF Aa Ewl                  E BA1
DGE/WSATES.
SCH. 1, PARA. 4(C) T2       04/30/90      2 ISSIMCE(F LEASE TO PIP OYI F  LM  AT  IN COILINCE.
*&STAJS 0CDES*lr TY P lWE   __ MM'--. TyPE
lWLVADLE A6TIlTI   IlEAIEVISEl                    ATE aRGAI-                     F4=SELF-FlNCDG RATIO
I CAIPLIANCE         NAL:            ATIM     R         A MIS;                   FWEETAE1   RATm- DEBT SEICE RATM
aPARTLY CWLPIS)                     iiig&    BETM   CR WITH                      FO8RIC    FFGR ff               RATIO
4=NOT IN COWLME                     AENCIES                                      F7RDSMIXN af LOCAL RPAX
S=TO BE  E1MMETED  Wt#M-         M}9JPEVISMON OF DBWAE    S                       WFSREPARE SEC1tR DfESIEPT PGRIAM
OM LNER FtLEVMT   I&:               TIM. % OACTIW                                F9:EVEL fF OUTSTMOD  ARMAS
7--C BE AkMD                        DM           PAWCrIaCL.          ,F10SSET REVAUIMTICN; D4EIATDN
9*VT YEr DlE                        DeEELCP ACMLNTlC StSTte            TECHN-  TIa IRUCTON STANDAmS
__ MEUTE IPARM  POWAM                CAL:      T2:LAND AOWISrM A WPPITF
M     P    /R/AVETF PR'D                       T3=SI  SELEtmM
FMN-       F     1zSIN    OF SU3SIDIR                      T4=OETA) D&NB
ALN:          AE8T                                         TSea  JR     A M I PLNM A RID4G
WATES (F RE1UNI                                T1O84V 0ET
F3ST FECOVE  A Df M. RATES           unTin:  oa rT1s
__~~~~~~~~~~~~------



Table 7: Record of Compliance with Major Covenants (Cont.)
ASS CDTMT DATAASE    PAG      3 OF RS'CRT SW2DA RIN DATE 01/09/91
DDNEIA
REVMN Off LOW CMW
LDANW)MIT: L-212  PROECT: 14JEUS ESTATES AN) SlULIDERS VI E5F: 07/23/82 AFP: 04/15/82 SECTtR: AaRIOLJ..1E
ATRENM                                                 (AS OF 01/09/91)
TYPE OF   LPDATE  LR ST
SECTICN            CDBWJT   DATE   CDE   DESOUPTION OF CWD~                          GlRT WENWT STAR$ DESOCRPTI(N
SCH. 1, PAPA. 4(C)   T2     04/30/90     2 SE.
&TAlUS CMDES*    ------9YMNT TYPE               -------                                    rYPE -Z--
14VAWABLE            DP6ITUTIM- I  REVIEA TE  ANI-                            F4SElF-FD4MCG RATIO
2dN CEJLI*(E         ML:             AI6;          T  MIS;                     FEDEBT   1  RATIO DEBT SERVICE RATM
ARTLY C0FLIED                              SEMN1 CR WrH                      F     AffRIC PaFPRW S
*4*VT DlCDIU*%I                    ACENCIES                                   F74RtYIaN OF LOCAL RKS
5=TO BE kIVED/DaELET W%A-    MI=SPeNISICN OF MUMMA-                            F8&4RFARE SECTOR lNESI ff PROWM
NOm LONMR REYANT   IAL:            TmJN. %t  sACTaRTMF   OF   TAW)DIC AiEMARS
7=TO BE A3)                        DMW             ACICN                      F1SSET REVALLMLTIGN- DEECIATIO
S4QT YEr DLE                       OEVEP ACCO.TD S7STE)              TEGC-  TlSrCCICN STfAMSARW
_M_   E  TRADIG POIAM                CAL:     T2:L;  AaJISMN   MM*PPB
M     PRORMACIET PREP'D                       T&T1E 
FINc-      F     wI I F 9SLDMU                           T4=DETALM EN ERIG
IAL:         ARGENT                                      T5kBRE 01A M PLMAN  R.WD4G
FMATES OF IER4N                               T&MUM_r BT
FP4T VEWM3  A D W. RATES             MM:  0THZ0   M



26 -
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Planned/a   Revised/a    Actual
Cycle                        HQ  Field   HQ  Field   HQ  Field          Comments
Through Appraisal                                        38.6
Appraisal through Board                                   8.2
Approval
Board Approval through                                    /a
Effectiveness
Supervision                                              61.8
Total                                             108.6
Note: Breakdown between HQ and Field staff is not available.
/a Not available.
B. Missions
Speciali-     Perform.
Stage of          Month/    No. of       Days       zation       and Rating  Type of
Project Cycle        Year    Persons/a  in Field  Represent./b   Status/c  Problems/d
Through APR          08/81      6(2)          28     AE,A,PE
APR through Board   02/82          2                       CE
Board through        07/82
Effectiveness
Supervision          01183      3(2)          10           A          2         M,F,T
08/83     2(1)          10         FA,A          3      F.M,T,P
11/83     2(1)           6         FA,A          2           F.M
09/84     3(1)           8         FA,A          3      F,M,T,P
02/85         2         10         A,FA          3      F,M,T,P
07/85        2           8         A,FA          3           F,M
12/85     3(1)          10      A,FA,CE          3        M,F,T
09/86        2           8          A,F          3           M,F
07/87     2(1)           7            A          3        M,T,F
03/88         1         10            A          3        M,T,F
02/90         1          8           FA          3           M,T
/a  Most missions comprised Bank and CDC staff.  The number in parenthesis indicates
mission members from CDC.
/b Key to specialization: FA=Financial Analyst; A-Agriculturalist; AE=Agricultural
Economist; CE=Civil Engineer; PE=Processing Engineer.
/c Key to Status: l=Problem free or minor problems; 2=Moderate problems; 3=Major
problems.
id  Ke(y  to Problems:  F--Fin)ancial; M-Managerial: T=Technical; P=Political.



- 27 -
Table 9: Rubber, Coconut and Cocoa Yield Profile
Indonesia
Nucleus Estate and Smallholder VI
Project Completion Report
CopralRubber/Cocoa Yield Assumption
Planting   Copra Classification (Kg/Ha)   Rubber Classification (Kg/Ha) I Cocoa
Year      A       B       C       D       A       B       C       D     (Kg/Ha)
4    347    278    208        139                                      240
5    627    502    376    251                                         600
6   1107     886    664    443    400    299                          800
7    1246    997    748    498    900    672                          1000
8   1869    1495    1121    748    1100    821    260    206          1050
9    1869    1495    1121    748   1200    896    585    464          1120
10   2215    1772   1329    886   1300    971    714    567           1200
11   2492    1994   1495    997    1400    1045    779    618         1150
12   3115   2492   1869   1246   1450   1083    844    670            1100
13   3115   2492    1869    1246   1450   1083    909    721          1100
14   3115   2492    1869    1246   1450   1083    942    748          1050
15   3115   2492    1869    1246   1450   1083    942'    748         1050
16   3115   2492    1869   1246    1400   1045    942    748          1000
17   3115   2492    1869    1246   1350    1008    942    748         1000
18   3115   2492    1869    1246   1300    971    909    721          1000
19   3115   2492    1869    1246   1250    933    877    696          1000
20   3115   2492    1869    1246    1200    896    844    670          1000
21   3115   2492    1869    1246   1150    859    812    644           1000
22   3115   2492    1869   1246   1100    821    779    618            1000
23   3115   2492    1869   1246   1050    784    747    593            1000
24   3115   2492    1869    1246    950    709    714    567           1000
25   3115   2492    1869   1246    850    635    682    541            1000
26   3115   2492    1869    1246    750    560    617    490          1000
27   3115   2492   1869    1246    650                552    438       1000
28   3115   2492    1869    1246    550               487    387      1000
29   3115   2492   1869   1246    450                                 1000
30   3115   2492   1869   1246    350                                 1000
06-Jun-90



Annex 1: Table l(a)
Indonesia
NES VI Project Completion Report
Price Projection of Selected Commodities & Fertilizers
Financial and Economic 1990 Constant Value
Commodity                  Dcscription                              UNIT      1985      1986     1987     1988     1989      1990     1991     1992     1995    2000
COPRA                      EXPORT PARITY
+        CIF Rotterdam                           S/ton       557      242      347       416      365      345      359       372      414      381
-4-      Freight and Ins.                                     54       54        54       54       54       54        54       54       54       54
=        FOB Ind. Port                           Rp/kg       906      339      527       652      560      524      S50       573      648      589
--       Ttransport & Handling                                25       25        25       25       25       2S        25       25       2S       25
-4-      Adjustment for losses (5% of FOB) a/                 45        17       26       33       28       26        27       29       32       29
-1-      Traders' margins (5% of FOB)                         45        17       26       33       28       26        27       29       32       29
=        Eeoonomic farmgte price                             790      280      449       562      479      446      470       491      559      505
=        Fnmancia fartngate price  b                         632      224      359       449      383      368      399       429      503      454
RUBBER                     EXPORT rARITY                                                                                                                                          c
+        RSS-I CIF NY                            c/kg        133      117       126      135      118       93       99       114      138      136
-1-      Freight and Ins.                                      6        6         6        6        6         6        6        6        6        6
-1-      Less qualityq  15% of RSS NY                         20        18       19       20       18        14       15       17       21       20
=        SIR20-FOB Ind. Port                     Rp/kg      1924     1680     1814      1956     1690     1315     1408      1643     1997     1980
-I-     ProcessinglTransport/Handling                        160      160      160       160      160      160      160       160      1160     160
-4-      Traders' Margins (5% of FOB)                         96       84        91       98       85        66       70       82      100        99
=        Economic farmgate price                            1668     1436      1563     1698     1446     1089      1178     1401     1737     1721
=        Financid farmgato price  c/                        1335     1149      1251     1358     1157      899      1001     1226     1'i63    1549
COCOA   dl                                                          Rpkg        5       1500   ,500       1500      1500     1500     1        1500      1i0|   1500
aI losses due to inects and soibge.                                                                                                                              06-ju3
U assumed that due to continuing (01 deregulation of the edible oils market, the rumncial fanagate pnce of
coprr will rach 90% of be eonomic farmgate price by 1995 (10% difference due to VAT).
cl assumed dhat the finncial fumgatc price of rubber will eacb 90% of the economic fannpte price by 1995
(10% difference due to VAT).
dl amed that the fiuunciaUeconmic femmgate price is Rp 1500 comant.



Annex 1: Table 1(b)
Indonesia
Nucleus Estates And Smaliholder VI
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
PTP XII Cikaso Smailholder Component
0       5       2       3      41      5       6       7       I       9      50      -I      12      23      14      55      26      57     isI t    20            21      22      23      24      25      26      27     23      29      30
DOm-wc                191      M91    593   391       3915   51     2927   5913        M 191    59    5995    599    299     194   599    1996   I997   599    599    2000   2005   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2003   200     2010   2051
C~uP5eo Am:
almA                            211    343    137               517    405       31
C B                                     5  06    53              53    225      t0
a," C                                    37      20              20      44       3
ci~~~~ D ~~64                         35              35      76       6
TOWS                          211    550    300               300    650       s0
Copi Y5c5d A-AptSo
almA                                                    347    627   5507   1246   5369   1369   2255   2492   3115   3555   3115   3155   3125   3535   3115   3115   3115   3115   3515   3155   3113   3155   3113   3115   3115   3115   3115
am. 3                                    ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~27  3502    I16    99  495   2495   17m    1994   2492   2492   2492   2492   2492   2492   2492   249    2492   2492   2492   2492   2492   2492   2492   2492   2492   2492   2492 
Cal:Ca                                                 203    376    664    74   12 52        5525'   5329    495   5169   580169569   5169   5169   1369   1369   1369   5369    1369   1369   5369   5169   2369   1369   1369   1569   5169   3369
am. D                                                   539    255     443    4    1 74        743    336    997    1246   1246   1246   1246   5146   1246   1246    1246   1246   1246   1246   5246   1246   1246   2246   5246   1246   3246   1246                       5
TO oGa hd (Coptaooa5
I M 2pIuolo                                              73    133    234    263    395    395    468    527    659    659    69    659    659    659    659    659    659    659    65   9 49    659                          59    659    659    659    659    659
- 913 pSuoh.g                                                   565    29      526    592    31        3US   1053   1114   141    1435   5435    5415   54813   3415   5415   1435    1411   1435   1s1   5415   1415   141 12432   545    1413   5431
- 984 plinog                                                            90    156    217    323    435    415    574    646    303    33    30B    30                 303      on3    o03    SW3    SM        13      8    10Sl3              DU      3W      8M     30
-9 SIpiamaing0                                                                           0       0 0  0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      0           0       0           0       0       0       0           0
91 pSaog                                                                               90     .163    217    323    435    as35        74    646   3SW       30      10      303    30       303    $QB    on        SD      on      3       SW      SD      13    303
m 11?3imihq                                                                                    295    352    622    700   5050   5050   1244   1400   2750   1750   3750   1750   1750   1750   5750   5750   1750   5750   5750   5750   5750   1750
- #lmpImGli                                                                                             I5      27      43      54      33      II      96    too    535    335    135    135    135    135           135    135    135    135    135    135    133
-TOW (Copm/Ta3                                           73  297  622  952536451964 2495 3036 3650  4373  4652  4911  525056525639563956395639556396395S639536 39639 56395639   5639  5639
Ec. PiimiX1IRp                                           790    230    449    542    479    446    470    493           513    53       S59    541    537    526    515    505    50o    S0W    505    505    50o              S0W    50o      5        0     50       0
REVENUE                                                   53     33    279    535    654    376   1173   1491   171   2341   2400   2694   2113   2951   2906   2141   241   2343   2143   2143   2141   2143   2343   2143   234    2143   2143
IoVmz. COu.JMh..                                                                                                       0
Crop 13ew./14.h.         I37    261    604    73       774    173   1310    664    464    464    464    464    464    464    464    464    464    464    464    464    464    464    464    44    464                         464    464    464    464    464    464
Osk   Cuedis EzP.                to      St      33     39    233    234    1IS        706    353    313    313    313    331          313    216    236    21        236    216    257    25?    257    257    257    232    232    232    232    232    232
0wabcm&                          37     21       56       7     73    107    262    232        101      91      93      95      92      951 2 82  32             2     32      32      74      74      74      74      74      46      66      4   6   6       66      66
TOTALCOSTS                17    3563683          3791020    2334   5652    1114   1452    913    373            3733873    731731328                 32    332 8     32     332  7n5795            79 5    795 795  70   62    762    762    762    762    762
METrINCR. BE4EFrr    -17   -316   -633   4879   -762  -2203  -1372   -579   -793                -42    300    613    9M        1469   5723   5362   1916   2320   2074   2016   2053   2053   2053   205    20.   2036   2036   203    2036   203    2036
BEogs. R. of Rctum:             52.  S  (ban)                                                                                                                                        07-J..
i0.9 % (yield down 10%)
9.g % (price down 10%)
55.1 % (all costs uip 10%)



Annex 1: Table 1(c)
Indonesia
Nucleus Estates And Smaliholder VI
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
PTP XII Cikaso Nucleus Estates Component
At Rp Million (1990 Constant)
0       3      2        3      4       3       6        7      a        91     t0      Is     32      53      14      33      16      17      Is      39      20      25      22      23      24      23     29      27      23      29      30
sa-00ia             5901   IM3    19313   334   1933   I93    5937   I9M            I93    1990    991   ("I2  3991   5994   3993   3996   399    398   3999   2000   2003   200     2003   200     200    200    2007   2MO   2009   2050   2011
C.am Po.  Aw
200    200    225    29D    260
C.p- YhldA.uatio                                                 347    627   5507   5246   3969   1869   2213   249    3155   31155   3115   3113   311S   355S   3513   I1IS    3115   3115   3113   3513   3155305i  355$   33i3   355    31535
Rubba rwd A.smptio                                                       400    900   330D  3260   1300   5400   14.0   5430   1450   1340   1400   1350   1300   3230   1200   3550   3500   3050    93                        30      750    630    530    45%    35C
ToW Copv. Y204 (5m3
I 9113pdmt39s                                                    0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       5)      0       0       0      0        0      0       0       0       0       0       a       0        .
- 9S4 plmtLii                                                             0       0       0       0       0       0       0       C       0       0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0
-Teed (cep5os)                                                    0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      0        0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
TOWa Rubber YhIs (ran)
* 982 P10"im                                                             so    IS0    220    240    260    280    290    290    290    290    230    270    260    250    240    230    220    210    590    570    350    130    330                           90      70
*S983 pIst.g                                                                     80  390  2203240 260230 29022902020     230 270260 250240 2310220210390  170 350   130  530   90
l934 pSsmsa                                                                             90    205    248    270    293    313    326    326    326    326    335    304    295    203                 270    259    24        236    214    393       569    346    1;4
-3983pw3.sg                                                                                     336    261    319    34         37    406    421    423    425    423    406    39             377    363    344       334    39       303    276    247    258        IS9
-39669106g                                                                                              304    234    284    332    338    364    37           377    377    377    3654    3351    338    32          312    2919   236    273    247    221    593
1#87Sploof                                                                                                        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
19- S9IIpI2g                                                                                                              0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       a       0       0       0
- 939 P5.o31n                                                                                                                     0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       C       0       0       0       0       0
-T*W (Rs6be,f5os)                                                        60    260    490       779   3333   3363   1497   ISM4   1630   1691   1694   1674   5643   3397  5IM    5479   1421   1362   1293    3214   1324   3000    902    733    667
EC. truclCossufCOg (RP)                                         290    449    562    479    446    470    493    333    533              39      SU8    537    326    33        303    503    50  3   53    s0o    :503    303    5             505    303    50        30
Es. prwRai6bb"M   (RVp)                                         1436   1563   169  15446   5039   1173   1401  1I05   1617   5137   1734   1733    3727   1724   1721   373 721 1                      3) 721   1723    1723    3723    3721   3723   3723   s'2 3? 725
833V8U6                                                            0    323    443       V09    848   335       1930   222   236    2366   25 231 29             93 28 32 OS    2743   2647   2546   2443   2344   222    2050    1933   1755   5553    13351   554
iovesun C46J34enms
Crop D".1maint.                         329    83      5133   2191   393    2406   1533S    264    264    264    264    264    264    264    264    264    264    264    264    264    264    264    264    264    264    24    264    264    26'
Oftcbco"                           ~~~~49   II38     73    137    204    378    36         J47    347    W4        347    147    332    332    532    1352         132    lit    339       519     li9    339      507    107       Oto    507    507    107
7T3oingy. calm                           329   9on    1636   2266   4113   2630   39t3    428    412    412    452    452                412    397    397    397    397    391    334    384    334    334    334    372    372    372    372    352    372
NosliK. saw                             -39    903   -i64  -224    -39900  -2569   -ilK          420    399    1493   543   233    2433   25355   2354   2494   2453   2333   3,263   2162   2061   3960   3342    1713                1563   3333    MI    979    777
&~,.R. o Rclsu:         9.6  1 (NWug)
8.3   % (yieIddmown0%)
7.3  % (pnke dowo 10%)
8.4  1 (all code up 10%)



Annex 1: Table l(d)
Indonesia
Nucleus Estates And Smailholder VI
Econonzic Rate of Retum Calculation
PTP Xii Agrabinta Smallholder Component
At-Rp-Mill-ion-(1990 Constant) ------ ------ --
0       1      2       1       11    .1                                      'o      .1     .2      13      14      Is      16     17      to      It             21      22      23     24      25      26      27      21     29      30
DaKrwm               1981     M        .11113    OM   OM    IM        .,       .1111T    .,;     19;     lffi    OM   'M   11*4   I"S    1006   IM       IM     It"    2000    2WI    2002    2003    2004   2003    2WG    20117    20M    2WO   2010   2011
------------------- ------ ---- -  - -  -  - - --- -- - -- ------ ------ ------ -- - -- ------ ------ - -- -  -- - -  ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------- - - --- --- -  - -
Coomm Firmed Arco:
Claw A                         211    343    4M               311    472    120
chm a                                  106    135              %      146      37
c                                  37     47              34      St      13
((13 :: D                               64      12             59      99      23
TOW                           211    3$0    700              30D    753    192
CA YWM AwwW.1w
Ilm  A                                                347    627   1007   1246   :80    :41610   nIS   2492   3115   3113   3113   3115   3115   3115   3115   3115   3115   3115   3115   3315   3113   3115   311S   3115   3113   3113   31 tS
am* 11                                                 278    SW      236    "I    A"        493   :772   :194   24n    2492   2m          2492   2492   24W    2492   2492   24ft   2492   202   2492   24M    2492   2492   2492   2492   2402   2492
Cl.  c                                                208    376    664    74    8121   1121    329    4"    110    llff   1869   :069   :K4    :11610  :1169   :NO   1369   180    111140  ISM    300    ISO    IOW    100    lftg   1869   11169
Ct  D                                                 139    231    "3    4N         745    74      M       "?   1246   1246   1246    246    246    246    240    246   1246   1246   3246   1246   1246   1246   1246   1246   3246   1246   1246
TOW Ykm (C"farce)
- im   pinving                                          73    133    234    M          395    395    468    527    6"        6"      6M      6"      6"     69      650,   6"       6"      #911   4"      GM      6*      6"     a"      6M      699    6"       GM
- Imouldeg                                                     163    2"       326    M       M       M      1033   1194   141   141   1481   141   9411   1411   9481   141   1411   1411   14n    8401   141   tOl   141   143   1421   1491
- :994 pboft                                                           210    370    670    754   1131   1131   130    1 M          111114   1=4   110114   111114   1=4   111114   1111114   111114   ION    111114   1=4   1=4   111114   1=4   Out   Is"    13164
1985 oumbs                                                                     0       0       0       a      0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0      0       0
Om    Oaming                                                                         130    271    479    338    Mg    90          OSI   1077   9346   1346   130    061   1340   134    1346   1346   ISM    1340   130    1346   1346   1346   1346
1987 O.4ft                                                                                   227    411    725    816   1224   1224   1451   1632   2041   2041   2NI   2043   2041   2041   2041   2041   2041   ZD41   2041   ZNI   "di   2%1
OM   piemwg                                                                                           98    tO4    IU       207    310    310    MI    413    317    517    597    317    St?    517    917    517    $17    317    317    317    317
Totd (C"rdron)                                         73    297    742   110    IWI   2515   3434   4M            41000   SW      4515   4851   730    7823   M?   M7   MT   M7   7027   7M                    7177   7927   7R7   7127   M7   M?   M7
FA PrWo/K&Iltp                                          790    290    449    MZ    4W         446    470    491    $13    Su         S"      sa      $37    Ud    513    so         m       so      WS    Xkg    so        so      xis    so      50      SW      so
REVENUE                                                  so     13    331    657    066   1131   1614   20M    Un    3131   3642   3753   39"    4113   4MS   4W],  4W)   4M                      4W1   4W)   40D    4003   4M           4003   4W3   4003   4OD3
crop oov./mam.          23    331    73)   1467    90    1348   1657    916    6SS '655    655    635    633    655    655    655    6"                    633    635    635    653    655    635    6"           G"      433    6"      GM      635    655    #Ss
otur Cie" FAP.                   7      67    127      57    i94    145    ZO         746    196    177    177    177    177    177    t"           I"      I"      ISOP   I"      143    143    143    343    343    I"          I"     12#    I"       325    129
O"Nb=h                   2    131       "       34     "       67      73      97    226      97      78      72      79      7B     78      70      70      70     70      70      63      63     63      63      43      37      57     57      57      57      97
TOFAL COSTS              25    40       I"    16n      9"    1609   1117S   1241   1627    938    910    910    910.   910    910    11113    M              Ob     05    US    $62    SU          on      on      SU      141    Itof    $41    $41    Sdi    641
MET INCit. MENWr    -25   -40    -W    -16n    -1037  -IM6  -154    -3114   -761    192    7N    I M                 160    Z1,61   2732   2974   *71   3230   32DI   3919   3142   3t,12   3142   3142   314U   3142   310    3162   3142   3162   3162
------------------- ------ - ---- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ---- -  - - --- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------  ----- ------ ------ ------ ---- - ------ --- - - -- -  - ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------
Eem. R. of Rdwn:               14.1  S (bmw)                                                                                                                                     07-ho
12.7 S (ykM dwe 10%)
11.7  S torice dmn 10%)
12.6  S (411 coso up 10%)



Annex 1: Table 1(e)
Indonesia
Nucleus Estates And Smaliholder VI
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
PTP XII Agrabinta Nucleus Estates Component
At Rp Million (1990 Constant)
0           I           I      4        I      6        7      S1      9       10     II      22      13      24      Is      16      27      Is      19      20      21      22      23      24      25      26      27      22     29      30
Docriptkm             1 191191 2      O9       M  I98   18    OM1    I917   29511   O9M    1990   1991    199    2993   1994   1995   1996   2997   19M    1999   2OW    2002   20M2   2003   2004   200     20N    200    200     200    2020   2022
Ciup naio Ara
comnut                      ~~~~~258    262
140    214    142       97      204     53     Ila       70.
Copr  Yidd Ag.McIM                                               347    627   2207   1246   2169   2869   2223   24912  3115   3223   3225   3215    322    3115   3115   3115   3225   3115   3125   3113   3125   3213   3123   3115   3225   3123
Rubber Y~iddAwA.ipeo                                                     400    900   2200   2200   1300   1400   1430  12   450 2           430 240    400   1350   1300   12230   1200   2350   II00   2030    950    530    750    630    530    450    330
Tow, CopC. Yidd (Toc)
- 933 9118.g                                                     90    162    216    322    483    483    572    644    303              05    805    803    305    805    W05    W0S    W0S    305    30S    305    305    305    305                  0 80 5W   80
- 19114u4IMim                                                            91    264    29        327    490    490   3S0    653    326    826            126    016    326    326    826    826    126    126            126    826    816    126    826    126    2126
Tow49 (Cope.Toun)                                                90    253    450    612    020    973   2062   2224   245    1621   1212  2622   2622   1622   2621   2622    62 1621 1 21  622   2621   262    2622   2622    1212  2622   1621
Total R.bb., Yiel (TOC)
-98 29p2imiin                                                            56    126      154    168    282       296    203    203    203    203    196    129    122    275    248    162               154    247      133    Og9    205       92      7?      63      49
-"  Plowping                                                                     es    192    235    254    278    299    320    320    32D    310    299    281    273    267    256    246    235    224    203    232    160                        139     Ila      96
* 9114p21b.wg                                                                            57    227    156    150    184    I"1    205    205    203    203              I911   292     I"4      77    170    243    256    249    134    220    206             92      78
- 9153 Pgwfin                                                                                    39      37    207    116    226        136    24       141    141    142       136    232    226    1222      226    122      107    292       92      32      73      63
-19156p2.Ctln                                                                                            42      93    214    122       235     145      5  1 512I    252       252    145    140    235    230    225    229    224           209       9      Ss      71
Om I1p4amng                                                                                                      22      so      62      66      72      73      so      to     so      so      77       74     72      69      46      63      61      so      52      47
-m 28P2meat.                                                                                                             471026    230    242           153    265    171    272    272    272         263     259    253    245    IC2    136         130    224    2222
-29SPlaraing                                                                                                                     28      43      T7      84      92     91      192    202    102    22         92      95      92       a      84      o2      77      74
-Tolu2(R.ubtflom)                                                        56    222      403    569    723    346   1023   1256   1248   2294   23217   1320   1309   12m    1248   12220   2267   1120   2066   t003    929                     353    771    687    596
Ec. Pe2.VJCpr..J3  (Rp2                                          230    449    562    479    446    410    491    523    535    559    543    537    526    525    505    305    505    50                      505    50        03    505    503        03    5WS    505
Ec. Pri~8bcliure/K  (Ip)                                      1436   2563   269  12446   1069   2278   2402    2505   2627   2137   2734   2731   1727   2724   2722    2721   1722   2722   2722   2722    2722   1721   1722    0272    1722   2721
REVEN4UE                                                          25    202    622    376    9I12  309   2734   2253   2650   3071   3222   3249   3234   309                  3926   2946   2902   287   2746   2053   2-542   2418   2217   224    2O                2843
Croptlee.(M.k.                          423    46    12223   1751   3263   IM912 227    552    352    552    ;2    552    552    552    55   S2  552      332    552 53                         2    552 2     352    552    552    532       552    552    552    552
0-doeb                              ~~~~39,    95   60    223    263    302        131     Il8     Ila    lit    228       I25    296    206    296        206    296       95      95      95      95      95      36      16     16       a6     36      86
TOW lsoat  Coca                          423    725   1308   2122    32188   2245   2329    6813    670    650    670    670    650    658    658    658    658    458    647    647    647    647    647    639    63                          633    639    638    631
a lnaw. 8.iefc.                         -423   -725  -1300  -1780  -3037  -2533   -653    291    639   1065   1483   29810   2404   2474   2492-  2476   2434   23.8   2319   2254   2279   2091   2006   2904   27252   2649   ISM3   2363   2207
Econ..R. ofRelurn:             11.8  % Ose)J                                                                                                                                         07-3=
10.2  % (vieMddowlo 1%)
8.1  % (pdrcedownl10S)
10.4  S (all coda up 10S)



Annex 1: Table 1(f)
Indonesia
Nucleus Estates And Smaliholder VI
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
PTP XXIII Seluma Smallholder Component
At Rp Million (-.990 Constant)
0       8       2       3      4        S      6        7      I       9       10     It      82      13      14      is      86      87      Is      i9      20      28      22      23      24     23       26      27      28     29       30
8Dupuoe                96 19121 I     896    89614   8915   I   1916 89       IM I9    M  8 19 990    991    I99     1W3   8O9       8993   8996   899    899    1999   2000   2008   2000   200     20046  2003   200     200     200   2009   2010   2011
Itabb= PI*f A,m:
cim A             ~~68    363    437    39         8 3    883    308    279    348        34
c8in8I  86                        7    803       94       3      27      72      67      2      83
amc               58~~~~~~1    273    338    297  80      95    228    28        258      48
am D               Si~5    273    238    294       10     9      228    280    238        48
Toed                   886   8000   8204   800          36    380    628    763    939    830
It.bber Yedd Ae.inpte                                                                                           0
3m A                                                            400    900   8800   8200   1300    8400   1450   1450   1430   1450   1400   8 350   1300   1250   1200   1150   8800   8050    930    M5                      730    630    550    450    330
amm                                                             299    672    828    1196    9788104381063810638100381003810458 1006                           978    933    696       IL 8 9    1878   4    706    633    560
am oc                                                                           260    SOS    784    779    644    909    942    942    942    942    909    977                44    9812    779    747    784    682    687    332    487
atm  i                                                                          206    464    3657    688    670    728         748    748    748    748    728    696    670    644    618    593    567    548               490    438      387
T.oe  Rob6. Yied CToo)
19O8 PImOieg                                                     32      72    882      ISO    869      893    193    899    202    202         I9"    194    it7    190    173    166    8I9          153    142    131       It7      95      82      310     24       0
m 893   ipiog                                                           171    386    600    803    909    984   :0381  8070   8066   8066   8065   1043   8003    9681   930    893    835    688s   739    701    626    5NO    44                           864    827
- 983 8p8haw                                                                    206    464    722    966   1094   8184   8249   827   8307   8307   82n8    8253   8210   8863   8820   8075   8030    9N5    914    3.4                       753    682    530    897
Om  Oww4p8                                                                              883    486    647    967    98         8062   8820   8853   8872   8872   8849   882  0  805   8043   8005    964    924    8184    820    756    676    549    475
I 898314uo6es                                                                                     6      84      22      29      33      36      37      39     39      39      38      38      36      35      34      32      38      X0      27      25      23      88
I-" 88p8mtio                                                                                             53    820    886    249    2M         305    322    338    337    337    33           323    382    300        M      277    265      254    235    287    894
I"? 87f4bg                                                                                                      842    389    496    664    733    88          859    885    89        39      898    S63    832    308        770    739    708    677    628         S80
I  89 l88io.                                                                                                            838    295    439    684    696    733    794    888    138    838             814    798    769    748    782    683    654    626    S88
-m 8989p8                                                                                                                       868    362    363    753    853    924    974   8004   8089   8089    99               979    943    909    872    938    903    768
I 8990 PIoh6                                                                                                                             26      59     90    820    836       148    856    840    863    863    860    856    858            843    840    834    828
-Toed (o                                                         32    243    704   8399   2886   2773   3422   4068   4887   5524   6076   6452   66448   6705   4698   4604   4469   6294   408    3828    5533   5889   4798    4328   3697   3069
Eo PrWItu6eolaft  RV)                                           8436   8563   169    8446    1809   8879   8408    8503   8687   8737   8724   8728    8727   8724   8728   8728    1728    8728    8728   8728   1728    8728    8728    1728   8728   8728
REVEN4UE                                                          46    380   8893   2(Kt    2305   3267   4794   6823   77819   93906  80333  88866  88478  88568  88316  88366  88833  80632  80463  10030   9522   392    8245   7449   6362   5288
CwsompD o wJd .                8928   409    6388   29.3   3266   3885   2474   8036   8036   8036   8036   8036   8036   8006   1035   8036   8036   8036   8036   8036   8036   8036   8036   8036   8036    8036   8036   8036   8039   1036
OeheoC,edlExp.                  3790   438    95l    687   8454    1114    2631  8733    673    606    606    606    606t   60                 547    547    547    547    347    482    492    492    492    492    492    443    443    443                      44344
Ovfoeou                         282      99    820       38      33    289    628    353    171    154    834    854    834    154              85  38    138 8l 38            838    824    124    824    824    824    824    182            882    882    882    882
TOTrAL  MMVIT404TCOMT   2382   4648   7459   3368   4735   4288   3363   3844   812   8797   8797   8797   8797   8797   8728   8728   8728   8728   8728   8653   8653   8653   8633   8633   8653   8598    8598    8598   8398    8598
I4Er INc. 381ENEWS             -2J82  -4648  -7459  -3568  -4709  -383   -2870  -1122    423   8 470   299    4326   399   7TM    8984   944    9750   9840   9793   9713   9481   9180   8880   8379   737    7239   46654   5838   4771   3690
Econ. R. ofRetuma:            11.4   %   (bane)                                                                                                                                       c-
10.2 % (yield down 10%)
9.3 % (pricecdown 10%)
10.3 % (all costs up 1O%)



Annex 1: Table l(R)
Indonesia
Nucleus Estates And Smallholder VI
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
PTP XXVIII Seram Nucleus Estates Component
AtRp Million (1990 Constant)
0       5       2       3       4       5       6       7      8       9       t0      53     12      is      14      is      36      37      I3      19      20      21      22      23      24      IS      26     27      28      29      30
Doa"Im                1955    1162   1963   564   IN65   Om5          937   I9M      19169   59900   31995    I99    3993   5994   31595   5996   5997    996l   1999   200    200    2002   2003   2004   2005   2004   20017   2000   200    2010   2055
Cus.w6                       ~~~~ ~~~~~~~620    470    200    500    500    710
130    250    263    220    290        I"      147
C~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~223
cop iyuY5mA..347    627   5107   1246   5569   IW69   2255   2492   3135   iSIS   3115   3115   3555   3115   311S   3155   3113   3115   3115   3115   3155   3115   3115   3115   3555   3155
Rabbw YWA.A.P5M                                                                  A00    900   5300)  1200   1300   1400   1450   1450   1450   5450   1400   1350   5300   5250   1200   1550   1500   1050    95   0950    750    650    550    450
Co= idd16                                                                                                240     1M 000ID    1050   1120   5200   1550   1100   5500   5050   5050   5000   5000   3000   5000   5000   3000   5W    5000   5000
TOW Cowv 1564 (Too)
- 953 p5wms                                                     215    339    666    773   1159   1559    5373   14O   5935   1933   1931   5935   1935   1931   1931   1931   3931   19315                    " 193 I59 15931   1931   5935   1931   1931   1931
-51"405e4.                                                              563    295    520    56    673    673   1041   1171   5464   1464   5464   1464   5464   1464   5464   5464   1464   1464   5464   14464   64   1464   5464   544   I464
-" 39554t                                                                        69    525    225    249    374    374    443    453    623    623    63    623    623    023    623    623    623    623    623    623    623    623    623    623
-  9$66 5nf                                                                              74    354    554    623    935    935   1500   1246   13555   5553    553            555 1    556IM      1S11  1558   1558   5556    35M   I3535   15556    1555    3553    556
I"   OUIO                                                                                       276    500    m         97   1495   1495   5772   1994   2492   2492   2492   2492   2492   2492   2492   2492   2492   2492   2492   2492   2492   2492
-m 5968 95                                                                                             246    445    736    US   532  1532  1 3573   5769   2252   2232   2212   2212   2212   2252   2212   2252   2252   2212   2252   2252   2232 
-Told (CopaITos)                                                235    552   5050   5592   2357   363111   4579   5677   666    762    636    9542   9637  3026   I026   IO26   30260  5023   5026   30260  3026   5029   50260  3026    IOM9    002
Tatd R3bb  156 (too)
-11113 Omi5n                                                                     52    IN?    I4        3 56    off    362      36      33 19    369    In9    562     576    169    163    556    150    543    537    324    III              95      95      72      5
- 934 35i                                                                               100    225    275    300        325    350    363    363    361    363    350    336    325    313    300    2M                275    263    235    253    Sn          563    133
-  S93pSuuf                                                                                     306    259    29        313    345    371    314    384    3614    394    373    356    345    331    313    US    292    276    232    225    I"                      5172
OM 3966pt                                                                                                U8    I"      242    264    236    MI    319           390    319    319              298  7    286    275    264    253    242    235        209    Is7    565
-597p                                                                                                           33bm16    265    319    346    317     4       421    423    421    421    406    39           37    363    348    334    319    305    276    247
-m 1966p5                                                                                                                79    III!   256    256    257    277    237    267    237    287    277    267    257    248    235    223    213    203                     368
-ti 3949oh                                                                                                                       39    532    162      376    193    206    253    233    233    253    206    I391    193             584    576      569    362    554
-Towa (Subb6uIIos)                                                               52    237    474   7IN        3075   5407   1703   5906   202    2094   2137   2342   2337   2074   2036    3949   #874   1799   7371   5623   1556   1399   5265   1522
TOW COON VWA (Too)                                                                                        54    134    579    222    234    250    265    236    245    245    234    234    223    223    223    223    223    223    223    223    223
r-. hi-WACp-%.C11p)                                              260    449    562    479    446 40         4    950    553    535    55        54      337    526    555    505    505    505    505    505    505    505    50                S0W     505    505       05
Ec. P,ksI3nNo1X     p5                                          5436   5563   3696   1446   1009  I5373   1405  515   5657   1757   1734   1731   1727   3724   5121   1721   3723   1721   3721   1721   5725   1721   51721   1721   1721   1721
Sc. Fpdr5~oww5   (NIP                                                                                 5I00   5500   3500   350    5I0   3500   ISM0   3500   1500   5500   3500   5500   3500   5500   3500    550     3500   5500   1350    5500   13500
REVEI4VE                                                         60    248    679    3076   3657   2659   395   529    6740   3035    457   5932   9249   9359  9O0    9532   91012   337    6750   6621    Ml5  6339   3534   7931   770    7457
Cgas Do.1"alu5.                       2567   2493   2595   4763   3405   3753    5005.  1005   5005   3005   5005   5005   5005   5005    3005   5005   3005   3005   5005   3005   I005   5005   5005   3005   5005   1005   3005   5005   5005
Oo66.m                                 103755160       3903423    63431926             19451015    934    934    934    934    934    841    845    843                843    843    737    757    737    757    757    453            455    66I    631    653    Gat
TO  osdh. Coi                           360    3655   3435   6319   419   5664   55ff   2043   3939   5939   1939   1939   5939" 5I45   1845   1845  5145   1845   1761   1761   1761   1761   3765                             636   1666   3666   1686   1636   5666
1,1 I=. Ueaib                         -3604  -3651  -3431  -6523  -34l  -419551  -522   -356    720   2056   3357   AM                 4097   6632   7037   7404   7534   7353   7350   7251   7116   O96    6860   6795   6633   6449   6245   0057   5773
Eccm, R. of Return:           11.1   %  (ban)                                                                                                                                         Cb
9.9 % (Vidd downs 101)
9.0   1  (pr-ice down, 10%)
10.0   %  (all costs uip 10%)



Amnex 1: Table 1(h)
Indonesia
Nucleus Estates And Smaliholder VI
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
At Rp Million (1990 Constant)
0       3            3           4        3                7       S       9       me      mI      12       33      14      Is       14      17       IsI t3          20      21       22      23      24       2       26      27       23      29       30
~~mip3~          3963   .193      596     3604   la;   3966    .1671    66          in,9  5990        99     39M      3993    1994   3693       99     197    996    39M        2000   2005    200       200     2004   2003   200        2007    2000    200      2010   2011
35VE6U1                     0        0       0        0     114      M9    ISO?   4339   420         7397  133    IS3M   200M    2M23   2963  315307  32932  33311  3333    33343  32943   32403  31633  31133  3036   2943    236                        27271  2929  74"36  2332
C~  Din~.36uku.     0    2313   O93    12471   "93    34392    669   12160   3921   397              3976   39M       397     PM7      PM7    397      397      397     3976   397       397     397     3976    3976 397M    3976         *  39 76 397         3976 39    76 3
OdICmf D       rb .        0     406      376    116       733    3395    3203    67       320     3223    3302    5302    5500    3502    3300     92         992       M9 99          99       M9 69            M9     M9 6 93          63       so3    30       603    U5        663
O"Owob             ~2    M360       II 13   416   5317    3740   13333   323        3737    3993    3322    132      2 539    33      332      1370   1337     1370    3370   3370   3233    1233   12)3   1233    5233    3322    3309    1109   5500    3500    3500
TOM hr66C.o                42   3297  3072    33230   3330    17313  59276   36539  3663    MI9  440                 460      660    400    660     633        433     6337   633       433    4305    4303    9505    4505    6301    3930    SW3          39"    3339    SW3     332
no m i. -                 -0   -3297 -30726 -5323  -33492 -37333 -37709 -3202   -466                  903   47332 f 9 263            INS3  3 13 2323    1370  26634  27473  27496  27000  2630   2604   2373   2303   2427   2333   2236   23333  20060  133M    5669
Eams. R. ofReturn:   12.0 %(bmw)                                                                                                                                                                 -
10.7 % (iLdM down 10%)
9.6 % (pic, down lOS)
10.8 5 (anlcw  up 10%)



MAP SECTION



IBRD  16213R
INDONE SIA
NUC-EUS ESTATES AND
SMALLHOLDERS VI PROJECT
BENGKULU(SELUMA SITE) PTP XXIII
AOZ   of  ,W  X tit.
JAWA         FLO.# $                                                       [       .  NUCLEUS ESTATE SITES NES VI
50t105                                                     PREVIOUS NUCLEUS ESTATE SITES (RUBBER) NES V
. ...  CONSTRUCTED ACCESS RCAD
06                                          TArO C...,    1070w                                    ROADS
f, Pad-9 9                                                                                            RIVERS
-    KABUPATEfN (DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES
-  J - - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Y'30'                                        KWft-g                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~303O-
3'30                                     T anjO.0.3reldana                       r  th7                                                               (
/         ~~~~~KILOMETERS L    2        4,      6        ,8      Ip
2   X                                                           ~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~               ~      ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~MILESO24E
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~<T 
LU ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
-3460erPr                                            /ir                                     J                          -                            3045.
'  4- SMAL LobJkBlmbll <         K L
<          ;t         Ft S ,. ~~~~~~~~~~_   _ u..',  . e
Airpuiuk      ann          '                         -\S  W-..-*  0.K
4~~0fY                                                                                                                          claNew Po
3'49~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3 \                                                                                         prt15-eo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.l                                                                        n    -  .r0r  -     
1 02, s10Vr5r 
JUNE 1990



Marak                JKR4                                                                                   10
~~~ I                                                                                  0605W~~~~~~Iio%
Ha  AWAKRT
;''l Pal  (PU'( X)XJ   ) ''c                                                                0
Crxl(     A                                  Ccn   (P Xn/l)
Oi/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~T &,kt,ni                           106040. !<         t
7010.~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                                                          -00
Cibarehong /FrP Xl}       1 K             >" kIndangbsrampnk
-anyl Suran 710
C , SKU/
Suray     S                              *%0                                                   <        jt    <    ,_,an ur Si du
108W0                                                         10850'
7010' ~ ~ ~ ~   ~        ~        ~       ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       ~                       .           ..



IBRD 15636R
1203Y ogW
_0>               '___  Soabuwei                          Pitaela-_  
J                              I                                          Paoni 6'
_   /                           ~        ~       ~~~~~~/        /
Kawa             (                                                                                                                        V
\         {~/                                    I              C           I 
I   Jl                              {     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~~~~~/  J  I
   (                    _2~~~~~~~~~~,,Popela  I        fc             
,   )           ~~~Lumnol~T                 
<   ( k                \               <t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hiolo   . 
//  ~ /                      \             /  ,           -         /                                                              3O\
t~~~ I                               W      _      -   \ 
I      S     .<  E        A'       A         MRU8BE R
Lumolifl-' ,S       ,                                                                         ,  COC5 U 7
Waesamn <                                           _ (JPalhi                                  Msh 
-~~~ I-~                               )    \      AhloIo                                               __,_             \
' \ /~ -'-Js>Aaal_                                                                           __~-
I t
>Hualoi
I~ ~~~~~~ /-                                        /)3
Ruahk "%'-- ,
Moreala,S                                                           SAngF  1 _ARUA^p\     
I HAUKI
A ,M, 0  IV \N  Tulahu    ('?Aboru\ <  }                                        uIat
W                  1 _-                                                 ,Uhaso                     i
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---   /                                           r,
t~ M80N 2talong                                                                             __
,) r ~~~~~~~~~INDONESIA
/9 ~~~~NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VI PROJECT
~MALUKU (SERAM SITE) PTP XXVIII
ftm#w T wd a  "aCk&* W 0* &dWnW UTO of  *'bhlhcr rAV 80                               _ t1ft      ESTATE SITESIPNP XXVIII)
f&qJ on CowWcofo The oM e, V  f nJnlbonW FJm COnMW    dq                                  EXISTING ROADS
0.f V  Waofny  Wdtly Wr  &bwd ar y ar  of nScho baW&                                     TRACKS
,Th.adsnd  Ph.jVp..a                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
M    oa                       I                                        S I    ,U    i      PROVINCE CAPITALIMALUKU
e. _ . _ _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
%,,,tzv.9mponKm-.*                                              KILOMETERS!              0    15     20    26     3
e n1ulA  .m Sl/      bVI                                      MILE I
10wo  Fgons                  ! ~~~~~~~~~~-4OQ                                                                       4W
IAIMBON    \y_Tulehu  ~   o2rd0                                                                 12u
JUNE 1990



