Document of
The World BankILE'   UVY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3245-IND
REPORT AND RECOMbIENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VI PROJECT
March 22, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =  Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00            =  Rp 625
Rp 100             =  US$0.160
Rp 1 million (M) = US$1,600
ABBREVIATIONS
BRI      -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CE       -  Copra Equivalent
CDC      -  Commonwealth Development Corporation (of the United Kingdom)
DGE      -  Directorate General of Estates
GOI      -  Government of Indonesia
NES      -  Nucleus Estates and Smallbolders
PMU      -  Project Management Unit
PNP      -  Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan, a state-owned estate enterprise
PTP      -  Perseroan Terbatas Perkebuanan, a state-owned estate enterprise
with limited liability
REPELITA -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74,
Repelita II, 1974-79, Repelita III, 1979-84)
Team     -  Special Team for Externally Assisted Projects (within the
Khusus      Directorate General of Estates)
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VI PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:   Three state-owned estate enterprises (PTP XII, PTP XXIII
and PNP XXVIII)
Amount:           $68.1 million equivalent, including capitalized front
end fee.
Terms:            20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
11.6% per annum.
Relending:        Beginning from the date of the signing of Smallholder
Credit Agreements between Bank Rakyat Indonesia and the
smallholders (which would be 3 years after planting begins),
loans to smallholders would be at an interest rate of
10.5% per annum for 17 years, including a grace period of
2 years for coconut and 3 years for rubber. Loans to the
estates for estate development would be at an interest
rate of 13.5% per annum for 20 years including a grace
period of 8 or 12 years. The Government of Indonesia
(GOI) would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project           The proposed project would assist GOI's nucleus estates
Description:   and smallholders development program by establishing
28,200 ha of tree crops (rubber and coconuts), food crops
and house gardens in West Java, Bengkulu and Maluku
provinces with the public sector estates PTP XII, XXIII
and PNP XXVIII as implementing agents. The project would
immediately benefit some 8,500 smallholder families and
provide full-time employment for another 3,900 families
working for the estates. It also includes technical
assistance to the Directorate General of Estates and the
participating estates, and funds for developing and
intiating implementation of future nucleus estates and
smallholder investments. There are no unusual technical
risks in this project. In order to address potential
weaknesses in management of the individual estates the
project includes measures to speed up implementation and
improve project management, therefore minimizing any
risk in this area.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated                                           Local    Foreign    Total
Costs /1:                                                 ($ million) ------
Smallholder development             24.6        27.6     52.2
Estate development                  26.7        36.3     63.0
Technical services and
start-up activities for
future projects                    3.9        13.8     17.7
Base cost                           55.2        77.7    132.9
Physical contingencies               6.2         7.8     14.0
Price contingencies                 24.7        18.4     43.1
Total Project Cost                  86.1       103.9    190.0
Front end fee on Bank Loan            -           1.1     1.1
Total financing required            86.1       105.0    191.1
Financing                                           Local    Foreign    Total
Plan:                                                        million) ------
Bank                                  -        68.1       68.1
CDC                                   -        28.0       28.0
GOI/Suppliers' Credit                86.1       8.9        95.0
Total                           86.1    105.0       191.1
Estimated
Disbursements:   Bank FY              1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Annual               1.8    7.3   14.0   18.0   22.0    5.0
Cumulative           1.8    9.1   23.1   41.1   63.1   68.1
Rate of Return:    14%
Staff Appraisal    No. 3737-IND, dated March 22, 1982.
Report:
/1 The project is tax exempt.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VI PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $68.1 million,
including capitalized front end fee, to help finance the Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders VI Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including
five years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum. The proceeds of the
loan disbursed on smallholder development would be recovered through Small-
holder Credit Agreements between Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and individual
smallholders. Signed three years after planting begins, the terms of these
Agreements would include an interest rate of 10.5% per annum and amortization
of 17 years, including a grace period of 2 years for coconuts and 3 years for
rubber, with capitalization of interest accruing during those grace periods.
The proceeds of the loan relent to the estates for estate development would
be at an interest rate of 13.5% per annum for 20 years including a grace
period of 8 or 12 years. In addition to the Bank loan, a loan of $28 million
equivalent would be provided by the Commonwealth Development Corporation of
the United Kingdom (CDC) to help finance part of the cost of the project.
The project would also involve about $8.9 million equivalent in suppliers'
credit.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and Short-Run
Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in 1980 and a further country economic memorandum,
"Indonesia: Development Prospects and Policy Options," (No. 3307-IND dated
April 6, 1981) was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 13, 1981.
Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 13,000
islands covering a land area of about two million sq km. With over 147 mil-
lion people /2 it is the world's fifth most populous nation. The populations
growth rate between 1971 and 1980 was 2.3% per annum. The population density
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the National
Fertilizer Distribution Project (No. P-3234-IND) circulated under
cover of R82-68, dated March 11, 1982, and scheduled to be considered by
the Executive Directors on March 30, 1982.
/2 1980 population census.



- 2 -
exceeds 650 persons per sq km on Java, where 62% of the population live, but
averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of the country; 80% of
the population live in rural areas. GNP per capita is estimated to be
$430./1
4.        The Indonesian economy has a highly diversified resource base,
with plentiful primary energy resources, significant mineral deposits, large
timber potential and a developed system of agricultural commodity production
and export. However, the dominant feature of the 1970s has been the rise to
prominence of the oil sector.  Net oil exports rose from $0.6 billion in
1973/74 to $10.8 billion in 1980/81, at which time the oil sector accounted
for almost 70% of both exports and Central Government domestic revenues. As
a consequence the country's resource position has been highly sensitive to
terms of trade developments. Following the second oil price hike a resource
deficit turned into a substantial surplus (of $3.6 billion in 1980/81) and
the current account moved into surplus for the first time in two decades.
In 1981/82 declining real oil prices, combined with weak prices for other
commodities and the recession in OECD countries, contributed to a reversal
of this position, with a resource deficit estimated at $0.8 billion. The
effects of these dramatic changes are still working their way through the
system. However, the infusion of foreign exchange into the economy has
certainly contributed to a highly favorable growth performance, despite weak
production linkages between the oil enclave and the rest of the economy. A
sustained growth rate of almost 8% per annum for over a decade is higher
than that of any other low-income country. While oil has played an import-
ant part, it should be stressed that the initial impetus to this growth
occurred in the period of recovery from the severe dislocation of the 1960s.
The Government of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore and then
maintain macroeconomic stability, liberalize the economy and provide incen-
tives for investment. There was a major rehabilitation of the neglected
infrastructure, and the investment rate doubled to 18% of GDP. Throughout
the period growth has been well diversified, with sectoral growth rates
varying from 4% per annum in agriculture to 12% per annum in manufacturing
and construction. However, despite this favorable growth performance, the
economy is still underdeveloped, with a share of manufacturing in GDP of
less than 10%, and a persistent deficit on the nonoil current account.
Incomes and Poverty
5.        Average incomes per capita have been growing at 5% per annum, but
Indonesia remains an extremely poor country.  It is estimated that almost
50% of the population, some 65 million persons, were living in conditions of
absolute poverty in 1978. Household expenditure surveys indicate some
reduction in poverty incidence in the 1970s, especially in urban areas, but
a widening in rural/urban disparities. The core of the poverty problem
/1 Estimate for 1980.



- 3 -
continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large propor-
tion of the population. Here the number in poverty appears to have
increased to almost 50 million by the end of the decade.
6.        The availability of productive employment is a key determinant of
incomes.  Total employment has been increasing at 3% p.a. during the 1970s.
In 1977/78 open unemployment was less than 2% in rural areas and about 6% in
urban areas. There was, however, a particularly heavy incidence among young
educated males - 30% for urban males aged 20-24 with secondary school educa-
tion. In the period 1971-78, manufacturing provided only 6% of the increase
in employment, and mining almost none, while the more labor-intensive agri-
culture and tertiary sectors provided 42% and 52% respectively. Agriculture
still accounted for 61% of total employment at the end of the period.
Because the oil sector has played a leading role in economic growth, thereby
encouraging a fast growing tertiary sector, the relative lack of industrial
employment has not had serious consequences in the past. However, in the
future, the growth of the industrial sector will be of critical importance
for the direct and indirect provision of employment. It is also clear that
increasing remunerative employment in agriculture, for example in cash crop
production, will have a major role to play in poverty alleviation.
7.        Significant progress has been made in the social sectors.  Univer-
sal primary enrollment will be achieved in the near future, and an adult
literacy rate of 62% compares well with an average of 50% for other low-
income countries. However, secondary and higher education is comparatively
less welldeveloped, and this has been a major factor behind the current
shortage of skilled manpower. With respect to health and demographic
indicators, there have been significant declines in both crude birth and
death rates. An effective family planning program helped reduce fertility
rates on Java and Bali, while the 46% reduction in the crude death rate
between 1960 and 1979 was only exceeded by seven developing countries.
However, the level of provision of services remains inadequate, and only 12%
of the population has access to safe water, compared with 29% for all
low-income countries.
Policy for Structural Adjustment
8.        Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the non-oil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. This will require two broad types of policy measure. First,
there is a need for substantial investments in economic and social infra-
structure. Increasing the capacity of the transport network and electric
power system will be critical to sustain the rapidly expanding demands of
the productive sectors of the economy. Second, this must be complemented by
improvements in the policy environment to provide an appropriate incentive
structure for private sector investment. This is illustrated for the major
economic sectors.



-4-
9.        In the industrial sector, GOI is planning a program of large-scale
industrial investments; in refineries, LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer,
cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and mining, with an estimated invest-
ment cost of $15-20 billion. This will broaden the industrial base, but
will have very limited employment implications. Of greater importance for
both employment and exports is the encouragement of small- and medium-scale
private manufacturing through an improvement in the economic environment.
The 1978 devaluation from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar significantly
improved the profitability of labor-intensive import substitution and export
industries. GOI is now backing this with a general review of the trade
regime, with a view to removing the distortions due to the wide variation in
rates of effective protection, and a strong push for the expansion of
non-oil exports, including financing arrangements, improved ports proce-
dures, export processing zones and a system of export certificates (duty
rebates). However, the private sector also suffers from significant domes-
tic constraints to its expansion, notably a heavy regulatory burden,
especially in the area of investment licensing, and a distorted and poorly
developed financial system. Further policy reforms to create an environment
conducive to private investment are needed to alleviate these constraints.
10.       Despite the abundance of energy resources, Indonesia also faces a
potentially serious structural energy problem. Oil and gas now account for
98% of domestic consumption of commercial energy and demand has been growing
rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid a serious reduction in foreign exchange
from the oil sector in the 1990s, it is essential to diversify energy usage,
in particular through the development of the coal, hydropower and geothermal
potential. This will require both a major investment program in this decade
and measures to encourage interfuel substitution and more efficient energy
use. In January 1982 domestic oil prices were increased by over 60% in
order to reduce the level of budgetary subsidies. This was a decisive step
toward the reduction of a major distortion in the economy; it followed a
similar increase of about 40% in May 1980 and demonstrated the GOI's commit-
ment to tackle this politically difficult issue. However, domestic prices
are still only about 55% of the opportunity cost on average, and price
relativities between products diverge widely from those prevailing on the
international market.
11.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 non-oil exports), food production
and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to a record level
of about 22 million tons in 1981, compared with 13 million a decade earlier,
largely as a result of irrigation and the dissemination of new agricultural
technology particularly with respect to the timely delivery of adequate
seeds and fertilizers. Future investment in physical infrastructure,
especially irrigation and roads, combined with a favorable market environ-
ment will be the main determinants of further expansion in food production.
Tree crops have suffered from relative neglect, and the age structure of the
trees is now very old, but GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilita-
tion and replanting, necessitating substantial investment in manpower and
improved organization of distribution and marketing.



-5 -
12.       To sustain rapid economic growth and reduce poverty, substantial
investment in human resources development will be critical. The lack of
skilled manpower affects almost every sector. Shortages are largely due to
the poorly developed secondary and higher education system, and in recent
years GOI has clearly demonstrated its strong commitment to the expansion of
the system. However, the high rates of unemployment amongst secondary
school leavers suggest there may be problems of mismatch between supply and
demand at some levels. In the short run there is scope for better
utilization of existing manpower through stopgap training schemes, while
available foreign exchange resources could be used to finance fellowships
abroad and, in the interim, to purchase foreign skills. There is also a
strong justification for the use of incremental resources in the health
sector. However, increased outlays on health infrastructure will have to be
complemented by the development of innovative approaches to identifying and
tackling health problems, involving the participation of local communities.
The successful family planning program provides a good model.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
13.       The dramatic increase of oil revenues in the 1970s allowed a large
expansion in GOI's expenditure including subsidies (especially on petroleum
products) and resulted in a relative neglect of the nonoil tax effort; non-
oil taxes contributed less than 9% of total non-mining GDP in 1980/81. The
constancy of oil prices in 1981-82 and the consequent real decline in
revenues, suddenly brought forward the problem of domestic resource mobili-
zation, at a time of rapidly expanding development finance requirements.
The two major policy measures required are a steady rise in domestic oil
prices to reflect opportunity cost, and an improvement in the tax effort.
The 1982/83 budget represents a significant effort in these directions.
First, the budgetary subsidy on petroleum products has been reduced from an
annual level of over $3 billion to less than $1.5 billion. Second, domestic
nonoil tax revenues have been budgeted to increase by over 15% in real
terms, with the major emphasis on improved administration and collection
procedures.
14.       Total disbursed and outstanding external public debt was almost
$15 billion at the end of 1980; while undisbursed debt amounted to an
additional $9 billion. On the basis of present projections of development
financing requirements and external resources deficits, there will be a
continued need for significant inflows of foreign savings in the 1980s. The
Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia remains the principal source of exter-
nal capital, including Official Development Assistance, to the country.
However during the 1970s Indonesia experienced an unusually rapid
transformation in its public debt structure from a situation of heavy
reliance on official concessional loans to increasing use of private, non-
concessional and variable interest loans in the second half of the decade.
The fact that Indonesia remains highly creditworthy at the beginning of the
1980s, and the efficiency with which GOI has managed debt, are clear



- 6 -
indicators of how far the country has progressed. However, the debt servic-
ing capacity depends on commodity production rather than a broad industrial
base, and this makes Indonesia somewhat more vulnerable to price develop-
ments in international markets. The implication is that debt utilization
should remain very prudent, and that there will be a continued justification
for official debt of long maturities and fixed interest in the 1980s.
Present projections suggest that Indonesia's financing requirements can be
met with the debt service ratio remaining below 20% throughout the decade.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
15.       As of September 30, 1981, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 59 Bank loans amounting to $3,814.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $132.5 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1980
was 10.7%, and the share of debt service about 7.0%. By the end of 1981,
these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 11.6% and 7.9%,
respectively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1981, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including
transmigration) for employment, food security and exports, over one-third of
Bank Group supported projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans
and credits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including
small-scale industry), power, telecommunications, population and technical
assistance.
16.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of
these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis is being given
to GOI's new priorities.
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the National
Fertilizer Distribution Project (No. P-3234-IND), circulated under
cover of R82-68, dated March 11, 1982, and scheduled to be
considered by the Executive Directors on March 30, 1982.



- 7 -
17.       Although the country has moved from a position of resource surplus
to deficit, as discussed in Part I, it is essential that the development
momentum be maintained. This will require both effective policy reform,
notably in improving the environment for private investment, and major
investments in industry, infrastructure, treecrop development and human
resources development. The Bank's program of lending and economic work is
being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration
between sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the
subsector and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this
level.
18.       The only significant shift in the composition of lending involves
a rapid expansion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the
severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth
sector work focused on a policy for the promotion of labor-intensive,
export-oriented growth, and it is planned to follow this with a series of
industrial projects. In energy, new sector work and continued lending will
concentrate on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base, rationalize
pricing and improve sectoral planning. Irrigation and treecrops will con-
tinue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in view of the importance
of these sectors, and continued support for transport is anticipated. Lend-
ing in the areas of provision of social services, in population, health and
nutrition, urban development and water supply will increasingly emphasize
institutional support and the develpoment of innovative low-cost solutions.
For example, the proposed health project will focus on improving the working
of the whole health care system at the level of a specific province.
19.       For about the last two years the Bank and GOI have made a major
effort to improve disbursement performance which deteriorated rapidly in
the late 1970s. The disbursement ratio (amount disbursed during the fiscal
year as compared to the total undisbursed at the beginning of the year)
declined from about 26% in FY77 to about 13% in FY80. The Bank-wide
average was 21.31% in FY80; the comparable ratios for Thailand and Nigeria
were 23.57% and 17.31%, respectively, in the same year. While much of this
decline was merely a result of the rapid increase in commitments which took
place during this period (total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia increased by
122% in the FY77-79 period compared to a Bankwide increase of 83%), it also
reflected increasing implementation difficulties. Many of the problems
appear to be related to GOI's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and payment
procedures, including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of
credit. These problems are further compounded by the severe shortages of
both managerial and technical manpower and weaknesses in the construction
industry. A number of steps have been taken by GOI and the Bank to address
these issues. Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to
analyze the problems and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and
financial procedures. In addition, a special effort to help GOI identify
measures to strengthen and develop the domestic construction industry has
been mounted. GOI and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular
joint review procedures to identify general and projectspecific problems and
work out corrective measures. The first of these reviews was held in June
1979 and subsequent reviews were held in September 1980 and October 1981.
In addition, procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979 and



-8-
November 1981. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, GOI has taken
several measures to streamline some of the complex budgetary and financial
procedures affecting project implementation. Finally, to reduce initial
project implementation difficulties, many operations are now being presented
for Board consideration at a later stage in the project cycle. Indications
are that, as a result of these efforts, improvements are taking place. This
was reflected in an increase in disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to
$277.8 million in FY80, and to $373.5 million in FY81. Disbursements for
FY82 are expected to total about $500 million, implying a disbursement ratio
of around 18%. While it is important that the Bank and GOI maintain their
efforts, these trends are encouraging.
20.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being justified
primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below the IDA
cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of payments position,
IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
21.       The proposed project constitutes the eleventh lending operation
presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. The Jakarta Cikampek
Highway, Eleventh Power, Second Seeds, Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development
and Transportation, Rural Road Development, Second Textbook and Second
Teacher Training Projects have already been approved by the Executive
Directors this fiscal year. Board documents for the proposed National
Fertilizer Distribution, Sixteenth Irrigation and Seventeenth Irrigation
(East Java Province) projects have been circulated for consideration by the
Executive Directors. Projects under advanced stage of preparation and
appraisal include the Coal Exploration Engineering and Third Transmigration
projects.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
22.       Objectives.  GOI's major objectives for the agricultural and rural
sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise the incomes of the
rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising
demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of smallholder tree
crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land, water
and other natural resources.
23.       Performance.  Nearly 16 million smallholder families produce sub-
sistence and cash crops on about 16 million ha, while 1,800 estates occupy-
ing 2.2 million ha produce mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil and tobacco.
Despite a 4% average annual growth rate of production, the agricultural
sector's share of GDP has declined from 40% to 31% since 1968, while its
share in total exports dropped from 45% to 37% due mainly to the markedly



- 9 -
increased value of oil exports. Nevertheless, agriculture still provides
75% of nonoil exports, employs 60-66%0 of the total labor force (depending on
the season), and is the major source of income for about two-thirds of rural
households and one-tenth of urban households; it accounted for 42% of incre-
mental employment during 1971-78. Outside Java, employment prospects in
agriculture appear quite promising, given the sustained increases in the
smallholder area, including that developed by publicly sponsored and
spontaneous transmigration. On Java continued irrigation rehabilitation is
expected to generate significant employment.
24.       Food Crops.  Given the limited manpower and financial resources
GOI has concentrated on increasing the production of rice, the preferred
staple food of the great majority of Indonesians, rice production increased
rapidly (4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to irrigation rehab-
ilitation and the provision to irrigated rice growers of fertilizer and
high-yielding variety seed, financed largely through the GOI rice intensi-
fication schemes. The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% p.a. during the
years 1974-77, in the wake of severe declines in fertilizer usage (due to
restrictions on private sector fertilizer trade), successive seasons of
untimely rainfall, and unprecendented attacks by pests and diseases. Since
then however, rice production has increased substantially, reaching an
estimated total in 1981 of 21.7 million tons. Output of secondary fooderops
(maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts and sweet potatoes) grew at an average of
1.6% p.a. over the past decade. Over the decade, the gains in food crop
output did not keep pace with the 3.5-4.0% p.a. increase in demand,
stimulated by rising incomes. By the late 1970s, Indonesia became the
world½s largest rice importer, with a record import of 2.3 million tons in
1977, and about 1.3 million tons in 1978, while wheat imports reached 1.4
million tons in 1978. However, if the increases in rice production recorded
during 1980 and 1981 can be continued, Indonesia could greatly reduce its
dependence on the world rice market and approach food self-sufficiency. In
this connection rice imports in 1981 fell to 0.6 million tons.
25.       Perennial Crops.  Perennial crops occupy about one-third of total
cropped land (coconuts and rubber account for 80% of this), and generate
about 43% of total non-oil export revenue. Smallholders cultivate 80% of
the rubber area and virtually all coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper,
whereas tea and oil palm are grown primarily on estates. Until recently,
efforts to revitalize the smallholder tree crop sector were limited.
However, an approach begun in 1976, which has received increased emphasis by
GOI, is for government-owned estates to plant and maintain tree crops until
bearing on previously undeveloped land using farmers selected to be settlers
as employees, and thereafter to provide the settlers with inputs, extension
services and processing facilities. This is the approach supported by five
previous Bank-assisted Nucleus Estates and Smallholders (NES) Projects
(Loans 1499-, 1604-, 1751-, 1835-IND and 2007-IND) as well as the proposed
project. While the NES approach has been mainly for new settlers, GOI has
also initiated national programs to assist existing smallholders to replant
rubber or coconuts themselves, with fairly intensive support from Project



- 10 -
Management Units (PMUs). Efforts to design a lower-cost system of tree crop
planting with minimal demands on management are also starting. Given the
vast area of over-aged and low-yielding smallholder rubber and coconuts, the
good market prospects and employment potential for these crops, and the
Other Islands' land availability and natural comparative advantage in them,
the rapid expansion of smallholder tree crops, using all suitable
approaches, is of high priority.
26.       Area Development.  Rural development programs designed to meet
basic needs and to generate employment and production have been developed
for certain critically poor areas of Java. Cultivable land in Java is
almost fully utilized, and in some higher watersheds cultivation already
exceeds ecologically safe limits, contributing to increasing erosion,
downstream flooding, and siltation of ports, dams, and irrigation canals.
GOI is preparing watershed development and integrated development projects
to address this problem.
27.       Transmigration.  The primary program for new area development in
the Other Islands, as well as for creating employment and settlement nuclei
for Javanese migrants, is transmigration. Confronted by management problems,
GOI reorganized the program in preparation for Repelita III, by transferring
implementation responsibility from the Directorate General of Transmigration
to the appropriate technical agencies and by creating coordinative bodies at
central, provincial and district levels, with a Junior Minister of
Transmigration in charge of coordination of the national program. These
measures need to be complemented by continued attention to a variety of
technical and policy questions some of which the Second Transmigration
Project (Loan 1707-IND/Credit 919-IND) is attempting to address.
28.       Bank Group Lending Strategy in Agriculture.  Since the first of 17
irrigation projects was approved in 1968, the Bank Group has rapidly expan-
ded its agricultural lending. Within the context of GOI agricultural
objectives and priorities, as outlined in Repelita III, future Bank Group
agricultural lending is expected to focus on: (a) a diversified irrigation,
food production, drainage and swamp reclamation program to intensify
cropping on Java and extend water management in the Other Islands; (b)
support services including second phase projects for agricultural research,
extension and seeds; (c) smallholder tree crop planting programs; and (d)
area development and transmigration. This strategy will continue to be
reviewed through sector work. Analyses have been completed of employment
and income distribution, irrigation, agricultural support services and food
crop production and transmigration, and reviews are underway of the rubber
subsector, secondary food crops, land tenure and supply and demand for
technical and managerial manpower for agriculture.



- 11. -
Rubber and Coconut Subsectors
29.       Rubber Subsector.  Indonesia is the world's second largest produ-
cer of natural rubber after Malaysia, with a 1977/78 production of about
800,000 tons and exports of 770,000 tons. Rubber comprised 6% of
Indonesia's total agricultural GDP, 7% of export earnings and 16% of non-oil
exports in 1977, and provides full-time employment for two million people
and part-time employment for an additional 6-8 million. Smallholder pro-
duction accounts for about two-thirds of total output and is concentrated on
Sumatra (70%) and Kalimantan (19%). Holdings average about 1.5 ha, and
yields 300 kg/ha. The recent declining trend in smallholder production is
explained partly by a temporary reduction in tapping intensity due to low
prices in the past, and partly by the advanced age of plantings, with an
estimated 75% being older than 30 years. In the absence of major planting
programs, the declining trend in smallholder production would continue.
There is a well-established estate rubber sector of 455,000 ha comprising
government estates (200,000 ha), private national estates (182,000 ha), and
private foreign estates (73,000 ha). Total estate production in 1977 was
250,000 tons (65% from Sumatra, 30% from Java and 5% from Kalimantan).
While the total estate rubber area is expected to decline to 315,000 ha by
1990, yield increases are expected to result in production increase to
340,000 tons.
30.       The forecast of a substantial decrease in future smallholder
rubber production has stimulated GOI to expand rubber replanting and new
rubber planting programs which focus on smallholder development; these
efforts are aimed at raising existing holdings' productivity and assisting
poor and landless families to clear and plant new rubber. In 1978, GOI
initiated a large-scale program for smallholder rubber replanting which a
new national Rubber Replanting Unit in the Directorate General of Estates
(DGE) would implement. Annual targets were 10,000 ha in 1978/79; 30,000 ha
in 1979/80, and about 50,000 ha thereafter to complete 300,000 ha by
1984/85. However, because of the organizational and administrative
constraints facing the program, a more realistic goal for the seven-year
period would be 150-180,000 ha.   The Smallholder Rubber Development Project
(Credit 984-IND) involves the replanting of about 38,500 ha. GOI has also
proposed an enlarged NES program in rubber.
31.       Coconut Subsector.  The Indonesian coconut industry, second only
to the Philippines, is dominated by smallholders. Coconuts are produced
mainly as a sole crop in the Other Islands and in conjunction with other
crops in Java.  In 1975, an estimated 2.4 million ha (including 0.6 million
ha of immature trees) were under coconuts, and production was 1.5 million
tons copra equivalent (CE). The overall average yield is 0.8 tons/ha.
Sulawesi, with 21% of the coconut area, accounted for 30% of output, while
Java, with 31% of the area produced 24%. Sumatra was third with 26% of the
area and 22% of production. Average provincial yields ranged from 1.4 tons
CE per ha in Central Sulawesi and Maluku to 0.5 tons CE per ha in Irian Jaya
and West Java. The large local demand for coconut products is mainly for



- 12 -
cooking oil or fresh consumption. Although Indonesian exports accounted for
about 16% of world copra and coconut oil exports in the late 1960s, current
production is inadequate to meet domestic consumption. Since 1977, the
country has had to import coconut oil and/or substitute other oils to meet
the rising demand. The 1978 shortfall of coconut oil is estimated at
360,000 tons CE, and this is forecast to rise to about 700,000 tons CE by
1985. There are several constraints to the growth of the coconut subsector.
Although Indonesia has good genetic coconut stock, it is only recently that
improved planting material has been developed. Poor crop management and the
absence of a credit/grant package for inputs depressed yields. Smallholder
replanting is usually makeshift, and copra processing at farm level is
generally poor. Although marketing functions satisfactorily, even in remote
areas, there is little quality control and the pricing system offers little
incentives for improved quality.
32.       Coconut development has high priority in GOI's plans.  During
Repelita III, GOI plans to assist the planting/replanting of some 310,000 ha
of coconuts, 83,000 ha with hybrid varieties, and the balance with local
tall varieties, and to rehabilitate 75,000 ha. Plans for the next 15 years
are to plant/replant more than a million ha, with high-yielding material,
and rehabilitate a similar area. GOI's present strategy is to concentrate
on increasing smallholder production, and to assist processing and agro-
industrial development. The Smallholder Coconut Development Project (Loan
1898-IND) will plant/replant or develop some 41,200 ha of coconuts, and
rehabilitate another 38,000 ha.
33.       Bank Group Lending in the Perennial Crops Subsectors.  In the
perennial crops subsectors including rubber, oil palm and coconut, the Bank
Group has assisted GOI with 12 projects. These include three Agricultural
Estates Projects (Credits 155-, 194- and 319-IND); five NES Projects (Loans
1499-, 1604-, 1751-, 1835- and 2007-IND); three Smallholder Projects (Credits
358- and 984-IND and Loan 1898-IND) and one Transmigration and Rural Develop-
ment Project (Loan 1318-IND). The earlier Agricultural Estate projects
assist only public sector estates, while the later Transmigration and NES
projects are primarily for smallholders. In total, all these projects would
plant, replant, grow from immaturity to maturity, or rehabilitate some
298,000 ha of rubber, 159,500 ha of oil palm, and 93,400 ha of coconuts.
Out of this, the smallholders would eventually operate some 51% of the
rubber, 19% of the oil palm, and 95% of the coconut areas. While most of
these projects had slow start-ups and other initial problems, their imple-
mentation is now generally satisfactory. The most important general
development has been the broadly based improvements in estate performance -
most project estates are now profitable. The project performance audits for
the completed Credits 155- and 194-IND rated both projects successful with
economic rates of return equal to or above those estimated during appraisal.
34.       The first three NES projects are sufficiently advanced to assess
their effectiveness. Initially, delays in budget preparation and receipt of
funds by the nucleus estates, slowed implementation. To resolve this, GOI



- 13 -
has simplified financial procedures with automatic quarterly releases of
funds to the estates. Smallholder and estate plantings are now on schedule,
with the planting or rehabilitation of about 46,900 ha of rubber, 10,000 ha
of oil palm and 3,300 ha of coconuts. Field development is good, with total
plantings for NES I, II and III, already 52% completed. The construction of
smallholder infrastructure, however, has been less satisfactory and the
movement of smallholders to the project areas at times has been behind
schedule. NES III and IV initiated several changes in project design and
organization. The nucleus estates now have greater autonomy in designing
and implementing the smallholder components. This has helped with timeli-
ness of smallholder infrastructure construction. The DGE has established a
special team (Team Khusus) to assist the nucleus estates, particularly with
coordinating agencies engaged in project works. NES IV and V contain funds
to commence preparatory works for the succeeding projects. These cover key
start-up activities such as nursery establishment, access roads, and laborer
housing. All these activities have considerably helped project implement-
ation. Furthermore, NES V provided significant technical assistance
including a training component to strengthen Team Khusus in their project
formulation, design and supervision activities. While further institutional
strengthening in the perennial crops subsectors is needed, the pipeline of
nucleus estates and smallholders projects has emerged as an effective model
for rehabilitation and development of smallholders.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The project was identified by GOI with Bank assistance, and
reflects national needs and priorities outlined in Repelita III. GOI and
the Bank prepared the project, using feasibility studies undertaken by FTP
XII, PTP XXIII, PNP XXVIII /1 and the consultant firm P.T. Agriconsult
International. This project was appraised in August 1981; the Staff
Appraisal Report No. 3737-IND is being distributed separately. Supplemen-
tary project data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in
Jakarta from February 15 to 22, 1982, and the Indonesia delegation was led by
General Pang Soeparto, the Director General of DGE.
Objectives and General Description
36.       The project s main objective would be (a) to resettle some 8,450
families in West Java and Bengkulu and to improve their livelihoods through
/1 PNP (Persahaan Negara Perkebunan) and PTP (Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan)
are state-owned estate enterprises which oversee estate development and
operations. In total there are presently 26 in operation in Indonesia.
The only significant difference between the two organizations is in their
legal structure; PTP has provisions for limited liability.



- 14 -
tree crops, food crops and home garden development; (b) to undertake estate
development in West Java, Bengkulu and Maluku; (c) to increase domestic
production of rubber and coconut for export expansion/import substitution;
and (d) to promote institutional development in the estate sector through
technical assistance. The project would be located in three provinces,
encompassing four sites with a total gross area of about 48,000 ha; West
Java (two sites with about 15,000 ha); Bengkulu (one site of 22,000 ha); and
Maluku (one site of 11,000 ha). The project would have the following major
components:
A. Smallholder development
(a) approximately 5,500 ha of coconuts in West Java (PTP XII area)
and 9,500 ha of rubber in Bengkulu (PTP XXIII area) would be
developed under the project;
(b) provision of an initial subsistence allowance and subsequent
development of food crop areas and house gardens (600 ha in two
sites in West Java and 1,100 ha in Bengkulu) including an initial
package of seeds, perennial seedlings, and other inputs; and
(c) provision of smallholder housing, water supply and village
infrastructure and road construction.
B. Estate Development
(a) planting for PTP XII (West Java) of about 1,170 ha of rubber at
Cikaso, and 970 ha of rubber and 500 ha of coconuts at Agrabinta,
rehabilitating about 600 ha of rubber at Cikaso and 770 ha of
rubber and 480 ha of coconuts at Agrabinta;
(b) establishing for PNP XXVIII (Maluku) 4,000 ha of rubber and
3,000 ha of coconuts;
(c) provision of related infrastructure including estate housing,
buildings and roads; and
(d)  provision of processing facilities.
C. Technical Assistance and Program Support
Provision of:
(a) consultant's services through the DGE to assist Team Khusus and
the estates to implement the project and identify and prepare
future projects;



- 15 -
(b) consultant services through the DGE to help strengthen SBPN/1
including preparation of future sugar projects in the areas
outside Java island; and
(c) funds for start-up activities for future Bank-assisted small-
holder projects.
Project Implementation
37.       The arrangements for project organization and management
(Schedule 7 of the draft Loan Agreement) are similar to those established
and developed under previous NES projects. Under the proposed project DGE
would have overall responsibility for project execution. DGE, located in
the Ministry of Agriculture, regulates all private estates and smallholdings
involving tree and industrial crops. It is also responsible for the
supervision of the public estates (PNPs and PTPs) when they are used as
agents for smallholder development (as in this project). As noted above
(para. 34) Team Khusus was established to assist DGE manage the increasing
number of externally financed projects. Under the project, Team Khusus
would coordinate implementation, providing assistance to participating
PNP/PTPs in the preparation of annual work programs and budgets, financial
administration, and technical, engineering and procurement guidance. In
addition, it would carry out monitoring and evaluation. To assist Team
Khusus in undertaking these tasks as well as preparation of future projects,
seven consultants including a land classifier/geomorphologist, rubber and
oil palm agronomists, a rural settlement planner, two financial experts and
a palm oil processing engineer were provided under the NES V project. Under
the proposed project DGE would also recruit a civil engineer with road
construction experience, a rubber processing engineer and other appropriate
short-term consultants to strengthen Team Khusus, who would be employed on
terms and conditions and in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the
Bank (Section 3.02 and Schedule 9 of the draft Loan Agreement).
38.       Participating PTP/PNPs would be responsible for all project work.
The first directors of the participating PTP/PNPs would be project managers,
who would appoint site managers for the individual sites. It was agreed
that the project managers, assisted by the Team Khusus, would prepare and
submit annual work programs and budgets by October 31 each year (Section
3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). The program would include investments in
project items to be financed from public works programs (health and
education facilities).
/1 SBPN (Estate Administration and Support Staff) is a special body which
assists the Minister of Agriculture with policy formulation, coordina-
tion of estate crop activities, estate financial administration and
control, and monitoring of the operations of the estates.



- 16 -
39.       The nucleus estates (PTP XII and PTP XXIII) would have full
authority to establish smallholdings, infrastructure, roads and processing
facilities. DGE would conclude with the nucleus estates Smallholder
Development Agreements which specify all works to be carried out for tree
crop development, processing and marketing services as well as their
responsibilities for land clearing for house and food crop areas, the
provision of initial subsistence funds, the support services for food crops
and needed infrastructure and various other responsibilities of partici-
pating smallholders (Section 3.03(b) and Schedule 6 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The signing of such agreements satisfactory to the Bank is a
condition of disbursement for the smallholder components of the project
(Schedule 1, para. 4(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). The estates would
also undertake all project works for their portion of the project. To
assist them in these activities the estates require technical strengthening
in various areas. Agreement was reached that consultants would be hired on
terms and conditions and according to schedules acceptable to the Bank
(Section 3.02 and Schedule 9 of the draft Loan Agreement).
40.       The provincial governments of West Java and Bengkulu would provide
health, education, social and food crops extension services to the small-
holders, including the construction of health and education facilities
through GOI's public works programs. In these provinces Provincial
Coordinating Committees have been established to undertake construction of
GOI's public works programs facilities; select, together with the project
managers, participating smallholders; expedite the issuing of land use
rights and land titles to smallholders; and ensure adequate food crop
extension services.
Project Costs
41.       Total estimated cost over 12 years of project implementation, i.e.
from establishing the first nurseries until the last blocks of trees planted
commence bearing, is $250 million. The proposed project would assist imple-
mentation over the first five years during which period $190 million (Rp
118.8 billion) is the estimated project cost, of which $103.9 million (55%)
is the foreign exchange component. Taxes are not included due to the tax-
exempt status of the implementing agencies. Physical contingencies are
estimated at 15% for housing, infrastructure and roads and 10% for field
development, services, equipment and supplies. Price contingencies for
domestic costs amount to 14% for 1982, 12% for 1983 and 10% annually
thereafter; for foreign exchange costs the relevant annual contingencies are
8.5% for 1982, 7.5% for 1983, 1984, 1985 and 6% thereafter. Consultant
service costs are based on recent contracts for similar services in
Indonesia. Estimated direct and reimbursable costs including basic salary,
social costs, firm's overhead and fee, overseas allowance, travel, housing
and per diems are $12,000/man-month for foreign consultants and
$2,500/man-month for local consultants.



- 17 -
Project Financing
42.       The proposed Bank loan of $68.1 million (including $1.1 million
capitalized front end fee) would finance 35% of the project-s estimated
total cost and 64% of the foreign exchange cost for the first five years of
project implementation. During this period the proposed CDC loan of $28
million would finance 15% of the project's total cost and 27% of foreign
exchange costs. GOI would provide to the project implementating agencies Rp
53.8 billion ($86.1 million) out of annual budget appropriations to meet
the local costs of the project, and would seek suppliers- credit of about Rp
5.6 billion ($8.9 million) to cover the balance of the foreign exchange
component. In addition, GOI would finance all project costs ($60 million)
from year six to twelve.
43.       Financing arrangements for smallholder investments are outlined in
Schedule 8 of the draft Loan Agreement. Works to be carried out by the
nucleus estates for smallholders would be divided into credit items (i.e.,
those repayable by smallholders including on-farm development and settler
housing) and noncredit items (i.e., those not repayable including water
supply, village infrastructure). The costs of development of smallholder
credit items would be translated into standardized credit amounts for
individual settlers in credit agreements at the end of the third year after
planting. BRI, Indonesia's major rural credit institution, would be the
handling bank to recover smallholders' outstanding debts for GOI; GOI would
assume all risks (para. 7 of Schedule 8 of the draft Loan Agreement). A
handling fee, to be agreed between GOI and BRI, would be paid by GOI on the
aggregate amounts outstanding under the Smallholder Credit Agreements.
Beginning from the date of the agreements between BRI and smallholders,
subloans would be for 17 years, with a two-year grace period for coconuts,
and a three-year grace period for rubber; interest would be 10.5% p.a. and
that accruing during the grace period would be capitalized (Section 3.03(a)
of the draft Loan Agreement). The interest rate charged is the standard
rate fixed by Bank Indonesia. Inflation, which in 1982 is projected at 12%,
is expected to fall to an annual rate of about 10% thereafter; it is
therefore anticipated that the interest rate charged will not be
significantly negative in real terms. Funds for noncredit items would be
financed by GOI through the budget. Schools and health facilities would be
provided by provincial government agencies on a noncredit basis and would be
financed through GOI's public works program.
44.       GOI would provide funds to the participating estates for estate
development either as debt or as equity (interest-free funds in the first
place which would be subsequently converted to equity not later than three
months after the closing date for the Bank and CDC loans). The Bank and
CDC loans funds would be provided as debt for PTP XXIII and PNP XXVIII at
an interest rate of 13.5% p.a. for 20 years including a grace period of
8 and 12 years respectively, and also as equity for PTP XII. In addition,
the GOI's budget funds would be provided as debt for PTP XII and PTP XXIII
at an interest rate of 13.5% for 16 years, including an 8-year grace period,



- 18 -
complying with GOI's standard, and also as equity for PNP XXVIII (Schedule 5
of the draft Loan Agreement). The above financing arrangements and terms
are based on the different present and projected financial strength of the
relevant estates. The comparatively long grace period is considered justified
owing to the long gestation period of the tree crops being financed under this
project, GOI's other investment plans for the estates in question and modest
commodity price projections in the near term. Given inflation projections the
interest rate charged above should be positive in real terms.  The completion
of such financing arrangements between GOI and the individual estates satis-
factory to the Bank is a condition of disbursement for the particular estate
development component involved (Schedule 1, para. 4(b) and (c)(i) of the draft
Loan Agreement). Additionally, issuing of leases to PNP XXVIII for its
project site at Seram in Maluku province is also a condition of disbursement
for its estate development component (Schedule 1, para. 4(c)(ii) of the draft
Loan Agreement). GOI is expected to complete the necessary procedures and
issue these leases by about April 1982.
45.       In order to ensure their sound financial basis during the proposed
development, and for future developments, it was agreed that (a) each estate
would keep a debt to equity ratio of no greater than 60/40 except for the
period of the first 15 years of the project (particularly around 1988 to 1995)
during which PNP XXVIII's debt to equity ratio would increase to 70/30; and
(b) each estate would consult with the Bank before undertaking any other new
development project exceeding Rp 1.5 billion in the case of PTP XII and PNP
XXVIII and Rp 2.0 billion in the case of PTP XXIII (Section 4.08 of the draft
Loan Agreement). As PNP XXVIII is an entirely government-owned entity, the
above increase of debt to equity ratio would be acceptable; however, once
through this stage it also should reduce its debt to equity ratio to 60/40,
and not exceed this in future.
Procurement
46.       Agricultural machinery, road construction equipment, certain
agrochemicals and processing equipment for rehabilitation of the rubber
factory ($21.4 million) would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Qualified domestic
manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the
c.i.f. cost or the import duty, whichever is lower. To the extent possible,
DGE would centrally procure road construction equipment and agricultural
machinery for the estates, minimizing the number of contracts. Exceptions
to ICB would include prudent shopping for start-up machinery for road con-
struction up to the aggregate amount of $1.4 million in order to facilitate
initial implementation. Equipment, spare parts and supplies costing less
than $50,000 would also be procured through prudent shopping based on at
least three quotations. Urea purchase ($1.8 million) would be made directly
from P.T. PUSRI (or its authorized distributors), the country's sole
supplier whose price is considerably below world market levels. In addi-
tion, agrochemicals (except urea) up to the aggregate amount of $1.5 million
annually would be procured following prudent shopping procedures. GOI would
also procure rubber and coconut processing equipment for the new factories
($12.0 million) using suppliers' credit financing ($8.9 million) through
efficient procedures ensuring competitive prices. Civil works contracts for
housing, infrastructure and processing facilities ($54.3 million) which are



- 19 -
small (mostly about $0.5 million and occasionally up to $2.0 million) and
widely scattered in area and time span and thus unlikely to attract
international contractors, would be awarded by local competitive bidding
procedures, or by force account. GOI would: (a) form suitable contract
groupings of at least $320,000 wherever feasible; and (b) submit to the Bank
for review, prior to tendering and award, documents for local contracts of
$320,000 or more. Contracts for consultants services ($8.0 million) would
be awarded in accordance with Bank Guidelines on the uses of consultants.
Disbursements
47.       The Bank and CDC would finance the project in parallel, with CDC
disbursing for tree crop establishment and annual maintenance until bearing
(excluding agrochemicals). The Bank would disburse for the following items
at: (a) 35% of civil works expenditures including roads, smallholder and
estate housing, buildings, garages, workshops and divisional offices;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for road construction, agricultural and
processing machinery and equipment, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) for equipment manufactured locally, and 60% of local expenditures for
imported farm equipment purchased locally; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local expenditures for agrochemicals other than urea, and 100% of
expenditures of urea; and (d) 100% of expenditures for all consultant
services, and start-up expenditures for future Bank-assisted NES projects.
The Bank would not disburse for tree crop establishment and maintenance,
vehicles, motorcycles, smallholder and staff relocation expenses, payments
for subsistence and seeds and fertilizer packages, and equipment for the two
coconut oil processing factories and the new rubber factory at Seram.
Documentation supporting claims for expenditures made under certified
Statements of Expenditure for procurement of chainsaws, sprayers, nursery
watering systems and civil works carried out by force account, would be
retained by GOI and made available for inspection and review by Bank and CDC
supervision missions.
Accounts and Audits
48.       The participating PNP/PTPs would keep separate accounts for all
investments costs relating to smallholder and nucleus estate development
under the project (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). Assurances
were obtained from GOI that all NES VI project accounts and related
disbursements made under statements of expenditure will be audited by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank and the audit reports submitted
to DGE and the Bank no later than four months after the end of each fiscal
year (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Agricultural Production and Marketing
49.       The project would establish or rehabilitate 26,500 ha of tree
crops (17,000 ha rubber and 9,500 ha coconuts), and 1,700 ha of food crops
and house gardens. At full production the additional tree crop outputs are
expected to be 26,500 tons of rubber, and 38,600 tons of copra. The
expected additional production of rice and corn, the most important food



- 20 -
crops, would amount to about 1,300 and 1,600 tons, respectively. In the
case of rubber and copra, the smallholders would be required to sell
sufficient production through the nucleus estates to meet their debt
repayment schedule. To ensure the smallholders have a constant cash flow
for their production, an assurance was obtained from GOI that the nucleus
estates would pay them weekly during the first three harvesting periods
(Schedule 6, para. (10) of the draft Loan Agreement). Food crop production
would be mainly for on-farm consumption, but surpluses of peanuts and house
garden products such as coffee or cloves should be easily marketable in
nearby towns.
Financial Analysis
50.       Future farm incomes without the project would range from $305 to
$625, corresponding to $60 and $125, respectively, per capita. With the
project it is expected that the livelihood of the smallholders involved
would be much improved: family incomes would reach at least $2,600 by year
10, $520 per capita. This would constitute a significant improvement in the
relative income position of these families, from about 15% of per-capita GNP
at present to 84% of the estimated per capita GNP in 1992. Additionally,
an estimated 90% of the project smallholders presently have incomes below
the critical consumption level. The project would raise all their incomes
above this level.
51.       The estates, following procedures established under the earlier
NES projects, would recover the smallholder credits by partially retaining
the sales revenues of the crops they would process and market on their
behalf. To assist in this regard, the estates would establish committees,
including smallholder representatives, which would meet monthly to set the
price for the smallholder's produce, taking into account such factors as
expenses of the estate in collecting, transporting, processing and marketing
of settler production, a return on the estates processing facilities capi-
tal, the importance of encouraging smallholders production and good quality
of their produce (Schedule 6, para. (11) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
estates would deduct from the individual smallholder sales revenues an
amount sufficient to repay the annual loan installment. They would transfer
all cost recovery to BRI which would keep a record of all individual
smallholder accounts. Besides repaying all credit development items,
smallholders would pay a land tax, which village heads would collect and
turn over to local and provincial administrations for providing public
services. This tax can be considered a direct project tax which contributes
towards the operational costs of the governmental agencies involved in the
villages. Estimated cost recovery indices vary from 60% to 71% for the
smallholder developments.
Benefits and Risks
52.       Apart from the creation of physical assets, the project would
provide a livelihood for 8,450 smallholder families and employment oppor-
tunities for 3,900 estate worker families and for another 3,600 families



- 21 -
working in other sectors linked to the project. The base cost for settling
a smallholder family would vary from $5,400 (coconut) to $7,400 (rubber).
The overall economic rate of return is expected to be 14%. The expected
individual economic rates of return would vary from 13% to 18% for the three
smallholder developments and from 11% to 13% for the three estate develop-
ments. Except for the Cikaso and Agrabinta nucleus estates, costs could
rise by more than 27%, or benefits fall by more than 21%, or benefits lag by
more than 2 years before the economic rate of return for a component would
fall below 10%. While the economic rates of return of these two nucleus
estates are more sensitive to changes in the parameters tested (the corres-
ponding figures for them for a less than 10% economic rate of return are,
respectively, a 11% increase in costs, 10% decrease in benefits or one year
lag in benefits), PTP XII-s management should be able to minimize the
possibility of such adverse movements in costs or benefits.
53.       There are no unusual technical risks for the proposed project since
it is based on the experience of previous NES projects. The delegation of
more authority to nucleus estates and the appointment of the PNP/PTP first
director as project manager has proved to be an effective measure to improve
project management and expedite implementation. Remaining shortcomings in
specific areas of technical expertise, particularly for PNP XXVIII, would be
met through recruitment of international and domestic consultants. There
are also risks in ensuring repayment for smallholder investments - it is
important that smallholder crops be channelled through the relevant nucleus
estates. Again the strengthening of the estates should help. On balance,
the risks associated with the proposed project are judged acceptable.
Environmental Aspects
54.       Most of the areas earmarked for development under the proposed pro-
ject are presently,covered by secondary forest and coarse grass and conse-
quently are not used to their potential. Soil conservation methods would
prevent soil erosion, and leguminous cover crops, proper fertilizer applica-
tions and crop rotation would enhance soil fertility. The small quantities of
herbicides and pesticides to be used would not lead to significant adverse
consequences for the environment. Processing facilities would follow the
appropriate standards for effluent treatment to remove potential environmental
and health hazards.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. A special condition of the effectiveness is
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of CDC loan agreement
shall have been fulfilled. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III.



- 22 -
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 22, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-23-                                                   ANEX I
-  Page 2 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SKEET
INDONESIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
MOST RECENT      LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b     ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                     71.0         78.0            94.0              85.9                   99.8
MALE                      86.0        83.0            100.0              94.4                  100.6
FEMALE                    58.0        73.0             89.0              64.5                   98.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                       6.0         16.0            22.0              38.0/aa                53.5
MALE                      10.0        21.0             27.0              34.67~i                58.4
FEMALE                     3.0        11.0             18.0              18.0/asa               48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)       20.0         22.0             20.0              3.8                   21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                39.6         29.0             30.0             32.8                   34.2
SECONDARY                              14.0         13.0             17.0             19.9                   31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            39.0         56.6             62.0              52.8                   86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              1.0          2.1              3.5               1.7                  12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              7.2         22.0             38.5              35.3                  174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              0.1          0.8              7.3               3.7                  50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
lNTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                         ..          ..             17.7              14.6                  106.8
CINEHA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA         ..          ..              0.8               3.4                    4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         34752.5      41034.6          50929.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       27.9         31.0             29.5             29.3                   37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                  74.8         66.3             59.1              69.8                   50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      8.4          9.7             11.8             14.1                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    36.7         35.3             35.6              39.7                   40.2
MALE                                     54.2         49.5             50.1              51.5                   49.8
FEMALE                                   20.0         21.6             21.1              23.3                   31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.2         1.3              1.2               1.1                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..        33.7/c           23.5
HIGNEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSENOLDS         ..         52.07i          49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..          6.87c            6.6
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..         17.37w           14.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..            136.0             134.1                 248.6
RURAL                                     ..          ..            112.0             111.6                  193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..            119.0               ..                   249.8
RURAL                                     ..          ..             98.0               ..                  234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                    ..           ..             28.0             41.7                    21.2
RURAL                                     ..          ..             51.0             51.7                   32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
Ic   Income recipients.
May, 1981



- 24 -                                                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTEDI AVFRLE
LAND AREA (TPOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            - MOST RECEIT ESTIMATE)?'
TOTAL           1919.3                                        EMOST RECENT       LOW INCONE         MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     286.4                  1960  /b    1970 ib      ESTIMATE lb   ASIA 6 PACIFIC       ASIA   PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (U"$)                      80.0        140.0           370.0            232.3                1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)         130.1       128.4           237.1             499.4                1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)     94680.0    116143.0         142870.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)     14.6        17.1             19.8             17.3                  40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                               219.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                  388.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                            2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. XM.                           49.3        60.5             74.4            153.6                 373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        355.9       417.9            487.3            360.3                2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             40.7        44.0            40.8              37.4                 '39.8
15-64 YRS.                             56.2        53.5            56.3              59.2                  56.7
65 YSS. AND ABOVE                       3.1         2.5             2.9               3.5                   3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  2.1         2.0              2.3              2.1                   2.3
URBAN                                  3.7         3.6             4.0               3.4                   3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         46.7        40.8            36.2              27.7                  29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         24.8        17.7             13.3             10.2                   7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.0         2.8              2.3              2.5                   1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)           ..       IBI.1           2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)        ..         0.2            27.1              20.4                  44.1
FOOD ANU NUTRITION
INDEX OF 90D PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)              93.0       102.0            103.0            107.1                 123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                       89.0        92.0            105.0             98.6                 112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              41.0        41.0            47.0              56.9                  62.5
OF WhICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            6.0         6.0             6.0              14.2                  19.7
CHILL (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         31.2        20.4             13.7             14.6                   4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        39.0        46.7             53.0             57.7                  64.0
INFANT NORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              159.0       126.0            120.0             89.1                  50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   *-         3.0             12.0             30.1                - 45.9
URBAN                                   ..        10.0            35.0              65.8                  68.0
RURAL                                   ..         1.0              6.0             20.1                  34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION) 
TOTAL                                   ..        12.0             15.0             17.6                  53.4
URBAN                                   ..        50.0             60.0             71.0                  71.0
RURAL                                   ..         4.0              5.0              4.8                  42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             46778.7    26498.5           13644.4           3857.7                4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..      7672.8          8851.9            6411.8                2229.7
POPULAT7ON PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               1364.1      1644.6           1606.0           1132.8                 588.5
URBAN                                251.8          ..           697.3             322.3                 579.6
RURAL                                   ..          ..           3159.0           5600.5                1138.5
ADHISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..          ..             22.4
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  4.4         4.8
URBAN                                  4.9         5.3
RURAL                                  4.3         4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..         1.5
URBAN                                   ..         1.6
RURAL                                   ..         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..
URBAN                                   ..          ..
RURAL                                   ..          ..



-25 -                                                                                    ANNEX I
DEFINITlONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORSO
Sott,  Although it. dab.ta  r  drouc  frca sorcs    .enrlly judged the seat authoritative and reliable, it should also be notd then they may   t is inte-
nationally comparble  h..a... ofte.      ak ctndrized dlninton-  andtcocets  edb   ifrn   oure   toiatr   t   aa    h   aaea   oe
chelese,ucetul tdsarth   urder_c C agotde  iicte.trendo,.ad therattertee tatin maoIttree    eee   onre
The  'eeeo   rny   r   1  thel seine       111 -nntanu   of thctaubject oC-ntryad (2(a.c-oty erour  itiha...enht higher anrnetCom  the    h n             --atr,t rat.P
of the  ubjectoutr  lerr  fr"aetltrlc    i  apre    grop where "riddle Iurree Nnrth Aftot  and f4iddla tEen" irhe,en beceus   f etenear
ent-eirlftnitise .)  In the -et--eCa erou  dca tbh  -n-oge  are popu lale Ieenlt,  artnhenC  eate formah ied ien_edshone n-ly rhe
maoit   f rhe connln  In A grrp bat data fcr that inictor;.  Sior  the tueoeo   nrroeueth    diacedrn                                  he anailahilitY of data
an    dttC.     i.          .,h  Ct.d us not u.if-rn  -rutioo  nea   hr snrlsid iretneargsnf otindictor no another.  Thes.a. yge  ar   cyceffi   oysieg the valt of
LADOt AREA (tho.....d aq.k.)                                                                   -roetrprtete   e      oa,cb-t and rura  - Forulanin(tal
friol- toal erfor  errarosylelo 'lan  araco   Ordrrre                                 rbe ndIrual)divdedby  ha  reat ir   ume  r   optlbd
Eeluntl-rtleate ofterolurlae  ce   eporarl  reperens,tly                               ailbein puh,to and pyincaee1 g -nro  ad eenld hoapial1 end re-
for Cr-yg, ypanre        k.,rit ad klrchen gerdene or  o        fa1t; 197h dac-              h behnitaCrvenr      op bl   r   a             aenaP.rmaoently staffed
by a1-ut ... phy.iciar.  tEtablteh.etta prccid-n  pr,.intralyce-
Gip pot CAPITA (ItS) - GNPy pencylnettae  atpicorort make  yrta                  l-du   .nr. ore nonincluded.  Octal h-spntnle. honer. -, lolude bsalth
tulne  b  sae  oneneonmahniushcli  ak  hn  (7-79 hte;19t1,                            nd nehol Iteneectynmnnh  tefdbIapylio(huh hr
197dI.ed 17da.adi-ul ...tnant. nurs,  tdaiie,  -t.)  huch cfa- tn-pa--ater
'dato- ond proide a lialted range of nodicl facilinnee   for  AnaIa
fANEGS  CONSUMPTIONO PEt CAPITA - de-cl  -c,...eyloc cfIoeo    eeg   ca                           tiCa1 pcrpoers urha  hoapiills inlude cOfeprnte/gt Ihospitas
an. lnn,ptnee   oualgnodhdo,ncerad  grnhrllc-                                                  ad rural bc-pial.1  Iua  or. I  aa  ideptel   n           a   n    aent
ricitny( no ki.neausof  oa  eq aetprcapOte; 1960, 1070, and 1970                               .en.e C    Spectelter,d heart nlsl amInooe   nyudrit
data.                                                                                        Adnisai. Cte   Hrrfoeina te   d- Octal _uberc  adeiiatoa co  di.atheree
ironS  htit-le divided by the ou      frc  bede.
POPULATION ADl VOITA STATISTLIt
TAt.Fylcrn    i-rr(tooca      icf July 1; 1960, 1970, end 1979                             HOUSINGI
datat.      ,.  I    11p...i.                                                                        A heaa  tnof oahl   1ro dcr  yr  ho.atcd A    toal        illn ae IraI
dofierent dfltlttc-  ci orb .c  .r..  nay affrc   -cpa-oillty of data                        etd thIrea,,nele i       Abhoadenc  lcdgernay or ma  not -beIoldedi
eaongcoanrtna;lObe, 170, oc  1970 lac,                                               rho hcceClurttorecrlI ryaa
Porulnton  rolroiona                                                                   ceraocnnhPIci tnaor   re         o-Itc-ad rb-t  at  cre  -Avrae dm
Poruit 1oc in vn by llt d  - loeo  cuaicpoohi    iotno   uud-11t hro  yocnnyr  cn  nci  nno   n  rura  ocod te  otveCtninna
ton Ifurencicya  boot   i..e..t i ntoih country' ePer cpitta inocar                      ic...e no EleCtriit(ernto  dIltul-  oa.uhe.odrrl -
lnv1, atd feeolo life r              -bra icathli-na o7o.c  0. Te  ae                      C-nncotcol ... rll-noge etch electrttt  nr ltt-ng q-orttra as         .. .g
merstttril ty  atale.C            ..n  .hroe .lete . .ncing id~lite in              of notu, -rban, atdnuu   re-         naot     iny
f-erntl Ot  aC_diiStg ccn_n  leo1 ocd pact folly plaorltg p-ricynto..
tEch country te thcc unignol one of        ntc-bohtulocc-a ci  -untulit                EDUCATItN
and  enltyieifcprjtocprcr.Adiated Elor11ls..t tatine
Socoay  oueto-            no  cay populnticnherIatogInhItt                            ray  tho -itote",Itl"  ed Cfra           .-..s totall, "alr endfml
ma tnt ocntat   ShttlAechtv-d onynto            ieolity  -ane  daClino t.                    primary sho-g  poaanoe  oelly tndeChild-e aged 6-l
the re.placene..t  _eo  of coOb t tt reprodunticoroc  when oah geter. -Inc                   pee hut adju-ted toy difievean  lngtbe c  prImary educa.tion; for
ct  -oan erplacce iteeif nucoly.  The- oioaypcyclavic  els  _a                               c__ore w..ith  clvrsl         --uuino- ent.lmtt may eo-d lI  PnItnet
i:"t,end c   h  basn c  o. poocd otiannCnerlntion of thr  .porctiato                         ainceas-  pcypIn et. beice or  boo- nbr  ffital atbool age,
in ih  yno  hS, aid ihe once  f  noo  cf fnvoOlioy tuo  tnnItc.-Secodary aho  -  otl ml ned fEmale.  Computed .s above; aerndary
9'eernan lnary  occlolcc  a macod -Thn Y-a  rhac atat  -Coy po,latc                   rnir   eerl ,atca,o  Y.teacer Pra                 -de ittre it  frp
sP e  ha  heorecedIIo Y of 12 to 17 yeas  f Ege  corePonec _:ttse  ar  geatll
cnly; 1960,b170 al-196,decj_Pull-tdohA ratd                                                                           roer.adsceer-ra    ndat   noldt
ltr;91,S 19,ad 1979 doto.                                                              Adlfieatrae(ecn)-Lieaeaon   fbet   edad.erite
ynnuantc lrenbtat  (re-t)-, tonald- ue 0ua 4 gr-cok ctee of.cuta  nad-                     aopreteeoioalaetppo dinaed1   er  and-  over. 
64n  -oynuiton C-ion01-i  lS-C   nd17-9
Focoltirahgt  (trat     obnAoa  gr--tO  roo  of urban  opt-                              CintMP,bol
tailota icr lOl-i   5 y96-7. and 1917.PetnrCae(eIh Ycaurd Y  d Iuatn b  aesgrcr   cere    ao  
1c96clo;lO,  19705.  and 1979 dora.                                                      nllncaryvahhtclie.h
tIl icy    . r tes  usully fivo-eaavrgeednIc16.97.nd99.ms ocntie  ahae  lcnig
yIniryanG-ioecr,Anul(lcuadll -tAnah une   faretr                                           TI heniverefret too-a             - erLaCtootl d- lt. reo bvlr tf or  odat _dto
cihnh-cto  drle   ce  anfr   fcanoe  fel  plating...g.n.-e-eel pbli  par trouaad.pIPuPecion; eolAd   nlI..e.aed T   eeve
FtmiyPiontg-    tnn    looncoc  of  Au-r -I Int  - thnCon-ugn of . pnpnvCONUdPIccNunra   n   nyuean    oita~   tT   eeweI                                      et
nomet of chtld-brarton~ )  tee (il l-iAyas  obo cth hroth--onro  deiceyCo           P...c..e. Clcculan~ tonh-nh,sndrrlato     Sosth vdaott
1:11  197O,                                                 I'~~~~~~~~~~~~pull to    eoe    rnelyt   eodt teneral .tom. It nroedee
POet unt 7lTotIToi                                                                         cc hed 197j' of  t oppeer   at les   .. cur . itecreer -
creereetluded).kggrrgat  productoc ci rch coonry-Inphlid 00thOt FOOC
catlnolanerge  eodoar-ric  nelabte   96-di5  1970, nd1979  ot.                        oalLaorFrc  (hoecd(   ioosc -l -otiv  peCea  tatofudi ig
Percett troy  f  alrta Srran  c  rtuttac)-b, CopcdIr...  a.ed frce  ev  unm loye  hu...                                dt  humta,etdne   n.
enrpnuvlc   f  rlodaplr   valboc   onr  yr0  iarvrn dtyoattn ofallPge.1t  efnTiVai   aiu   onre   r
"yeda.huihrnyp.ecnpiadwti  pccluion,in... -1acc  poeblibpn; 1960, 1971 andb979 d...
anporne, andrhengre lonort.  net nuylleanoclud   ecno  mod,snda            Feal  aeo-t -Piaa  abrfoc  as prcetag  Tftoa   -aby frte
qua-Coicode-cee  In C foo  pyconio,  ar   onri   itioi                eur-dNtoulppre (rrott  - Labo  foro  On-t faring  foesryhn _atan
vW NDNTRyITdIelhOcN        eogtvvnona   eprtt,hd   rne,  g                                    nunr(ecn       ao   ignretn nioing   fravoao,_ mnuaaieg
ecc-    ar   ncuhrc        cooio,adadclg1  perodt fcnaarec                                   an  eldtrnity, fi   ppeoo    e                     _eprengeo   aa  lab .face;  960
houehld  rvl;  90-h)  lll,ao  1977  ~ _etuC1971 Ar-I97 A~deo.tc   .   .i.P                                                  --U.            h    .
oaCayly cd fuo  perb dey.   Sioryc  cdO dC-icd e  ahccn._e-                             nt c_it..ttd dro iceuce  at taCdta, nee,and  emal di-hur fnrtne
qoormetn  forall  ounrnaeentalinhd h  151  pocndo  or  inlen                  pacentgee  f ntnl,maleend  enaa roolectt o  aldegarbilotivity
Pori  oo     ..rrv  IStIi, 1971 . nod c977 dote,0.itBO  ORthEttelaofo
rive   fre  anta f erid pulaiCt araf Otq-t day;  C961-Sc  190ad  97daa
tIeItdrtue  froaff  tahlre;N 1960.i- 1970~d and          f.,-d,- -l;190                                        0A 1979 dat.- othla
atbrh;16,  91an   99  aeiedehodh  morntrn    Ith                                                                             - f-cidnt  96ino 19tOct.
Iaacdnrtlcttt  le  totnd  udob    eth   i  natnnaric_er                                    Oeietdfhbot  carvlem yee -J.,,oer.canto   -  rbn        rra
naternupply  ilocludee trrntrd nu lyecen fcer  or  dcreatedho  coct _iae         tanimted.C acAthve Onoo-tecoo  Lecri (019 yifotnl-  rneadeue
narernuchat thai  tco pocociad horeolsa, uplcat, ao                              19tcroel(  stua  rltive pooyt  foo   leve  bacn-thrd   fnag   e   ept
recetad e  If chn      h.rreo 7tlIe eccu teca.  ft no    Ci.   Thh.n.roaenh
fountato-randyn   oacdconosdylI   een  rsahor   a                                            lclnAheit  aseet for hihe  coma oft liie  ird  .rha  area.d A
rWnnonolnucooenucol61d 58lnylu t    -o ih  hurol c7    antn  fiO   oneeP m    cPl-  ro1nofppuat                                           i-ura  and ruoO  nho are "eedu
dotnP_       c  pvC       tycprcnt   at  ltedyi petcPinn the                                 00cr".1.
and oeate-oacrr h  noter-Ourco aysona or tbr net c  pot print-ea an  tf..-                     ..   c..       ocehatr.. andykienad  PR-joint d     pety  c
tar inonallcilcotf.                              979flay 5  .tt.,19t1h
Poeclecco carPhetucuc - Pculooic  an idna hr cuher  f prctctogihyhi
ciAnequehlfidhr1eaaodcale-hcc   ntuvicarbtylrcet
Forlatte  ne..     ac PrcLyeulcn    ttadi   uhrofraeov
maOe an    §oml  nacfeoao.yrotrlcona



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
- 26 -
Population        147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$365 (1979)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                  Annual growth rate (t)
(million US$ at                            (at constant 1973 prices)
current prices)                        Actual                                   Pro ected
Indicator                            1980           1975   1976   1977   1978  1979    1980   l981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a         70,024           5.0    6.9    8.8    6.9    5.3    9.7    7.2    7.3    7.3    7.4    7.4
Agriculture                    18,003            0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    4.0    5.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5
Industry                       29,227            5.6   11.1   14.2    5.9    5.5    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
Services                       22,794           10.1    5.9   12.0    8.9    6.9    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5
Consumption                       48,976           6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    9.9   11.6    8.7    7.8    7.2    8.2    6.0
Gross investment                  15,176          14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.8   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5
Exports of GNFS                   21,365          -9.7   12.5   22.4    1.9   -1.0   -4.2   -5.5    8.2   13.6    1.0    2.5
Imports of GNFS                  15,494            7.9    8.1   22.2   15.6   13.9   13.6   20.1    7.2   13.4    3.2    0.5
Gross national savings            17,576         -19.7   12.0   33.3   -2.1   37.1   -2.1    7.2    9.6    9.0    7.4   12.3
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 - 100)                          166    190    214    237    311    400    440    493    542    591    638
Exchange rate                                      415    415    415    442    623    625    625    625    625    625    625
Share of GDP at market prices (X)                          Average annual increase (X)
(at current prices)                                  (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990         1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic product       100    100    100    100    100    100             3.9          8.4         7.5         7.3         7.5
Agriculture                 54      47      32     26      22      17         2.7          4.1         4.1         3.5         3.5
Industry                    14      18     34      42      44     46         5.2          12.0         9.7         9.0         9.0
Services                    32      35      35     33      36      36         4.8          9.7         9.0         8.5         7.5
Consumption                 91      89     79      70      74      74        4.1           8.4         8.9         8.6         7.6
Gross investment             8      14     20      22      26      27        4.8          18.3        11.7        12.5         7.8
Exports of GNFS             13      13     23      31      23      18        3.6           9.2         8.7         3.7         3.2
Imports of GNFS            -13    -16    -22    -22    -23    -19            3.2         22.1         14.0         8.7         4.9
Gross national savings       8       9     17      25      25      22        6.1         23.1         14.4         4.8         7.3
As % of GDP
1960           1970           1975            1980
PUBLIC FINANCE /b
Current revenues                                                          11.7            10.1           10.5                23.4
Current expenditures                                                      14.0             8.4            9.3                13 3
SurpLus (+) or deficit (-)                                                -2.3           +1.6            +7.1              +10.1
Capital expenditure                                                        n.a.            5.0           10.7                13.5
Foreign financing                                                          0.2             3.5            3.7                 3.4
1960-70         1970-75             1975-80         1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (X)                               4.5             7.6                 6.9             7.3              7.3
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (X)                    2.4             5.1                 4.5             4.9              5.0
Annual energy consumption growth rate (X)                2.9            16.0                15.0            11.0             10.0
ICOR                                                     2.2             2.2                 3.1             3.4              3.8
Marginal savings rate                                    0.30            0.48                0.30            0.18             0.26
Import elasticity                                        1.2             2.8                 1.9             1.2              0.7
/a At market prices.
7i  Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
January 20, 1982



-27 -                                           ANNEX I
Population    : 147.4 million (mid-1980)                                                                             Page 5 of -  pages
GNP per Capita:  US$365 (1979)
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                 Estimate                      Projected
Indicator                   1977     1978      1979      1980     IIUT       1982      1983               1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                            10,861   11,353   17,494   22,245   22,373    24,528   30,108   33,243   36,790   60,953
(a)  Oil & LNG (gross)              7,354    7,374   11,323   16,661   17,980    18,836   22,869   24,279   25,975   37,119
(b)  Nonoil                         3,507    3,979    6,171    5,584    4,393         5,692    7,239    8,964   10,815   23,834
2.  Imports (including net NFS)       -10,686  -11,493  -14,035  -18,649  -23,135   -26,095  -31,886  -35,253  -38,187  -65,903
(a)  Oil sector                    -2,909   -3,364   -4,348   -5,884   -7,658    -8,606  -10,585   -9,972  -10,006  -16,051
(b)  Nonoil imports                -7,241   -7,543   -9,028  -11,790  -14,509   -16,389  -19,999  -23,755  -26,399  -46,657
(c)  NFS (net)                       -536      -586      -659     -975      -968    -1,10o   -1,300   -1,526   -1,782   -3,195
3.  Resource balance                       175     -140    3,459    3,596       -762    -1,567   -1,778   -2,010   -,1397   -4,950
4.  Factor services                       -865   -1,015   -1,261   -1,205   -1,203         -732   -1,247   -1,529   -1,968   -4,430
(a)  Interest public debt            -441      -514      -772     -824   -1,012    -1,226   -,1520   -1,810   -2,119   -3,882
(b)  Other (net)                     -424      -501      -489     -381      -191        494       273      281       151     -548
5.  Capital grants                          66       46        52        76        67       100       100       100      100       100
6.  Balance on current account            -624   -1,109    2,198    2,467   -1,898    -2,199   -2,925   -3,439   -3,265   -9,280
7.  Direct foreign investment              285      271       217       140       178       200       350       450      600    1,000
8. Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                   1,956    2,205    1,865    2,612    3,976         4,120    4,777    5,548    6,063    9,695
(b)  Amortization                    -825   -1,548   -1,329       -952   -1,168    -13,08   -1,493   -1,719   -1,983   -3,603
(c)  Net disbursements              1,131       657       536    1,660    2,808       2,812    3,284    3,829    4,080    6,092
9.  Other capital (net)                   -140      891   -1,261   -1,531   -1,418          500       800    1,000       700    2,000
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651        -708   -1,690   -2,736         330    -1,313   -1,509   -1,840   -2,115         188
11.  Net official reserves                2,208    2,916    4,606    7,342    7,012        8,325    9,834   11,674   13,789   17,543
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                       3.4       4.3       5.6      6.9       5.6        5.7      5.5       5.5       5.9      4.2
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system /d                                 -        -    6,906   10,787   10,357    11,670   13,179   15,019   17,634   22,388
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                          3.4       4.3       8.6      10.1      8.3        8.0       7.4      7.0       7.5       5.4
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /b
Gross Disbursements                    1,956    2,205    1,865    2,612
Concessional Loans                        442      484       433       732
Bilateral                              381       448       399       684
IDA                                     49        29        30        42
Other                                    12        6         5         6
Nonconcessional Loans                   1,514    1,721    1,432    1,880
Official export credits                218       271        61        44
IBRD                                    191      168       199       331
Other multilateral                       16       12        46        52
Private - source                     1,089    1,270    1,126    1,453
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d   11,658   13,107   13,233   14,940
Official - source                  7,077    8,390    8,434    9,442
Private  - source                  4,583    4,717    4,799    5,497
Undisbursed debt                     4,475    5,839    7,932    8,889
Debt Service
Total service payments               1,262    2,062    2,101    1,777
Interest                             441       514       771      824
Payments as % exports /e              11.6      18.2      12.0       8.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(M)                                    6.3       7.6       6.6      8.1
Official - source                       5.4      4.6       5.0       5.0
Private  - source                       8.6     10.2       8.6      12.8
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                               20.5      18.7      19.1     18.9
Official - source                     23.9      30.1      25.8      24.8
Private  - source                     10.4       8.6      11.1      10.0
As % of debt outstanding at end of 1980
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                               30.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                              64.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                              4.1
la  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7i  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
Ic  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
71i At end of period.                                                                                  East Asia and Pacific Programs
7i Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                         January 20, 1982



- 28 -                         ANNEX II
Page 1 of 28 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1981)
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Seven Loans and thirty Credits fully disbursed           357.0   453.30         -
300     1972   Population                                         13.20        0.45
387     1973   Third Education                                    13.50        3.03
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                  7.80        3.51
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                      16.50        8.56
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                         5.00        0.95
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                       16.00        3.97
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                    6.50        0.51
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                     30.00        9.16
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project               40.00        9.93
827     1978   Rural Credit                                       30.00       16.67
869     1979   Polytechnic                                        49.00       45.55
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                         10.00        8.96
919     1979   Transmigration II                                  67.00       49.72
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                       12.00       11.29
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Dev. Project                    45.00       42.15
995     1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                               45.00       41.25
996     1980   National Agriculture Extension II                  42.00       41.48
1014     1980   National Ag. Research Project                      30.00       29.95
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                  14.50                 1.47
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                          65.00                14.79
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension         21.50                 5.99
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping        13.00                 5.45
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                           130.00                36.99
1237     1976   Fourth Education                          37.00                10.94
1250     1976   Second. Shipping                          54.00                16.30
1254     1976   Third Fertilizer Extension PURSI IV    70.00                    0.03
1259     1976   Fifth Power                               90.00                 5.08
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension             22.00                 3.91
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                        33.00                10.14
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.00                    8.17
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                  52.50                 8.83
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                        32.00                11.40
1363     1977   Second PDFCI                              15.00                 1.06



ANNEX II
- 29 -                       Page 2 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1365    1977   Sixth Power                              116.00              37.89
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                     13.00               8.52
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education          19.00              12.57
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                         63.00              41.49
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                          35.00              12.26
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                  1.26
1472    1977   Second Population                         24.50              14.83
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                      15.00               8.12
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I        65.00              37.36
1513    1978   Seventh Power                            109.00              52.35
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                         140.00             123.60
1579    1978   Eleventh Irrigation                       31.00              22.82
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                 62.36
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                        77.00              59.78
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                   54.00              39.45
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control         50.00              44.11
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training              42.00              37.74
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                            130.00             107.48
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                            50.00              26.48
1707    1979   Transmigration II                         90.00              90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                             175.00             139.74
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                       36.00              34.29
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders III         99.00              83.96
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                    116.00             111.78
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders IV          42.00              39.37
1840    1980   Nat. Ag. Research Project                 35.00              35.00
1869    1980   Third Population Project                  35.00              35.00
1872    1980   Ninth Power Project                      253.00             240.22
1898    1981   S-holder Coconut Dev. Project             46.00              45.21
1904    1981   University Development Project            45.00              45.00
1950    1981   Tenth Power Project                      250.00             250.00
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation Project                 22.00              22.00
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development Project          43.00              43.00
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V         161.00             161.00
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.00                106.00
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway /1               85.00              85.00
/1  Not yet effective



ANNEX II
- 30 -                    Page 3 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                              Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits             3,814.00  931.80
less cancellations                           -23.13   -1.65
Total                                        3,790.87  930.15
of which has been repaid                     -92.24   -2.89
Total now outstanding                        3,698.63  927.26
Amount sold to third party            28.24
Amount repaid by third party         -27.21     -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a            3,697.60  927.26
Total undisbursed                            2,457.84  327.09   2,784.93
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
- 31 -                      Page 4 of 28 pages
B. STATE2MENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                               Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor               business            ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6      2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles             2.5      0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0      0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable               2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             4.5      1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               11.0        -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.4      0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0      0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics          0.9        -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -      0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             2.4      0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.0      1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -      1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.4         -       0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             1.3      0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles             0.9        -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market      4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48.0       5.0       53.0
Total gross commitments                           114.8      17.7      132.5
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                74.2       3.4       77.6
Total held by IFC                                  40.6      14.3       54.9
Undisbursed (including participant-s portion)   53.1          0.9       54.0



ANNEX II
-32-                        Page 5 of 28 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of September 30, 1981
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                             6-9
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995 and 1958)
Other Agriculture Production (358, 400, 480, 1318,                         9-13
1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751,
1835, 984, 1898 and 2007)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996 and 1840/1014)              13-14
Rural Development (946)                                                    14
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                 15
Education (387, 869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692 and 1904)                       16-18
Energy (1259, 1365, 1513, 1708, 1872 and 1950)                              18-20
Industrial Development and-Finance
Industrial Estates (428)                                                   21
Development Finance Companies (1363, 1437 and 1703)                        21
Population and Nutrition
population (300, 1472 and 1869)                                            22
Nutrition (1373)                                                           23
Technical Assistance (451, 898 and 1197)                                     24
Transportation
Highways (1236, 1696 and 2049)                                            24-25
Marine Transport (1250)                                                    25
Ports (1337)                                                               26
Tourism (479)                                                                26
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                     26-27
Water Supply (1049 and 1709)                                                 28
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX Ii
33 -                      Page 6 of 28 pages
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project complet-on by four years. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is expected to
be completed by mid-1984. The total project cost is currently estimated
to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate. The credit is expected to be
fully disbursed by December 31, 1982, the new closing date.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1985,
about four years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to a
delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of about two years due to delayed land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year's delay has been added lately by the constant postponement of
drainage works in both Rentang and Cerebon subprojects due to overall budget
constraints imposed by the GOI on the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development annual budget during the last three years. Disbursements are
currently about 73% of the appraisal estimate. It is possible that because
of the continuing delays in this project that the closing date will have to
be postponed.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
credits and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 85,000 ha have been completed and the balance will be
completed by the end of 1981. The construction of North Sadang has suffered
-a delay of about three years due to design revisions and late award of
contracts. All of the remaining works of the project will be completed by
July 1983. Disbursements are currently 25% behind the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System serving an area of about 75,000 ha in Stage I including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in



ANNEX II
-34                          Page 7 of 28 pages
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in the Ciujung subproject. The Madiun
Irrigation and pilot ground water scheme components have made satisfactory
progress and are expected to be completed by the end of 1983. The Ciujung
drainage component has suffered the most delay caused by the late completion
of feasibility studies and inaccurate maps and some difficulties with land
acquisition. Disbursements are currently about 75% behind the appraisal
estimate largely due to initial delays but are expected to improve in 1982
when all of the contracts for the Ciujung drainage component will be under
implementation.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of three components: (a) the Sedeku Irriga-
tion and Drainage Subproject; (b) the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Irrigation Project;
and (c) various studies and investigations. Progress on these components is
as follows: (a) consequent on GOI's decision not to construct the Jragung
Dam, the down river drainage works and designs are being reviewed. Delay in
completion is currently estimated to be about three years; (b) all the
contracts of the Stage I area are awarded and the project is estimated to be
completed by mid-1982, a delay of about one year. Problems of land clearing
and land shaping on about 3,000 ha to convert to sawahs (wet rice fields) are
unresolved and might delay early benefits. The Stage II area was appraised by
the Bank in September 1980 and due to a low economic rate of return it was not
recommended for further Bank consideration; and (c) feasibility studies of ten
systems have been completed. Three projects were recommended for Bank
assistance under the proposed sixteenth irrigation project, two were financed
by KfW and one is proposed to be financed by the Asian Development Bank.
Three ongoing projects would be completed fully by GOI financing. Disburse-
ments are at about 58% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvements of about
34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvements of about 19,900 ha
of Way Seputih; (c) improvements and expansion of about 63,100 ha of Way
Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of two dams
associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and Gumbasa irriga-
tion projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and also studies of
two dams in the Kali Progo project area, extension of irrigation to Bekri,
West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung Province. The Kali Progo
project is behind schedule by 12 months whereas the Way Seuptih and Way
Sekampung projects have slipped further and are behind schedule by 24 months.
The status of down river works of the latter two irrigation systems,
associated with the two dams, was reviewed by the Bank in April/May 1981 and
the GOI was informed that the rehabilitation and extension of irrigation
systems would only be justified if the two dams are built; alternatively the
program under the current project has to be curtailed. Subject to resolving
the issue within six months and if there are no slippages, the current



ANNEX II
- 35 -                   Page 8 of 28 pages
estimated completion is December 1985; a delay of two years. Disbursements
are currently 33% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Due to slow progress the project is currently estimated to be
completed in June 1983, a delay of about one year. The Hydrologic
Measurement Program has been delayed by about 2-1/2 years due to a setback in
the program for procurement of equipment and selection of sites for gauging
stations. Studies for a master plan for the development of the Cimanuk River
Basin have been completed and a final report has been submitted to the Bank.
Detailed designs of flood control works of the Lower Cimanuk, Cipanas and
Ciwaringin Rivers have been completed and construction is proceeding under
Loan 1691-IND. Due to unfavorable foundation conditions at the dam site and
GOI's decision not to construct large dams on Java this component is
indefinitely postponed and it is proposed that these funds be utilized for
feasibility studies of Glapan Barrage and Tuntang River and upgrading of
irrigation systems. Disbursements are about 39% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The Jatiluhur Tertiary Development on an area of 186,000 ha is
proceeding on schedule; construction on 103,731 ha has been completed and
the balance of the area would be covered in two fiscal years 81/82 and
82/83. The Cisedane drainage works have been delayed; two small contracts of
about $2 million were awarded in January-February 1981, and are about 30-40%
completed. Tenders for three major contracts, aggregate $30.4 million,
received in March-April 1981, are expected to be awarded in November 1981.
Right-of-way acquisition is also behind schedule. This subproject is
currently estimated to be completed by March 1985, a delay of two years over
appraisal estimate. All studies are expected to be completed by July 1982.
Disbursements are about 35% of the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the projects are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good and satisfactory progress has
been made on the civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected
to be completed by the end of 1983. Disbursements are currently about 50%
behind the appraisal estimate largely due to initial delays and lately due to
the late award of contracts caused by the review required by the GOI's
procurement committee.



ANNEX II
- 36 -                     Page 9 of 28 pages
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation Project: $116 Million Loan of April 3,
1980; Effeative Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabilita-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of Madiun irrigation
systems serving about 65,000 ha area of Stage II and tertiary development
serving 120,000 ha in the Pemali Comal and Pekalen Sampean Sub-projects. The
project is in the initial stages of mobilization for the Serang River. Works
in Madiun area and tertiary development are progressing well ahead of
schedule. Consultants contracts are being finalized.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation Project: $45 Million Credit of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes: (a) the completion of the Kosinggolan
irrigation system on about 5,500 ha and construction of the new Toraut
irrigation system on about 6,600 ha; (b) catchment protection and a nature
reserve on an area of about 100,000 ha; (c) institutional support to the
Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) through consultancy
services and training; (d) strengthening of mapping capabilities; and (e)
studies and investigations of four irrigation systems. A contract for the
construction of the Toraut headworks and the first two kilometers of the main
canal commenced in early 1981 and two major contracts are programmed for award
in FY81/82. A start has yet to be made on the nature reserve component by the
appointment of.personnel and the construction of the headquarters.
Consultants for the studies and institutional support of the DGWRD have been
appointed. The project is currently about 6-8 months behind schedule.
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation Project: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
This loan was declared effective on July 9, 1981. The project
assists GOI's effort to reclaim and settle swamps by implementing a 9,000 ha
swamp reclamation and settlement project at Karang Agung, South Sumatra. In
addition to physical works, the project comprises the preparation of future
swamp investments, an ecological impact study, an investigation of groundwater
for drinking and project monitoring.
Other Agriculture Production Projects
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: $5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production.  Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.



ANNEX II
- 37 -                   Page 10 of 28 pages
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and
extension advice through a Project Management Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the target area has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed.  The project is making a substantial contribution to
the smallholder tea industry with over 7,000 participants (appraisal forecast
7,700); five private tea estates (four factories) making fair to excellent
progress; one of two new major tea factories to be built; and 16,000
smallholders helped by excellent village and research institute training.
However, disbursements continue to be behind target due to a combination of
early sluggish progress in implementation combined with continued delays that
occur between BRI branch disbursements and submission of applications for
withdrawal.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: $6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by GOI's skipjack tuna enterprise
and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have been ordered
and are due to be delivered late 1981. The quality of fishpond lending by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia suffered early deficiencies, but is now completed; loan
arrears worsened statistically since mid-1980 although they improved
slightly in the first quarter of 1981. Coverage is much less than appraisal
forecast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details not yet available, but
inflation and the inability of smaller owners to participate are probably the
reasons. The skipjack tuna enterprise has improved markedly following a
management change, and catches could improve still further. Although not
a profitable enterprise, it is expected to improve in FY81/82.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although the project is still about 2 years behind schedule, it has
progressed considerably since July 1980. To date about 4,300 families have
been settled in Baturaja, which is 95% of the target. About 200 water
supply reservoirs have been built at Baturaja. The pasture development
program is well established and 4,800 cattle have been distributed. Rubber
development at Baturaja is behind schedule and 1,900 ha need to be planted in
1981/82 to complete the program. The cropping system trials continue to
progress satisfactorily. Disbursements have now reached 62% of appraisal
estimates.



ANNEX II
- 38 -                     Page 11 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
There have been delays in the implementation of the project.  Land
clearing and road construction are now about six months behind appraisal
estimates due to: (a) the rejection of large areas identified for site
development in the appraisal report due to unsuitability for the agri-
cultural development proposed; (b) weak overall project organization and
management; and (c) delays in contractor's and consultant's engagement.
More recently, significant numbers of unauthorized settlers have been found
in areas presently identified for site development, and the GOI has proposed
some changes to design criteria for the large areas already prepared. These
matters are being reviewed with GOI but will likely take some time to resolve.
Consequently, completion of project works and settlement of families are now
expected to lag at least one year behind appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The nucleus estates have planted about 7,000 ha of rubber for
smallholders, constructed about 1,400 settler houses and settled about 850
families. In their own estates, the nucleus estates have rehabilitated 18,400
ha of rubber; planted 7,200 ha of rubber; 3,300 ha of coconuts, and 5,600 ha
of oil palm and are about to complete construction of three rubber
factories and one palm oil mill. Start-up delays are, however, unlikely
to be made up, and the loan closing date may have to be extended at some
future date.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After a slow start in 1979 due to labor shortage, budgetary cons-
traints and procurement difficulties, good progress was achieved in the last
twelve months.  Further improvement is expected in project implementation.
All major project components are, therefore, expected to be completed as
originally planned, except the rubber replanting component in Jambi Province,
which has run into unexpected difficulties due to the reluctance of small-
holders to participate in the replanting scheme.



ANNEX II
- 39 -                   Page 12 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 recently completed settler houses were fully
occupied in April 1981. A PNP Estate being upgraded under the project is to
take over responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component
under NES I (1499-IND) in 1982 from another PTP which has no estate in that
area.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
After an initial delay due to lack of maps the project-s small-
holder development component is off to a good start and is expected to be on
schedule by 1982. The Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V (Loan 2007-IND)
start-up component has progressed well and, largely because of this, the
FY81/82 development targets are likely to be achieved in the major compo-
nent supervised. Other project components are approximately on schedule.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project continues to make satisfactory progress, but at a pace
somewhat slower than envisaged at appraisal.  The shortage of vehicles and
suitable access road is impeding project implementation.  It is anticipated
that the planting program for 1981/82 (about 6,000 ha) will be substantially
achieved. Disbursement in FY82 are expected to be on target at US$7 million.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development Project:  $46 Million
Loan of August 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project has got off to a satisfactory start in spite of
delayed establishment of the project entity and late release of funds. There
are no major problems with the project at this stage and the planting
and rehabilitation targets set for June 1981 should exceed appraisal
estimates by approximately 50%.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 28 pages
- 40 -
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 21, 1981;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
Smallholder development program to establish 53,000 ha of tree
crops (rubber, oil palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West
Java, West Kalimantan and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as
implementing agents.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress continues. Under the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development, civil works in Pangragajian, Baruajak and
Margahayu (all highland vegetable) have been completed, while in Sungei
Putih, Sembawa (both rubber) and in Sukamandi (Phase I and II rice and
palawija crops) are behind schedule due to shortage of laborers and delay in
procurement. Civil works are expected to be completed in Sungei Putih,
Sembawa and Sukamandi (Phase I) by July 1981 and in Sukamandi (Phase II) by
December 1981. Most of the field and workshop equipment, furniture and
vehicles has been received. A contract has been awarded for laboratory
equipment and chemicals for Margahayu and bids for the same for Sungei Putih
and Sembawa are being evaluated. The fellowship program is continuing
satisfactorily. Under the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension, all equipment, furniture and vehicles have been received and
distributed to ten completed agricultural information centers (AICs).
Preparation of tender documents for two additional AICs at Aceh and Ambon
is completed. Extension materials are being produced and distributed from
AICs. Disbursements under the project are improving.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project management unit is functioning at full strength at the
senior level, four other positions are part-time staff. Over 90% of field
extension workers have been appointed, while appointments of subject-matter
specialists have exceeded target.  However, there is an imbalance in that
appointments in the Other Islands is comparatively lower than in Java. Of the
projected civil works program of 64% of the new Rural Extension Centers have
been constructed and 80% rehabilitated. The entire program is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1981. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and
furniture and the training program, both inservices and overseas, are
progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX I.L
Page 14 of 28 pages
- 41 -
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $24 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project is the second phase of the national program for
strengthening extension services covering transmigration areas, estate crops,
livestock, inland fisheries, soil conservation activities in addition to food
crops in 26 provinces. All six Assistant Directors are in position, one
Assistant Director, one Divisional Chief, and two Sectional Heads are working
on part-time basis, the rest being on full-time basis.  57 new Rural Extension
Centers (RECs) have been constructed and 31 renovated; 103 jeeps have been
procuired against the target of 96 during 1980/81. It is proposed to complete
the construction and renovation of all RECs during 1980/81. Adequate
provision has been made in the budget for planned civil works (procurement of
64 jeeps and provincial and village equipment package), inservice training of
791 field extension workers, 120 extension subject matter specialists and
overseas fellowships during 1981/82.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1040) Million Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is -the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry, estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops.
A Ministerial decree announcing the appointments of directors for the Central
Research Institutes and Research Institutes and Centers already approved by
the Minister of Agriculture, became effective in March 1981. The project
secretary and one head of office are yet to be appointed. Of civil works at
six locations planned for 1980/81, four have been tendered and a contract for
one awarded. Civil works at twelve locations have been programmed for
1981/82. Fifty candidates for long term local fellowships have been
selected. A consulting firm for technical assistance is expected to be
appointed in July 1981.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Project implementation continues to run behind schedule, but staff
development and collection/analysis of basic data have made good progress,
and physical construction and field operations within the agricultural
component show encouraging advances, despite adverse conditions (protracted
nonpayment of project staff salaries because of late release of funds and
unavailability of transportation). However, an assurance given by the
Provincial Government to bridge any financing gaps for payment of staff
salaries, due to belated arrival of project funds, from its own budget,



ANNEX II
- 42 -                       Page 15 of 28 pages
should put staff remuneration on a more regular schedule.  The expeditious
procurement of project vehicles, the absence of which is more acutely felt
as field operations grew in number and scope, remains a major concern.
Project completion is presently expected for mid-1987, implying a delay of
about nine months.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia-s (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP. Despite
start-up difficulties, BI has now established and staffed all project
management units. The three field units in Central Java, East Java, and West
Sumatra are developing new lending approaches and assisting handling banks in
project promotion and preparation. The training and studies components of the
project are progressing satisfactorily. On the whole, progress under this
project (SEDP I) has been satisfactory. The credit component of the project
has been fully disbursed, but the technical assistance component will not be
fully disbursed for two years. The undisbursed proceeds of this credit are
being used for technical assistance to the Ministry of Industry. The closing
date has been postponed to enable disbursements for the technical assistance
component to be made.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training
in term lending, credit procedures and accounting and management information
systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy services,
the project is about nine months behind schedule. Following extension
of the project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it is
rapidly catching up.
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I (Credit 785-IND) this
project would be expanded to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small
Investment (KIK)/Small Permanent working Capital Credit (KMKP) program has
been in operation since 1974. In addition to credit and technical assistance
to the banking system, the project provides for the strengthening of



ANNEX II
- 43 -                    Page 16 of 28 pages
nonfinancial support services for small scale enterprises (SSEs) by the
Ministry of Industry. This is being financed by $1 million from the proceeds
of this loan and the undisbursed credit proceeds of SEDP I (Credit 785-IND).
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education: $13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
This first textbook project is an ambitious undertaking under diffi-
cult circumstances. Since the start five years ago, over 150 million books
have been printed, 120% of the appraisal target, and about 430,000 teachers
have been upgraded, or 23% over the original target of 350,000. About 100
million books have been distributed to schools. Textbook distribution to
schools continues to pose problems and quality control of textbooks cannot
be maintained by the present number and quality of staff. Printing of
Grade 5 texts will start soon and the Project Implementing Unit has been
asked to take steps to ensure an adequate supply of paper for production
of Grade 6 texts as well as reprinting of other texts. Project costs have
increased due to the increased scope of the project and inflation since 1973.
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit is helping to finance: (a) the establishment of a
technical Education Development Center (TEDC), six polytechnics and four
accountancy development centers (ADCs); (b) related technical assistance and
associated studies - as required to meet the project's objectives of:
(i) establishing a new system for training engineering technicians;
(ii) improving accountancy training; and (iii) strengthening educational
planning and management. Implementation of physical components is being
initiated somewhat behind appraisal schedule but is progressing well and
should be completed by July 1982, well before the closing date.
Implementation of technical assistance is progressing on schedule for the TEDC
and the polytechnics, but lags about 16 months behind schedule for the ADCs.
Five studies financed under the project are also behind schedule, in some
instances by as much as 24 months. The total project cost is close to
appraisal estimate and disbursements exceed appraisal forecasts.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing teaching
training colleges (FKITs) and four new centralized workshops for technical



ANNEX II
_ 44 -                     Page 17 of 28 pages
training (TTCs) for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers (VTCs), an existing instructor training center and
25 mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country's
principal civil service training institution. In the MEC subproject
construction of all institutions has been completed and all are in use though
operating under some difficulties since about half of their equipment needs
have still to be received. The MOM and LAN subprojects are progressing about
two and a half and three years behind schedule respectively and the Closing
Date has consequently been extended by two years. Delays have been
occasioned, initially, by slow site acquisition and, subsequently, by belated
release of funds and prolonged consideration of claims for the adjustment of
contract prices to compensate for the 1978 devaluation of the Rupiah. The
underlying cause has been weak management. The total project cost is likely
to exceed the appraisal estimate by about 50% in local currency terms but only
slightly (perhaps 3%) in terms of US$ equivalent (due to the change in the
exchange rate during implementation). The rate of disbursement is improving.
Adequate steps are being taken to staff new institutions as they are
commissioned and a national skill standards system is being developed.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. About 36% of civil
works have been completed. Phase I is 95% completed. Phase II is
approximately 75% completed. Tendering for the third and final phase has
begun and construction is expected to be finished in April 1982. Furniture
is being supplied to completed buildings according to schedule. Equipment
procurement is about one year behind schedule. The first cycle began
in July 1981 and will finish in mid-1982. Four hundred administrators are
being trained and will conduct local seminars. Project studies are to be
completed mid-1981. While disbursements are currently only 31% of appraisal
estimates, it is expected that they will accelerate considerably during
the coming months. Despite earlier delays and the low disbursement
level, the project is expected to be completed as planned.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education-s
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover civil
works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial centers,
instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance. Of the
six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school education) centers, five have
been completed. Construction at the remaining two centers is 50% completed;



ANNEX II
- 45 -                   Page 18 of 28 pages
both centers will be ready by August, 1981.  All furniture and equipment have
been ordered; 80% is already on site and the rest is due to arrive later this
year. About 90% of the staff trainin:g program is meeting appraisal targets,
production and distribution of pretested learning materials is accelerating.
The technical assistance program is on schedule; local staff are gradually
replacing foreign consultants. Disbursements will increase substantially this
year and are expected to reach 90% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. Good
progress continues to be made. Although some slippage has developed in the
physical implementation, it is not yet serious.  Costs are tending to rise.
The project also provides technical assistance for the improvement of
curricula, education planning and evaluation; this technical assistance has
started, and fellowship utilization is up to schedule. Efforts to redress
a shortage of teachers outside Java are making steady progress. Through its
national schools, the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Exten-
sion is having significant impact on improving the efficiency of regional
and private schools, as planned. Little progress has been made on evaluation,
tracer or manpower studies; specialist assistance is expected to stimulate
these activities.
Loan No. 1904   University Development Project:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Loan was declared effective on January 22, 1981. The project
is the first phase of a long-term university development program. Its main
objectives are to increase the output of high level manpower in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business
administration and accountancy), improve the quality of university education
in these four fields, and strengthen the management of the overall university
system.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  $90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily to
completion. Disbursement targets for FY81 were substantially (98%) met and
the loan is expected to be drawn down within the extended closing date
(December 1981), six months later than-scheduled at appraisal. Installation
of 80% of medium voltage (20 kV) cables and 50% of the 20 kV overhead lines
has been completed. This represents satisfactory progress as the scope of



ANNEX II
- 46                      Page 19 of 28 pages
these items of the project was considerably increased as a result of
favorable prices obtained during bidding. Progress on construction of the
low voltage networks has been slow (about 40%) but it has been programmed to
complete the rest of this work by March 1982. Construction of the project
should be substantially completed by mid-1982.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Construction work on the project is reaching its final stage. The
slow performance of the electrical and mechanical contractor has delayed
progress on construction and slowed down disbursements, as the main
expenditure now is on this item of work. Firing of the boiler for Unit 4
has been delayed; steam admission will also be delayed, but it is expected
that the unit will be in commercial operation during the latter half of 1981.
Unit 5 is expected to be commissioned by end-1981. There are no other
problems of significance at the power station. There is concern, however,
that the 150 kV ring around Jakarta (not Bank-assisted) will not be
strengthened in time to run the power station at its full capacity (700 mW),
although the electricity authority (PLN) is making a concerted effort to
complete ongoing work on the transmission lines and substations involved.
The delay in commissioning of Units 4 and 5 is estimated at about nine months
and six months, respectively.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All contracts have been awarded at highly competitive costs with
a substantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
loan has been cancelled. The latest cost estimate update indicates that a
further saving will be realized compared to appraisal estimate. Subsequently
therefore, the Bank has agreed to the inclusion of the following additional
studies in the scope of the project:  (a) Sunda Strait submarine cable
feasibility; (b) optimization of location of future thermal plants: (c)
power sector management information system design; and (d) energy pricing
study. Construction work at the site has been delayed by the need to devise
a new method of pile driving to avoid soil displacement. This work has now
been completed and installation of the main plant resumed. The boiler has
been received at site and is under erection. The turbo generator is expected
to be received during the latter part of 1981. Although work of the civil
works of the substations and associated transmission lines has been delayed,
it is progressing satisfactorily. The feasibility study of the Turan
coal-fired thermal power station site in East Java has progressed to the
point of selection of a site for detailed investigations; these are in
progress. Contracts for the additional five studies mentioned above have not
been signed, but proposals for (a) and (c) have been received and are being
evaluated.



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 28 pages
- 47 -
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $1/5 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is now about eight months behind schedule due to
(a) slow progress of work by the piling contractor in site improvement;
(b) delay in finalizing various critical contracts; and (c) delay in final-
izing designs and tender documents for the marine works. The most signifi-
cant contributory factor in the delays is the cumbersome procedures for
evaluating bids and approval of contracts that have been introduced as a
result of Presidential Decrees 10 and 14A (procurement procedures). Also,
the GOI-s budgetary process makes it difficult for the electricity authority
and the project management to have flexibility in the deployment of Rupiah
funds. The Bank is continuing to pursue these problems with the GOI. Dis-
bursements are much slower than projected. Project cost estimates are now
based on available contract and tender prices and the total cost of
contracts being financed by the Bank loan amount to $140 million, plus
contingencies. Present indications are that there will be a saving of
about $20 million in the loan amount.
Loan No. 18/2   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is still not affected. Tenders for EHV
lines, substations, transformers and reactors were received in November-
December 1980 and as of the last supervision mission in July 1981, were
expected to be finalized in October 1981. Commissioning date for the EHV
lines and substation is now estimated to be June 1982, which would be ahead
of the commissioning of the first Suralaya unit in August 1984, though six
months behind the appraisal schedule. Progress in land acquisition is
satisfactory, the land for all substations has been purchased. Also,
negotiations for the purchase of land for tower locations is in progress.
Tenders for control and communications equipment were issued in April 1981.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power Project:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
This loan was declared effective on April 23, 1981. The project
would utilize the hydroelectric potential of the Citarum River to meet
Java's growing demand for economical electricity.



ANNEX II
- 48 -                       Page 21 of 28 pages
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1q82. Of 415 ha of raw land now earmarked for acquisition, 358 ha had been
purchased as of mid-1981, 164 ha of developed land reserved for factory use
has been sold to 210 firms, with employment currently estimated at around
9,700; at full capacity production employment is expected to be around
23,000 workers. Despite the slow development of the estate resulting in
protracted disbursement of the credit, and substantially higher cost than
estimated at appraisal, PT JIEP's financial performance has been
satisfactory. Some adjustments of its dividend, cost and price policies
were nevertheless called for and were recommended to PT JIEP during the last
project supervision mission. GOI has agreed to designate 22.5 ha of the
Pulo Gadung industrial estate as an Export Processing Zone (EPZ) with PT
JIEP as the sole administrator. The closing date of the credit was
therefore postponed by two years to December 31, 1982, reallocating the
remaining funds for the establishment of the EPZ. However, the loan docu-
ments have not yet been amended because the required Presidential Decree and
subsequent operating license by the Department of Trade and Cooperatives
have not yet been issued.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  $15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effectave Date: April 21,1977; Closing Date: December 31,1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. PDFCI has deliberately
spread Bank funds over as large a number of subprojects as possible to match
its resources from Bank Indonesia. The loan is now fully committed and
disbursements are expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  $40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effectave Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily. The loan was fully
committed by the end of 1979 and $36.1 million was disbursed as of March 31,
1981. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the present closing date.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This project is being implemented satisfactorily.  Commitments
have increased rapidly since the last supervision mission in May 1980. As
of March 31, 1981, 73% of the loan had been committed. Disbursements have
also caught up and it is now expected that the loan will be fully committed
by September 1981 and fully disbursed by the closing date.



ANNEX II
Page 22 of 28 pages
- 49 -
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: $13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is nearing completion. The family planning program
continues to show outstanding performance. Annual targets of new contracep-
tive acceptors for the period 1972/73-1980/81 were nearly all exceeded.
Current contraceptive users as a proportion of married women of reproductive
age increased from 27% in 1979 to 36% in 1981. The birth rate is estimated to
have declined from about 44-46 per 1,000 population in 1971 to around 32-34
per 1,000 population in 1980. All the activities financed out of project
savings have been completed, except the utilization of two overseas
fellowships and the installation of the computer. Two officials of the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board have been nominated for the
fellowships to undergo training during this year. Installation of the
computer is expected to be completed shortly and conversion of existing
programs and testing are scheduled to also be completed shortly. All
activity connected with the computer should be completed by the end of
August 1981. Disbursements are expected to be completed by the scheduled
closing date of December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. The construction of all buildings has been completed.
The major issues outstanding are (a) expediting the implementation of the
contraceptive raw materials study, (b) implementation of the community
incentive scheme, and (c) acceleration of the rate of disbursement.
Regarding the contraceptive raw materials study, the mission was assured
that all obstacles will be overcome and progress should be faster in the
coming months. The community incentive scheme has been redesigned and the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN) undertook to prepare
an operational plan for review. This is expected shortly and we expect
implementation to start on schedule early 1981.  Progress on these aspects,
coupled with timely submission of withdrawal applications, should
contribute to the acceleration of the rate of disbursement. The BKKBN is
also reviewing the costs of the project in order to determine the extent of
savings. We expect to receive the revised costs as well as proposals for
utilization of project savings, if any, shortly.



ANNEX II
- 50 -                      Page 23 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1869   Third Population:  $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
This loan was declared effective on September 10, 1980 and a
smooth start to project implementation has begun. A Ministerial Decree
establishing a steering committee and appointing a project coordinator has
been signed. Civil works constitute the largest component of this project
and considerable attention is being given to this component so that delays
will not occur; the mission recommended that the staff entrusted with the
handling of this project be brought to at least the strength of that
provided for the second project (Loan 1472-IND).
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Despite initial difficulties which resulted in an overall delay of
about 1-1/2 years, project implementation is being improved and sustained.
Due mainly to the devaluation of the Rupiah and revised construction
standards, project cost is considerably less than anticipated at appraisal.
A partial reallocation of funds between components and categories has thus
been proposed. This measure, along with 18 months postponement of the
completion date, would allow virtually all appraisal targets to be
achieved as well as a modest expansion (beyond those targets) of existing
activities of the more successfull components, and would not alter project
concept, objectives or content. With regard to present project status, the
Center for Research and Development of Nutrition (CRDN) is now operational
and a long-term research program is under preparation. Food Technolgy
Development Center (FTDC) staff have moved to the new campus. The pilot
plant is still unfinished, but should be functioning by the end of 1981.
Village food storage is fast becoming an important area for further trials
and development. Nutrition Academy enrollment has been increased to 24,
with consequential staffing and space requirements. Consultants on the
Nutrition Improvement Pilot Project (NIPP) have produced an interim report,
reintroducing a positive, promotive program which accords with the views
expressed by previous Bank missions. Nutrition Education consultants have
submitted two reports on communication and behavioral change; pre-tested
materials are ready for reproduction.  All NIPP villages will be covered.
Arrangements have been made for radio and television airtime. The Nutrition
Anemia Pilot Project (NAPP) has continued on schedule and shows favorable
returns on investment. No advance has been made in the preparation of a
master plan for home garden improvement. The closing date has been post-
poned by one year to March 31, 1983.



ANNEX II
- 51 -                      Page 24 of 28 pages
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic,
photographic processing, including color photo processing equipment and
printing equipment required to produce maps, is installed. Computer equipment
for resource analysis including a topographic data bank and flatbed plotter
has been installed. Various resource evaluation activities have been
undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and training of new staff,
particularly at junior and middle level has recently been accelerated. The
new photography operation financed under the parallel Canadian Project was
delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend the project until end
of 1983. The photography operation is now expected to start in July 1981 and
completed at the end of 1983.
TRANSPORTATION
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project has been under implementation for four and a half years.
Because of slow execution, the closing date has been postponed by two years to
December 31, 1982. The only component still ongoing is the road betterment
program and the related consultancies for works supervision. Other
consultancies have been completed satisfactorily, sometimes with substantial
delays. Design changes by the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) geared to
speeding up construction works were reviewed by the October 1980 supervision
mission. Most of the changes were accepted but reinstatement of the original
standards in a few specific cases is now being finalized by DGH. According to
estimates there is expected to be a surplus of up to $10.5 million in the loan
account. Ways in which to use this surplus are under discussion; one option
is to increase the volume of road betterment by including new sections in the
project.



ANNEX II
- 52 -                      Page 25 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly two years ago, is
substantially behind schedule. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious
project objectives, which translate into program-type components and numerous
consultancies; (b) overcentralization of the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH); (c) a shift of senior staff within DGH; and (d) new development
guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the spread of investments
over a larger number of projects with reduced standards. The latest
supervision mission noted a marked improvement in project execution, with all
components now actively pushed forward by DGH, and the project should be
completed with a total delay of only one year. The road betterment program is
well underway. The major issue of reoptimization of road betterment standards
is now solved satisfactorily and DGH should soon send to the Bank the contract
amendments legalizing the agreed changes. Tendering for the first batch of
bridge replacements should start soon. The Provincial Departments of Public
Works programs of support works for 1981 have just been submitted to the Bank
following several revisions. $6.8 million of the loan amount has been
cancelled due to misprocurement of road maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The project would increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is part of the first phase of the Government's Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. Demand for general cargo
ships in the Regular Liner Service (RLS) expected at appraisal was slow in
materializing due to (i) slow scrapping of obsolete ships with consequent
reduced replacement demand; and (ii) effects of the rupiah devaluation on the
price of replacement ships. Conditions considerably improved in 1979 and 80%
of the loan has now been committed. The project entity, P.T. PANN, is
reasonably well managed; the operation and maintenance of its ships is being
regularly monitored and no major financial problems exist in its Bank-financed
operations. P.T. PELNI, the state-owned shipping line, accounting for about
half of the RLS, continues to incur substantial losses. On January 27, 1981,
Motor Vessel Tampomas operated by P.T. PELNI caught fire and sank while
carrying passengers from Jakarta to Sulawesi. The purchase of this ship was
financed in part from the proceeds of this loan. The circumstances of the
accident are the subject of an ongoing GOI Court of Inquiry.



ANNEX II
- 53 -                     Page 26 of 28 pages
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date:  March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the
impact of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation, are completed, and the Basin III civil
works finance by the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, are 85%
completed. Civil works financed by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are
62% completed. The work is now three months in arrears and a revised
construction schedule is being prepared. These delays will probably postpone
overall completion of the project but it is too early to estimate the full
effect of delays on project cost. Several Bank-financed studies which are
underway or have been completed, will enable the Government to identify
components of a further ports project suitable for Bank financing.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
With the exception of the amenity core and the extension of some
utility services, infrastructure at Nusa Dua is complete. The access road
to Nusa Dua from the airport and the Denpasar bypass road were completed and
opened for traffic in December 1980. The preparation of additional infra-
structure improvements and possible participation by the Bali Tourism Deve-
lopment Board (BTDC) in hotel investment for Nusa Dua utilizing the uncom-
mitted portion of the credit is underway. On the other hand, the Ministry
of Transport is proposing to use additional funds from the credit to cover the
cost overrun incurred on the already completed access and bypass road
component.  The allocation of the uncommitted funds to the two agencies is
under review by the Government. The market for tourism to Bali has held up
well in 1980/81. Hotel occupancies in international standard hotels in Bali
exceed 80%. The construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa
Dua is progressing well for completion in December 1982. The negotiations
with Club Mediterranee for a holiday village has been finalized and the
construction is expected to start in early 1982.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of provision of basic infrastructural
facilities including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste



ANNEX II
Page 27 of 28 pages
- 54 -
disposal to about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas in Jakarta and 374
ha in Surabaya. Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot
program in both cities. Except for small carryover items (filter plant, deep
wells and health clinics) and the conduct of a proposed urban transport study
for Jakarta under the technical assistance component (Jakarta transport study,
Semarang and Surabaya drainage studies), the project progress is essentially
complete. Upgrading costs for the program have been within the appraisal
estimates. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in
Surabaya have been covered so far, benefitting a total population of about
1.4 million. About 180 community health workers in Jakarta and 93 in
Surabaya have been trained and are working in the improved kampungs.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha)
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs. The kampung
improvement is proceeding satisfactorily in all project cities. The
implementation progress of solid waste management and drainage components has
improved during this fiscal year (FY80/81) compared to last year. This
technical assistance component is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1972   Fourth Urban Development Project: $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The loan has not yet been declared effective. The project expands
the Bank's assistance to GOI's basic shelter programs evolved in earlier
projects and concentrated mainly in Jakarta and the major cities of East Java
to nine provincial capital cities spread throughout Indonesia. Basic infra-
structure and housing facilities will be provided through slum impovement and
sites and services developments on a total of over 2,000 ha benefitting an
estimatad 800,000 persons. Improvements to citywide infrastructure
deficiencies in main drainage; water supply and solid waste disposal will be
studied and implemented in three cities. A national urban mapping program
covering 125 cities will be undertaken providing base data for future city
planning, land registration and valuation programs. Institutional develop-
ment is a prominent feature and technical assistance for management, training
and feasibility studies to various urban authorities and agencies will be
provided.



ANNEX II
Page 28 of 28 pages
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  $14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is about two and a half years behind schedule. Time was
lost because of delays in design work, tender evaluations, awards and contract
processing. All equipment supply and all major civil works contracts have
been completed or are under execution. Pipelaying is the only remaining major
work in progress and is delayed by the slow supply of special fittings. A
cost overrun of about 45% is expected.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date:  February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is 9-12 months behind schedule due to delays in loan
effectiveness and in tendering and award of contracts. Most procurement
contracts for equipment have been awarded except for the water meter contract.
The civil works bidding documents for the construction of water treatment
plants were approved during the last supervision mission and were tendered
in September 1981. A problem affecting the Directorate of Sanitary
Engineering (DSE) in managing the project is its delay in employing management
consultants to develop the administrative capacity of the seven beneficiary
water enterprises (WEs) and to employ a management specialist for DSE's own
organization; both actions have been delayed and DSE's staff is not adequately
monitoring the WEs because of inexperience and heavy workload. Additional
staff have been employed for this purpose and are being trained.



- 56 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VI PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project : 2 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project : GOI with Bank and consultant
assistance
(c)  First submission to the Bank         :  1979
(d) First Bank mission to identify the
project                            : March 1981
(e) Dates of departure of appraisal
mission                            : August 1981
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:  February 1982
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness           July 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Start-up funds are provided in the NES V project to help ensure
early implementation of the NES VI project.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)       Special conditions of disbursement against individual project
components are:
(i)  Signing of Smallholder Development Agreements between the DGE and
the nucleus estates to specify work to be carried out for
smallholder development, in form and substance acceptable to the
Bank (para. 39);
(ii)  Completion of financing arrangements between the GOI and the
individual estates, in form and substance acceptable to the
Bank (para. 44); and
(iii)  GOT's issuing of leases to PNP XXVIII for its project site at
Seram (para. 44).
(b) A special condition of effectiveness is fullfilment of all condi-
tions precedent to the effectiveness of CDC loan agreement
(para. 55).



ISRD 16212
M ak    --                                                                     106050'                                        107°00'                                         10710'         JANUARY 1982
Ba, / 0000 >zt' 77)oR-             0V, 'SE                                                                                              INDONESIA
S-sy71yarigDabuahr  ~ V  Cskampak ' f '\  ~f°°'NUCLEUS  ESTATES AND  SMALLHOLDERS VI PROJECT 700.
I tpRpm xM   "                 Oo          P                                                                                                 WEST   JAVA    SITE   (PTP XII)
u ' rt  r    e WEST         JAVA
\S-esth'    'Ea nten    -   . I | ,11L   PROPOSED NUCLEUS ESTATE SITES
Oit Pi,d IP TP X/)  '-'       -                                                                                                                 '] PROPOSED SMALLHOLDER SITES
1 FOREST AREAS
C-1'ooot Txlp b 9     .                                                                                                 _                   PROPOSED ACCESS ROAD
000000  A2..e....~fl.ZAOdInpSaot0g  Cio,m/ =                                                                                    ROADS                                               To Coot/SO
oIl 00000 CcOt 'XII                                                                                                                    RIVERS
---_  w_ >  Sf                        -  -  P KABUPATEN  (DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES
________________________________________________________                                                      ~~~~~~PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
T Os-OaOO,        1060 40'
7010.                                                                                                                                   KILOMETERS   9   ?    4,     6    6     1 0                                7010'-
/                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
/ ~      ~ r->N                        D                                                                     I:XN0CEXf0                ,; f
;E               4
Surane  I  o700?\4 .-.   37~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ga
7'30'                                                                                                                                                                             7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<1.~oTo    t  '0'
/V 0   A  N           0 C  F A   N~~~~~9.5)"                                                                                  0
106'40'                                       106 60u 107f0 Wa  10, 500 coOveo,eOo
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&Il*,. S 0do~t05teSpOOlo lot,,~yato0fsot



I



IBRD 16213
\00,0000 ToAILAND                      ;' t t PPr.                                                                            102045'             JANUARY  1982
-tiX   '-''   BRLN:Ia  '--    - ,                                                 INDONESIA
,  CilC CCLAN                       NUCLEUS    ESTATES   AND
pC 95lNS00o4E< -Ez       __       j _      _   2SMALLHOLDERS VI PROJECT
. v                    ,         -p           £C', SCRAIWMTAVi   <#AfBENGKULU (SELUMA  SITE) PTP XXIII
,1t<,1   .   {  .ai.p 'P~~~~s`11 '                        'I-Pe   ' 'A(t I
--0-00              --'~N.                           ,rB          PL=;or    _ c   J    _PROPOSED NUCLEUS ESTATE SITES NES VI
'''   'AL _, ,T-rlMOR               . $_            s         ] PREVIOUS NUCLEUS ESTATE STES (RUBBER) NES V
-             - -----CONSTRUCTED ACCESS ROAD
102°15'                                         To C-           0230                                        ROADS
To Pod-0E 
70 Padang _f - ' t i R 1 VE R S
, / /,-   -   - KABUPATEN ID STRICT) BOUNDARIES
-  . NTERPAT ONAL BOUNDARIES
, Lpglhit-m                                                                  TfIK0P/-g
\035~                ,JS                                                    TE"Koo K KLMETFRS,8
|   2     ..    !             t .           /  ')                    ~~~~~~~~ ~      ~ ~          ~      ~~M ILES   246
\~~~~~~~~~~O,  000 00,~0od,  A ' 0?0/ , ntpn
New~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T Port,   \                               0o I'  
B-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
NUP NP _- ULU
q's~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
-3045!                              ,/__r_                                                                                                                         3745
-IdCOCLS ESTATE  'TO  XXII
:"'SEC  IA.ES V-
* - tS>/- AS;SX I ' /^ - E rS ~~~~~~~~~~~Lubukg,mbar) 
Gaja hi
/                                                       Padanglebar
102010 15                                                \       1502'303       To M                                               102445



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I                             I



IBRD 15636
128-30'                                                                        129010  2jrqi 93
.5  e   r  a   rn                 5  e   a                                            
Soabuwe                           taela`-
7                                                                         K \  X    >>   )   f  ,       \             Paoni p:j
Kaw, o                                                       / 1)                                                        /,
j//\S ~     ~~~ i*    ,;A  . (                                                          r           ,,                               2\
t  \) l-4       ~~~/            K. ' '1                                  )1i't;1J    
>JcPiru              (   <'< rPopela                    1/      5          7         9                     4M
-7-            I - 700Piru i\
t;y   ;     i_   ~~Lumol,/ 
, \? ll >K \ )\ \ { <#A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hiolo +   
Zi ~~~N                          \  S_iN                      ;                           \ A,s'9 
Ni                                                                  ''  _>  k  - \ t-'//;  l
)t ~~~~~(                                    /                                      _          l  /~g'   _  )
Waesamu                                                                                                           J
t  \\\~~~~~~,                   (5)                    )                                                                 -, -i /k  
G/,1f of P:n- ,\    y   \                    >    A/   G  ; / r-               Amah<                =
\       7-                       ---        fr-n>y 
> ualooi
Rumahakai                                     -
-a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Serorn So-air
:C°30             ~~~                                              22   >8         4(                                                                 3°30-
M  * * B              , bflYa'           / g       N               -               I-   1        , 
i     < MoreatIa             - d                                        JX S PARU
~~A~ 11        6h0-A/   \-7outehu                                                          Ul   )    or  t, 
sY   X7 )    r 4                                                          ~~~~~~~~INDONESIA
,gS  \'                               ~~~~NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VI PROJECT
AU                tMALUKU (SERAM SITE) PNP XXVIII
M./  - f thJs etpreprtrbvheh t Vl Btnst- ffl cidv,  forth d-, vtn,s- c -=- h                       PROPOSED ESTATE SITES(PNP XXVRIt)
thI.   - 1-Y  9th,                 /    b oflti~ Wd 8                          "kQ-I9t
tlu  dg-esno ro hsmhP fqd vt.6ltJ Divf y t-,t- t     -yot,/,d__smet rEXISTING ROADS
TRACKS
---  '--                                                                 RIVERS
AMEtt-ty500rsetaft, ^,4  > wo    fw                                                           ,3      PROVINCfAL CAPITAL(MALUKoW
( g  MINDai 'iOP4CIFCt CEI'                                                _  _    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
' > | * . j te , L _ 2 ,: 1 : ~~KILOMETERSI                                                  1,     2p   '5       320 
MALUKESRSIIE  NPXVI
bonarisst   nti sa ftnnote mdt on tes'ofteWrd GaI adis
* - W5 IAFI OsEtrz  Bttf             t lnor u              _4noa                                                                                129°fJO'



