Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16525-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
PARTICIPATORY PRIVATIZATION OF IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT
AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
September 18, 1997
Rural Development and Enviromnent Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Turkish lira per US$1)
1994                  32,000
1995                   55,000
1996                   95,000 (as of November)
1997                   150,000 (as of August)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CC                     Consultant Coordinator
DSI                    Devlet Su Isleri (State Hydraulic Works)
GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
GOT                    Govermment of Turkey
GDRS                   General Directorate of Rural Services
Ha                     Hectares
ICB                    International Competitive Bidding
IIT                    Irrigation Investment Transfer (including management of irrigation investment)
IMT                    Irrigation Management (mainly O&M) Transfer to Users
IRR                    Internal Rate of Return
IS                    International Shopping
LTCs                   Long-term Consultants
M                      Million
NCB                    National Competitive Bidding
NS                     National Shopping
OCC                    Opportunity Cost of Capital
OECD                   Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
O&M                    Operation and Maintenance
PPII                   Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Investment (including management of
investment)
PPIM                   Participatory Irrigation Management
RC                     Regional Coordinator
SCF                    Standard Conversion Factor
TA                     Technical Assistance
TOR                    Terms of Reference
WUA                    Water Users' Association
WUO                    Water Users' Organization
TERMS
Consultants            Consultants for project implementation; also called project consultants
IIT and PPII           These are used interchangeably
IMT and PPIM           These are used interchangeably
Irrigation Ratio       Ratio of area irrigated to irrigable area
Transfer               PPIM or IMT
Transferred Schemes    Schemes where irrigation management (mainly O&M) are transferred to WUOs
TURKEY FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
This report is based on the findings of a Bank pre-appraisal mission that visited Turkey in February 1997
comprising Joma Mohamadi (Mission Leader and Task Manager), Gurhan Ozdora (Projects Officer), and
consultants Suha Satana (Economist) and Helen Shahriari (Sociologist). Herve Plusquellec, Richard
Reidinger and Ashok Subramanian were peer reviewers.



TURKEY
PARTICIPATORY PRIVATIZATION OF IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT
AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
1. BACKGROUND ..............................................                                                                1
A. IRRIGATION SECTOR ..............................................                               II
B. O&M PROBLEMS ..............................................                                                              2
C. IRRIGATION INVESTMENT PROBLEMS ..............................................                                            2
D. SOLUTIONS ..............................................                                                                 3
E. PROGRESS ON IMT AND RESULTS ..............................................                                               3
F. NEED FOR STRENGTHENING IMT ..............................................                                                5
G. PROJECT CONCEPT ..............................................                                                           5
2. THE PROJECT AREA ..............................................                                                          6
A. PROJECT AREA RELATED TO O&M  EQUIPMENT ..............................................                                    6
B. PROJECT          AREA OF PILOT DRIP IRRIGATION SCHEME ..............................................                     7
3. THE PROJECT.                                                                                                             8
At. PROEC  OBJECTIVES................................................................................................................................. 
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES .......................8
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND COMPONENTS .............................................                                         8
C. DESIGN FEATURES OF THE PROJECT ............................................. 12
D. PROJECT COSTS ..............................................                                                            13
E. PHASED FINANCING OF THE PROJECT ............................................. 14
F. THE PROPOSED GRANT ............................................. 15
G. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND ASPECTS                               ..                      ........................................... 16
H. PARTICIPATION AND WOMEN'S ROLE .............................................                                            16
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .............................................                                                    17
A. IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITY .............................................                                             17
B. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ............................................. 1 8
C. PROJECT COORDINATION AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                                ......................................... 22
D. MONITORING AND REPORTING .............................................                                                  22
E. PROCUREMENT .............................................                                                               23
F. DISBURSEMENTS .............................................                                                            26
5. BENEF1TS, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND RISKS .............................................                                     27
A. PROJECT BENEFITS .............................................                                                          27
B. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .............................................                                                         29
C. JUSTIFICATION FOR THE PROPOSED GRANT ................................     ;                                             30
D. RISKS .............................                  ...                                                                31
6. AGREEMENTS ........................                                                                                     32
A. CONDITIONS FOR EFFECTIVENESS ........................                                                                   32
B. AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS ...................................                                              32



CONTENTS (cont'd)
ANNEXES
A.  COST TABLES
B.  PILOT DRIP IRRIGATION SCHEME
C.  MONITORABLE INDICATORS
D. CONSULTANTS' TERMS OF REFERENCE
E.  IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
F.  PROCUREMENT
G.  ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
H.  LEGAL ASPECTS
1.  SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
J.  DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
K.  COST OF PROJECT WITH INCLUSION OF ENVISAGED FOLLOW-UP LOAN
L.  COST OF O&M EQUIPMENT CONSIDERED TO BE PURCHASED UNDER THE
ENVISAGED FOLLOW-UP LOAN OF US$17.5 MILLION
MAP
IBRD No. 28711



TURKEY
PARTICIPATORY PRIVATIZATION OF IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT
AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                          Republic of Turkey
Implementing Organizations:        Water User Organizations (WUOs), with the support
and supervision of State Hydraulic Works and General
Directorate of Rural Services.
Beneficiaries:                     WUOs and Participating Farmers
Poverty Category:                  Not applicable
Amount:                            US$20 million
Terms:                             Payable in seventeen years, including five years of
grace, at the standard interest rate for LIBOR-based, US
dollar, single currency loans.
Commitment Fee:                    0.75 percent of undisbursed credit balances, beginning
60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:                   Not applicable
Financing Plan (US$ M):
IBRD Total           20.00
Government            1.34
Subtotal WUOs        37.44
Total                58.78
Economic Rate of Return:           72% (excluding Pilot Drip Irrigation Scheme component
for which ERR = 19%)
Staff Appraisal Report:            16525-TU
Map:                               IBRD No. 28711
Project ID Number:                 TR-PA-9072



TURKEY
PARTICIPATORY PRIVATIZATION OF IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT
AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. BACKGROUND
A. IRRIGATION SECTOR
1.1 Role of Agriculture and Irrigation. Agriculture's share of Turkey's GDP is
approximately 14%. It is the largest sector in terms of employment (42% compared with
industry at 16% and services at 38%). Irrigated land accounts for 34% of agricultural
GDP (excluding livestock). There are 28 M ha of arable land, of which 8.5 M ha are
classified as economically irrigable, and 4.2 M ha (private and public combined) are
irrigated.
1.2 Organizations Responsible for Irrigation. The State Hydraulic Works (DSI), the
General Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS) and Water User Organizations (WUOs)
have responsibility for irrigation development and management. All large irrigation
systems in Turkey are developed by DSI, which is under the Ministry of Energy and
Natural Resources. GDRS, under the Prime Minister's Office, is responsible for minor
irrigation works and on-farm development of irrigation works completed by DSI. DSI
has developed 1.63 M ha of the arable land in Turkey. Over 96% of these areas were
operated and maintained by DSI until mid-1993, when it began a program of irrigation
management (operation and maintenance) transfer (IMT) to users, with the Bank's
persuasion and assistance (paras 1.9-1.11). IMT is actually participatory privatization of
irrigation management (PPIM), involving transfer of this responsibility from government
to participatory WUOs. The WUOs operate on the principle of participatory irrigation
management and provide for a high degree of farmer involvement, both directly and
through elected representatives. The WUOs consist primarily of farmers and encompass
such structures as Water User Associations (WUAs), municipalities, village authorities
with responsibility for irrigation management, cooperatives, and others who have
responsibility for managing smaller irrigation schemes (see annex I for details). The most
important category is the WUA, accounting for 93% of the area managed by WUOs. Due
to various local conditions, the size of WUOs varies between 100 and 3 8,000 ha. As
discussed below, WUOs are playing a major role in the Turkish irrigation sector.
1.3  Irrigation Sector Issues. The Bank's study and review of the irrigation sector in
1992 and 1993 revealed that the principal problems in the irrigation sector were (a)
unsatisfactory operation and maintenance (O&M) services due mainly to inadequate
government funding, and (b) highly inefficient irrigation investment.



- 2 -
B. O&M PROBLEMS
1.4 Inadequate and declining public funding for O&M of the DSI managed area, whieh
was particularly affecting irrigation systems maintenance and causing its deterioration,
was a major problem and was threatening sustainable use of the multi-billion dollar
public investment in irrigation. Low and declining recovery of O&M costs from users
was also a problem.
1.5 Billing of O&M Costs. DSI operates on an accruals-based cost accounting system,
which forms the basis for calculating water usage charges for O&M. Actual O&M bills
are presented to users during the next crop year, with repayments due the following year,
causing a two-year delay. There is no inflation correction in the billings, so this two-year
delay in repayments causes considerable erosion in the real value of funds returned,
particularly in Turkey's highly inflationary environment. Cost recovery rates could
deteriorate further since the Council of Ministers may recommend politically motivated
reductions of up to 50% in the total amounts billed to users.
1.6 Recovery of DSI O&M Costs. DSI's average recovery rate is 40% on
accumulated outstanding repayments. Inflation's effect on the real value of repayments
translates to less than 20% of the actual costs incurred by DSI to provide O&M service.
If the billing's total is reduced by the government's decision, the value of recovery may
fall well below 15%. For delinquent payments, there is a one-time penalty of 10% of the
unpaid balance. This is a significant disincentive for users to pay on time since funds for
any outstanding payment can bear substantial interest in excess of 70%. Additionally,
water charges are calculated by DSI but are collected by the Ministry of Finance, so DSI
has no incentive to collect payments.
C. IRRIGATION INVESTMENT PROBLEMS
1.7 Turkey's irrigation investment problems consist of: (i) negligible cost recovery
against an annual investment cost of several hundred million dollars, as described below;
(ii) overextension of irrigation investment by including new schemes without adequate
funding; (iii) inclusion of uneconomic schemes in the program; and (iv) an extended
delay in the completion of schemes. This has resulted in poor utilization of funds which
are spread over far too many schemes simultaneously under construction by DSI. These
problems are exacerbated by lack of user participation in the planning, construction and
financing of the irrigation schemes. There is also deficiency in the method of design of
irrigation distribution canals.
1.8 Recovery of DSI Investment Costs. DSI charges annually an insignificant
amount of TL 3,000-7,500/ha, or US$0.03-0.08/ha, payable over a specified number of
years against an investment of around US$4,000/ha. Despite chronic inflation, these rates
have remained unchanged.



- 3 -
D. SOLUTIONS
1.9 In the past, the Bank's emphasis was on urging the government to improve
recovery of irrigation O&M and investment costs, which was covenanted in the legal
agreements of previous Bank-financed irrigation projects. This approach did not produce
any results, so in 1992 and 1993 the Bank explored' the possibility of a more practical
and sustainable solution of promoting IMT or PPIM. The possibility of irrigation
investment transfer (IIT) to users (WUOs) or participatory privatization of irrigation
investment (PPII) was also considered, but for the following reasons priority was given to
focusing on IMT, and under the circumstances it was considered premature to pursue IIT:
(a)   A Bank review in 1993 revealed that there were some enabling factors in the
country that could contribute to accelerated IMT to users, including: (i) the
availability of an enabling law; (ii) successful experiences with IMT for a
few small schemes to users who had established successful WUOs; (iii) the
support of some DSI officials for this concept; (iv) the existence of a
generally good working relationship between DSI O&M officials and
farmers (a relatively rare phenomenon); and (v) the well-founded
anticipation that the farmers would support such a transfer.
(b)   The highly positive experience of Mexico with large-scale transfer of
irrigation O&M responsibility to WVAOs in the early 1 990s contributed to
confidence-building among those concerned.
E. PROGRESS ON IMT AND RESULTS
1.10 In mid-1993, with the Bank's persuasions and assistance in connection with the
expanded scope of the its Drainage and On-Farm Development Project (Ln. 2663-TU),
and with the support of Turkish farmers, DSI started a large-scale, successful program of
IMT. Accordingly, management of about 1.2 M ha (about 75% of the area developed and
managed by DSI) was transferred to about 590 WlJOs. The Bank's assistance was
limited primarily to: (a) providing advice and encouragement and convening workshops
in connection with project supervision; and (b) financing study tours for key DSI officials
to the USA and Mexico to gain confidence in implementing a large-scale IMT. Annual
progress of the transfer is shown in Table 1.1.
1993 supervision reports, of Drainage and On-Farm Development Project (Ln 2663-TU) and
Irrigation Management and Investment Review (Report No. 11 589-TU).



-4 -
Table 1.1 Annual Progress on IMT
Year               Area Annually     Projected Area to be
Transferred (ha)    Transferred (ha)
1956-1992         63,000 (total)
1993                    9,000
1994                  195,000
1995                  711,000
1996                  222,000
1997                                         100,000
1998                                         80,000
1999                                         70,000
2000-2011                              50,000 ha/year
Source: DSI - O&M Department Presentation Report, April 1996, p. 26.
1.11 Main Results of IMT. Based on observations and user response, the following
results have been obtained:
(a)    Better operation of irrigation networks leading to a more timely and
equitable distribution of water, particularly in downstream and water-
short areas. Successful implementation of nighttime irrigation by WUOs
(which the government could not enforce), and keeping operators available
as needed day and night and during holidays are the main contributing
factors. The pumping stations now managed by WUOs, some of which are
fairly large and sophisticated, are performing better.
(b)   Substantially improved maintenance and protection of the systems (canals,
canalets, machinery and equipment). The availability of adequate funds,
simple and streamlined administrative procedures, transfer of
responsibility to users, and users' self-interest are among the main
contributing factors.
(c)   Increased efficiency in resource allocation (financial, labor, materials,
machinery and equipment, etc.).
(d)   A major and speedy shift in responsibility for financing irrigation
O&M cost from GOT to WUOs.
(e)   Increase in agriculturalproduction as reported by users.
(f)    The impressivefinancialperformance by WUOs in gaining recovery of
nearly 100% of member payments, accumulating savings and successfully
managing their budgets, which exceed US$ 1 M for large WUOs.
(g)   An improved understanding of irrigation issues by users (farmers).



- 5 -
(h)   Overall satisfaction of users, reflected by the receipt of about ten
complaints by DSI from users about irrigation problems in 1996, as
compared to about 400 complaints received before IMT.
The rate of success indicated above has brought Turkey to the forefront as a model (along
with Mexico) for large-scale IMT.
F. NEED FOR STRENGTHENING IMT
1.12 Despite the above success of IMT, the following issues still need to be addressed:
(a) the lack of O&M equipment by WUOs; and (b) a need to strengthen DSI so it would
successfully play a new role in its relationship with WUOs, providing technical support,
performance monitoring, and training to WUO staff. A brief description of item (a),
which requires more investment and is considered by WUOs to be the most urgent
problem, is given below, and item (b) is discussed in Chapters 3 and 4.
1.13 Urgent Need of WUOs for O&M Equipment. WUOs have, so far, been unable
to take over the entire O&M burden from DSI as they still depend on the agency for
O&M equipment and use it on an ad hoc basis with little or no charge. Considering the
status of DSI equipment, which is operating under unfavorable government procedures,
continuation of this arrangement is uneconomical for the government and inefficient for
WUOs. It also adversely affects the self-reliance and sustainable performance of WUOs.
Since the inception of large-scale IMT in 1993, WlOs have expressed demand for such
equipment (see para 3.4), which will enable them to avoid deferring maintenance and
catch up with past deferred maintenance. This would avoid, to a large extent, the need for
heavy investment in rehabilitating those parts of irrigation systems that would deteriorate
as a result of deferred maintenance. In Mexico, the only other country where large-scale
IMT has taken place, O&M equipment was transferred along with IMT to WUOs free of
charge. (Mexico's WUOs are now contributing to the financing of equipment.) Through
the Bank's persuasion Turkey's WUOs have shown preparedness to pay for a large
portion of O&M equipment cost, which should ease the burden on the government, and to
introduce PPII.
G. PROJECT CONCEPT
1.14 Strengthening of IMT and Introducing IIT. The project concept is based on
strengthening IMT and introducing IIT to meet project objectives as stated in para 3.1.
Assisting WUOs with the purchase of urgently needed O&M equipment and providing
training assistance for their staff will enhance their technical, managerial and financial
capability and contribute to the sustainability of IMT and privatized irrigation
management. The O&M equipment for WUO managed areas, which requires an ultimate
investment of about US$110 M, would be about 70% financed by WUOs (see Chapter 3).
This would also be a considerable step toward introducing the concept of transferring the
responsibility for financing investment on irrigation-related matters from the government
to users. Additionally, to introduce the concept of user-financing for irrigation schemes,
there is a provision for the inclusion of one primarily user-financed pilot irrigation



- 6 -
scheme (paras 2.5 and 3.9) to install a drip irrigation (partly micro-sprinkler) system.
Another important concept introduced in the proposed project is transferring the
responsibility for implementation of irrigation schemes or projects from the government
to users. Therefore, the project is aiming at: (i) consolidating IMT or privatized
irrigation management and making it sustainable; and (ii) introducing IIT, which also
includes responsibility for implementation (in addition to financing about 70% of the
cost, WUOs will have the responsibility of purchasing the equipment).
1.15 Rationale for Bank Involvement. The proposed project is consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) approved on September 4, 1997. The new CAS supports efforts to
promote privatization of irrigation. The Bank played an important role in encouraging DSI to
initiate a large-scale irrigation management transfer in 1993, which made major progress. The
project objectives related to the above concept are more likely to be achieved with Bank
involvement.
2. THE PROJECT AREA
A. PROJECT AREA RELATED To O&M EQUIPMENT
2.1  Assisting WUOs in the purchase of O&M equipment (paras 3.3-3.4) is the main
component of the project. This component is envisaged for all WUOs to whom
management responsibility for DSI-developed and managed irrigation schemes (para 1.2)
has been or will be transferred. These schemes are located in different parts of the
country and belong to one of the two irrigation zones -- coastal and interior.
2.2 Geographical Distribution of Existing Transferred Schemes. The coastal zone
of the country comprises the four DSI regions of Izmir, Adana, Antalya and Aydin,
covering 542,000 ha, or around 45% of about 1.2 M ha of irrigation land already
transferred to the WUOs. The interior zone consists of the remaining 21 DSI regions
covering some 660,000 ha, or 55% of the transferred areas.
2.3 Total Project Area. The forecasted cumulative areas of 1.5 M ha of the
transferred schemes to be served by the project are shown in Table 2.1. These figures
were obtained by extrapolating DSI data.



-7-
Table 2.1 Distribution of Area of Transferred Schemes to be Covered
Under the Project (ha)
Type of Scheme         Interior      Coastal         Total         Percent
Gravity, over 1,000 ha     616,000       648,000       1,264,000         84
Gravity, less than 1,000    87,000         16,000       103,000           7
ha__                                                    _ _ _ _ _
Pumping, with a head        71,000        29,000        100,000           7
below 30m m__
Pumping, with a head         2,600        21,000         23,600           2
between 30-60 m                                      _
Pumping, with a head         7,300             0          7,300           0
over 60 m
Total                   783,900        714,000      1,497,900        100
2.4 The distribution of WUOs in terms of type and size is given in the table below.
Table 2.2 Distribution of WUOs by Area and Type (ha)
Type of WUO      Area Range       No.    Total Area Covered
WUA              below 1,000        41          15,239
1,000 - 5,001     110         295,187
5,001 - 10,001      51          375,876
10,001 -       23         324,792
20,001         3          81,904
above 20,001
Village          below 1,000       209          30,439
1,000 - 5,001       1            1,165
Municipality     below 1,000       112          31,725
1,000 - 5,001      12           19,857
Cooperative      below 1,000        23           8,043
1,000 - 5,001       2            5,150
University       below 1,000         3             957
Total                            590        1,190,334
B. PROJECT AREA OF PILOT DRIP IRRIGATION SCHEME
2.5 Pilot Drip Irrigation Scheme (PDIS). The proposed scheme is located in the
Uluborlu municipality of Isparta region and was completed in 1984. The dam serves a
designed irrigation area of 1,600 ha via a concrete-lined main canal of 7 km with a
capacity of 1.5 m3/s. The source of water for the dam and irrigation of the area is a local
stream that is not part of an international river. The right river bank is served by a low
pressure pipeline and the left bank by an open concrete lined canal. Currently about



- 8 -
1,200 ha are irrigated with inadequate water. A third of the irrigated area is under
cherries and two thirds under apples, some of which is intercropped with young cherry
trees. Tomato production is common as a mixed crop together with young cherry trees
until these trees reach productive age. The trend is to convert the whole scheme to cherry
production, which has a high return from export to Europe.
2.6 Water Resources at the PDIS. In the PDIS, water shortage is a serious problem
and only two-thirds of the potentially irrigable area is irrigated. Installing a drip
irrigation system would contribute to significantly more efficient use of the existing
scarce water resources, and allow the 1,200 ha area to be converted to the highly lucrative
cherry crop.
3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1  The main project objectives are to:
(a)   strengthen irrigation-related institutions by supporting: (i) DSI and GDRS
in providing guidance and technical support to WUOs; and (ii) WUOs in
fulfilling their responsibility for irrigation management and investment
(including the purchase of O&M equipment and improving irrigation
systems) in an efficient and sustainable manner;
(b)   relieve the public sector of its traditional responsibility for funding and
subsidizing the cost of irrigation O&M;
(c)   initiate a process of reducing public sector responsibility for funding and
managing irrigation investment; and
(d)   promote efficient and sustainable utilization of irrigation systems which
would contribute to improved agricultural productivity.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND COMPONENTS
3.2 The project has been appraised for completion of the following three components
of: O&M equipment; institutional strengthening; and a pilot drip irrigation scheme
with estimated total cost of US$122.2 M (requiring a US$37.5 M loan), for which cost
details are given in Annex K. To avoid a large undisbursed balance with respect to the
large component of purchase of O&M equipment by WUOs (costing US$108 M,
including the loan part of US$29.7 M), it was decided to split the funding of this
component into two parts. Accordingly, the proposed loan in the amount of US$20 M
would cover the institutional strengthening and pilot irrigation scheme components and
the part of the purchase of O&M equipment needed in the first two years of the project,
with an allocation of US$12.4 M (out of the above US$20 M). A summary of project



-9 -
costs and th'e splitting of the O&M equipment component into two parts is shown in the
table below. The Bank intends to finance the remaining cost of O&M equipment to be
purchased during the last three years of the project, based on this appraisal, with a loan
amount of US$17.5 M (see Annex L), subject to disbursement of 70% of the above
allocation of US$12.4 M.
Summary of Project Costs (US$ M)
With Proposed Loan   With Envisaged Loan  With Total Combined
Component          of US$20 M       of US$17.5 M    Loan of US$37.5 M
Total Cost   Loan   Total Cost  Loan   Total Cost  Loan
O&M Equipment          45.0     12.4     63.6    17.5    108.6      29.9
Institutional Strengthening  6.9  5.6     0.0     0.0      6.9       5.6
Pilot Drip Irrigation Scheme    6.9  2.0  0.0     0.0       6.9      2.0
Total                  58.8     20.0     63.6    17.5    122.4      37.5
While the concepts and implementation arrangements stated in this report apply to both,
the proposed and the envisaged follow-up loan, figures in the remaining part of Chapter 3
and in Chapter 4 apply mainly to the part of the project based on the proposed US$20 M
loan. The project would be implemented in five years. Following is a brief description
of components.
Component 1: O&M Equipment (Base Cost US$44.01 M2)
3.3 The project would assist about 750 WVUOs covering about 1.5 M ha to purchase
urgently needed irrigation O&M equipment. This number includes about 160 new
WUOs covering about 300,000 ha that will be established as part of the IMT program.
The major part of the cost of equipment (tables 3.2-3.3) would be financed by WJUOs,
and the balance would be granted by government utilizing the Bank loan. Operations
equipment includes wireless sets, motorcycles, vehicles and computers. The maintenance
equipment includes cranes, winches and small backhoes/loaders (all mainly tractor-
mounted), trucks, pickups, gradalls (truck-mounted machines with telescopic boom and
wide bucket, primarily used for desilting canals and drains and removing weeds), graders,
bulldozers, excavators and draglines.
3.4 The type of equipment and number of units to be purchased during the project
period is listed in Annex A. The type and quantity of the above equipment was
determined on the basis of WUOs' demand, verified in their written response to a
questionnaire prepared and distributed to many WUOs by the project preparation team.
The questionnaire asked them to state their need for O&M equipment and develop a
purchase plan based on their priorities and financial ability to pay in cash for the major
part of its cost. They were informed that the balance of less than 30% on average is
2   As discussed in para 3.2, the remaining part with estimated base cost of $63.6 million (see Annex L)
is envisaged to be financed under a follow-up loan of $17.5 million.



- 10-
envisaged to be provided as a government grant, financed by the proposed Bank loan. A
streamlined procedure for disbursing the grant to the suppliers, soon after a WUO has
paid its share, is described in Chapter 4.
Component 2: Institutional Strengthening (Base Cost US$6.50 M)
3.5 This component would provide for: (a) consultants who would consist of two main
categories of (i) a small group of long-term consultants, and (ii) short-term individual
consultants or teams of consultants for completing specific tasks; (b) training and study
tours; and (c) computers, office and training equipment, and vehicles. The recruitment of
consultants would be subject to the Bank's approval of terms of reference (TOR) and
qualifications. Preliminary TOR for consultants are given in Annex D.
3.6 Project Consultants. The long-term consultants (LTCs), comprising a team
leader, assistant team leader and support staff, would be recruited to facilitate project
implementation and coordination, particularly with respect to facilitating the procurement
of O&M equipment and the drip irrigation system by WUOs. This team will also have
responsibility for assisting in the recruitment of short-term consultants for specific tasks,
and for coordinating and supervising preparation of a possible future project(s). To
maintain direct and effective contact with participating WUOs and facilitate coordination
between WUOs and concerned officials of DSI and GDRS, the team leader and assistant
team leader would be locally recruited, with qualifications and TOR acceptable to the
Bank. The LTCs would be assisted by short-term foreign and local consultants and
support staff. Individual consultants or teams of consultants would be recruited to
complete the tasks shown in the implementation schedule (Annex E). Their duties will
include:
(a)   supervision of PDIS;
(b)   training and institutional strengthening concerning DSI, GDRS and WUOs
in the project-related areas;
(c)   assisting DSI with establishing a Decision Support System concerning
geographical information system, management information system, and
determination of snow quantities in the mountains to forecast irrigation
water availability and other matters related to irrigation and water;
(d)   resuming annual assessment of DSI irrigation schemes and transferring
this capability to DSI staff. (This activity had started in connection with
the Irrigation Master Plan for Turkey under Ln. 2663-TU, but was
abandoned after loan closing.);
(e)   proposing arrangements for and promoting appropriate transfer of
responsibility for the O&M of drains and the remaining O&M of canals to
WUOs;



(f)   assisting DSI and specifically WUOs with the selection of appropriate
equipment for maintenance of drains and large canals;
(g)   selecting schemes for subsurface and surface drains installation,
rehabilitation, and improvement, based on WMOs' demand and their
commitment to share a reasonable part of the investment cost, and
preparing or finalizing designs for such schemes; and
(h)   selecting schemes for irrigation development, rehabilitation, and
improvement, based on WUOs' demand and commitment to pay the
major share of the investment cost, and preparing or finalizing designs
for such schemes.
Consultant payment will be linked to successful completion of specific tasks or subtasks.
3.7 Training and Task-Related Study Tours. The project would provide training to
concerned staff of DSI, GDRS and WUO in:
(a)   improving utilization of water in irrigation systems and in the basin;
(b)   improving irrigation distribution systems and increasing their efficiency;
(c)   enhancing DSI capability in effective and timely monitoring and
evaluation of irrigation systems; and
(d)   assisting WUOs to enhance their capability in technical and managerial
fields, including accounting, and providing training to the DSI and GDRS
staff in related fields, including English language training.
The participants would be trained mainly through workshops, participation in completion
of consultant tasks (para 3.6), and attending classes and seminars as appropriate for each
case. The project would provide for some study tours, which would be closely linked to
specific tasks and achievements. English language training courses for DSI staff will also
be conducted.
3.8 Computers, Office Equipment, and Vehicles. The project would finance the cost
of computerizing the O&M department of DSI; training, and office equipment; and one
field vehicle for O&M service in each region. Procurement of some computer hardware
and software is also envisaged in connection with DSI-related Decision Support System
and for GDRS, and it would be supported by an intensive and timely training program.
This program would enhance the knowledge of staff who are already computer-literate
and familiarize the remaining staff with computer use.
Component 3: Pilot Drip Irrigation Scheme (Base Cost US$6.05 M)
3.9 The project would assist Uluborlu WUO in purchasing and installing a drip
irrigation system for 1,200 ha. The WUO would finance a major part (about 70% ) of the
cost. The balance would be paid from a grant financed by the Bank (paras 3.15-17). The



- 12-
PDIS was selected from among five schemes on the basis of its WUO's preparedness to
finance the above-mentioned percentage of the cost, and its high economic rate of return.
Information on the pilot scheme is summarized in Table 3.1. Additional information is
contained in Annex B.
3.10 The proposed drip irrigation system will receive water from the Uluborlu small
dam (with storage capacity of 21 M cubic meters) through the installation of a pipeline
system -- 5,200 meters on the left bank and 1,100 meters on the right bank. This system
of pipes will provide enough pressure for drip irrigation and eliminate the need for
electricity for pumps to create pressure. The pipeline will serve hydrants at each farm
parcel. Farmers would attach portable drip systems to the hydrants. Service would be on
a 24-hour basis involving 12-hour rotations at the tertiary level. Some cost savings may
be possible at the detailed design stage following further dialogue with the WUO.
Table 3.1 Summary of Primarily User-Financed Pilot Irrigation Scheme
Description                   Amount
Envisaged Change in Crops     Expand/shift to cherry production
Base Cost US$M a                         6.0
Total Cost US$ Ma                        6.9
ERR                                      19%
FRR                                     24%
Proposed WUO Financing                  70%
Bank Financing (US$ M)                   2.0
WUO Response to such Financing       Highly positive
Number of Subscribers                 About 2,000
Planned Drip Irrigation Area (ha)       1,200 b
a. Including the cost of main pressure pipe, accounting for about 55%.
b. Based on average release of 8.5 M cubic meters of water from the dam.
C. DESIGN FEATURES OF THE PROJECT
3.11 Some of the special features in the design of this project that involve innovative and
non-traditional approaches are:
(a)   In sharp contrast with the almost completely subsidized public irrigation
investment and O&M services in the country, WUOs would finance a
substantial part of the costs involved. This would cover about 70% (on
average) of the cost of O&M equipment and the pilot scheme. WUOs
would have complete responsibility for operating and maintaining the
equipment and the pilot scheme, and for making replacements.
(b)   The balance of the cost of O&M equipment and drip/sprinkler systems
would be granted by the Government using the Bank loan (para 3.18). This



- 13 -
method of providing transparent grant assistance was found to be the most
effective as it: (i) encourages the WUOs to bear the major part of the cost of
investment (purchasing the O&M equipment and drip irrigation system) and
thus promoting privatization of irrigation investment; and (ii) substantially
reduces the burden on the State for financing such developments, as it
involves the least amount of subsidy compared to the current alternative of
nearly 100% subsidized irrigation investment by the government (which
takes place through DSI and GDRS). It also involves less subsidy compared
to financing through the Agricultural Bank, which involves about a 50%
subsidy and has an adverse effect on the financial system. The proposed
grant for the O&M equipment involves limited public financing per hectare
(about US$20), but with significant impact on meeting users' needs.
(c)   Project implementation is proposed on the basis of streamlined
arrangements with minimum bureaucratic involvement. The responsibility
for procurement of equipment and works would rest with the WUOs because
of their financing of the major part of the cost and their interest in
procurement with least delay.
(d)   This is a demand-driven project, which evolved on the basis of users'
demand to respond to their urgent requirements.
(e)   The assistance for the purchase of O&M equipment would be available to all
WUOs able to finance their share of the cost (there are no other eligibility
criteria).
(f)    The project does not involve any increase in the creation of governmental
posts.
D. PROJECT COSTS
3.12 The estimated project cost is about US$58.78 M and is summarized in the
following table:
Table 3.2 Estimated Project Costs (US$ M)
% Foreign   % Total
Component            Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange  Base Cost
1. O&M Equipment               11.00    33.01    44.01      75         78
2. Institutional Strengthening  3.43     3.07      6.50     47         11
3. Pilot Drip Irrigation Scheme  4.88    1.17      6.05     19         11
Base Costs                  19.31    37.25     56.56      66       100
Physical Contingencies          0.55     0.19      0.72     26
Price Contingencies             0.58     0.90      1.50     72          3
Total Project Costs         20.44    38.34     58.78      65        104



- 14-
3.13 These estimates are based on July 1996 prices, with the addition of taxes and
physical and price contingencies. The foreign exchange part is estimated at about
US$38.2 M, or about 65% of total project cost. No physical contingencies were included
for the equipment, while 10% physical contingencies were allowed for the construction of
the pilot (drip) irrigation scheme. Due to high inflation in Turkey, all costs are expressed
in US dollars, on which a 2.2% annual inflation rate was assumed throughout the project
life. Physical and price contingencies comprise 3.8% of the project base cost. Import
duties and value added taxes amount to about 20.4% of the base cost. Project cost details
are presented in Annex A.
3.14 A list of the O&M equipment showing the type, quantity and unit cost is given in
Annex A. The estimate of the total quantity of equipment (see Annex K) is based on a
total transferred area of 1.8 M ha including some 1.2 M ha already transferred to the
WUOs, and an additional 600,000 ha expected to be transferred by the fifth year of the
project. However, actual WU0 participation is expected on around 85% of the area, or
1.5 M ha. Investigations during the preparation phase (August 1996) revealed that the
WUOs had already procured about a third of their equipment needs. Hence the project
will target about 85% of the area managed by WUOs with 70% coverage of the total
equipment requirements. Thus the estimate for the cost of outstanding needs is
approximately US$108 M, around US$72 per hectare (based on the full cost of O&M
equipment component). The area-based estimate for equipment assumes the sharing of
equipment between adjacent WUOs, resulting in cost savings.
E. PHASED FINANCING OF THE PROJECT
3.15 The main sources of finance are the WUOs and the government grant financed by
the Bank loan. The proposed loan of US$20 M equivalent would finance 42.3 % of the
total cost net of taxes. The proposed loan would cover 52.2% of foreign exchange costs.
3.16 No public counterpart contribution (beyond the above US$20 M plus the envisaged
loan of US$17.5 M) would be needed for the O&M equipment and pilot irrigation
components, and no additional public funding would be needed for component 2, with the
exception of funds to pay the necessary taxes amounting to US$1.3 M. The grant portion
of the cost of equipment would be directly channeled to suppliers through a designated
local bank according to arrangements described in Chapter 4.
3.17 To avoid a large undisbursed balance with respect to the O&M equipment
component, financing of this component was split into two parts as discussed in para 3.2.
The proposed Bank financing of US$20 M is planned to be disbursed over the five-year
project period. The envisaged follow-up loan of US$17.5 M is expected to be disbursed
in the third, fourth and fifth years of the project.



- 15 -
Table 3.3 Project Financing (US$ M)
Item            Base    Total   WUOs  From Govt. Bank Loan
Cost    Cost             Budget   to Govt.
O&M Equipment            44.01    44.99    32.62    0.00      12.37a
Institutional Strengthening  6.50  6.94              1.34      5.60
Pilot Irrigation Scheme   6.05     6.85    4.83     0.00       2.03a
Total                  56.56    58.78    37.45    1.34      20.00
Contingencies             2.22
a. Bank loan to Government to be used as grant for financing a smaller part of the cost.
F. THE PROPOSED GRANT
3.18 Various possibilities for assisting WUOs in purchasing O&M equipment were
examined and the following arrangement was found to be the most practical and efficient
under present conditions. About 70% (on average) of the cost of equipment will be paid
by WUOs, using savings from their revenues. The remaining part of the cost (about 30%
on average) will be a one-time-only grant for this purpose by the government to serve as a
catalyst for promoting such self-financing. The WUOs will have the responsibility for
operating, maintaining and replacing such equipment entirely from their own revenues.
The proposed World Bank loan would finance the above grant under the standard terms
for Bank loans. This type of financing, involving the provision of a government grant to
stimulate equity contributions to investments, was used successfully in Turkey between
1985 and 1995 and was found to be highly expedient and practical in promoting
agricultural investments in the country. The grant portion in this specific government
experience ranged from 25% to 30% of the investment cost.
3.19 The percentage of grant financing for equipment in the two project zones will be
specified in two standard participation agreements satisfactory to the Bank, one for each
zone, to be signed by DSI and WUOs. Considering the higher productivity and net return
in the coastal zone, the average aggregated grant-financing percentage for the coastal
zone is about 20% and for the inland zone about 30%. The basis for proposing the
percentage of grant financing was to use the lowest percentage that will be attractive to
users. In each zone, the percentage varies for each category of equipment (higher for
larger and more specialized equipment and lower for lighter equipment and vehicles),
mode of use (higher for shared equipment and lower for sole use), and type of irrigation
(higher for pumping scheme and lower for gravity irrigation). Uluborlu WUO has agreed
to pay on average 70% of the combined cost of works and drip irrigation pipes.
Therefore the grant would cover 30% of the combined costs of the above works and drip
irrigation pipes, and 100% of consultant costs exclusive of taxes. However, to assist the
WUO during the initial period of heavy investment and no return, the percentage of the



- 16-
grant for the works (installation and equipment for the pipeline and main network) will be
about 40% and for drip pipes about 16%.
G. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND ASPECTS
3.20 The field-based environmental review of the project indicates that the project would
have a positive impact on the environment. The project's main component involves
assistance to WUOs toward obtaining new O&M equipment which would run more
efficiently, and thus consume less fuel and produce less pollution. These machines would
facilitate efficient operation and maintenance of irrigation systems, contributing to more
efficient use of irrigation water which is scarce in some areas, and reducing the
possibility of serious problems with waterlogging and salinization. The pilot drip
irrigation component would replace the current inefficient irrigation distribution system
with a drip irrigation network which would alleviate water shortages by substantially
increasing efficiency of conveyance and delivery of water to the plant. The drip irrigation
system would also contribute to reducing the possibility of waterlogging and salinization.
To avoid the possible (but limited) adverse impacts of construction of the pilot scheme,
preventive measures will be taken that will require contractors to provide site
stabilization, collection of construction wastes, and use procedures to ensure
environmental protection and the safety and health of workers. The project has
provisions for drip irrigation training in connection with the above pilot drip irrigation
project. The training program would use or prepare a training manual which would cover
related environmental considerations, particularly with respect to proper use of fertilizers.
The proposed project would not involve involuntary resettlement and is not anticipated to
have an impact on known archaeological or historical sites in any of the sub-project areas.
3.21 It is difficult to evaluate the environmental impacts of the project on a time and
money basis. Conversion to drip irrigation would contribute to use of correct amounts of
fertilizers, which would be applied through drip systems, avoiding waste that would
otherwise pollute downstream drainage systems. Controlled application of water through
drip irrigation systems is expected to reduce the growth of unwanted plants and thus the
need for chemicals. Because of the scarcity of water in the pilot area, the negative impact
of reducing seepage to groundwater would be negligible.
H. PARTICIPATION AND WOMEN'S ROLE
3.22 Participation. The design of the project is based on a participatory approach.
From the inception, the main stakeholders, i.e., concerned DSI and GDRS central and
regional staff and particularly WUOs, have participated in project preparation. They
were involved in the field reviews and in a study conducted to assess the needs of users
for O&M equipment. The study covered 160 representative WUOs out of about 590, and
included a questionnaire about needed O&M equipment, and their ability and readiness to
pay for a major part of the cost.
3.23 To promote ownership, enhance the role of WUOs, and contribute to successful
completion of the project, the responsibility for purchasing the O&M equipment is



-17-
transferred to users. Thus the main implementing agency is the WUO. Nevertheless,
government agencies (DSI and GDRS) would have an important supporting role in
providing required advice and supervision, and in channeling the grant funds to the
suppliers/contractors from whom WUOs would purchase equipment or works (in the case
of the PDIS).
3.24 Women's Role in the Project. The newly developed WUOs have shown
encouraging progress on participation of women in managing the WUOs. Women are
working in almost all WUOs in various numbers and their positions in WUOs include
manager (titled General Secretary), accountant, computer specialist, and secretary.
Female farmers participate in and are aware of the importance of WUOs. The level of
participation is roughly proportional to the size of holding. Some female farmers show a
keen interest in having more active participation in the next WUO assembly election.
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITY
4.1  The following organizations or institutions will have primary responsibility for
project implementation:
(a)   WUOs, assisted by consultants and supported by DSI, for the O&M
equipment component;
(b)   Uluborlu WUO, assisted by consultants and supported by GDRS, for the
PDIS component; and
(c)   concerned departments of DSI and GDRS with assistance from the project
coordination unit and consultants, for the institutional strengthening
component.
4.2 Key Persons with Responsibility for Implementation. The following would
have major responsibility for implementing the project: (a) for WUOs, elected
chairpersons who are responsible to their assemblies; (b) for DSI, one of the Deputy
Directors General (as DSI Coordinator), Regional Heads of O&M (as DSI Regional
Coordinators -- DSI RCs) on behalf of Regional Directors, and Heads of O&M and other
relevant departments having technical responsibility for implementing related parts of
institutional strengthening; (c) for GDRS, the Head of River Basin Development and
Earth Dams Department (GDRS Coordinator), and one GDRS field engineer, with
qualifications and TOR acceptable to the Bank (GDRS Regional Coordinator -- GDRS
RC); and (d) Consultant Coordinator, discussed below, with responsibility for the PCU.
4.3 Since the project's main components of procurement of O&M equipment and
procurement of works and drip irrigation pipes for the Uluborlu Pilot Scheme will be
implemented by WUOs, it is not necessary to establish a project implementation unit



- 18-
(PIU). However, to contribute to the satisfactory implementation of the project, the
establishment of a PCU, discussed below, is envisaged.
B. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
4.4 Procurement of O&M Equipment. Based on the need and availability of funds to
pay for their share of the cost, WUOs would purchase the O&M equipment from a pre-
approved list. A list of WUOs' requests for O&M equipment to be purchased during the
project would be updated and approved for WUOs by DSI RCs within 30 days of loan
signing. This list would form the basis for an agreement, with a standard format, between
DSI and each WUO, stating the main arrangements for procurement of equipment,
payment of grant, and commitment of both sides. The form of agreement would be
subject to Bank approval. The standard agreement would contain the list of percentages
of the grant applicable to each type of equipment in inland and coastal zones. To procure
the equipment and pay for the grant portion of the cost, the following actions would be
taken:
(a)   WUOs would:
(i)   obtain quotations (as described in the procurement section below)
for required equipment, select the supplier with the lowest
responsive quotation and, before award, obtain RC's endorsement
that the WUO procurement decision is consistent with procurement
procedures;
(ii)  procure the equipment, pay their share of the cost to the supplier
(about 70% on average, to be specified for various equipment in
the agreement mentioned in para. 4.4), and present certification of
payment to the supplier, to DSI RC for endorsement that the WUO
has paid its share of the cost;
(iii) send their grant applications to Consultant Coordinator to be
endorsed by Consultant Coordinator and DSI coordinator or
his/her alternate to be forwarded by CC to the agent bank
(described below) for payment to the suppliers. The above
quotations and receipt, previously endorsed by RC, would be
attached to the application; and
(iv)  upon certification of payment to the supplier from the agent bank,
obtain the equipment and use it for O&M purposes under the
general supervision of RC, and not resell it within five years.
(b)   The DSI Regional Coordinator would promptly certify the two matters
mentioned under (a) (ii) and (iii) above. If RC finds a deficiency in this
respect, he would advise the WJUO without delay to correct the matter and
return it for certification. The DSI RC would monitor the purchased



-19-
equipment to ensure that the equipment is properly used for the intended
O&M purpose and not resold within five years.
(c)   The Consultant Coordinator would forward the WUO's application to
the bank within five business days of its receipt. The PCU staff
responsible for procurement and disbursement would file the documents in
an orderly manner and enter the required information in a computerized
database to facilitate tracking of grant funds and preparation and handling
of applications for replenishment of the special account and the project
account by PCU. Such applications would be signed by DSI Coordinator
or his/her alternate.
(d)   The Agent Bank (where a project account is opened by the government)
would pay the supplier within four business days, upon receipt of WUO's
application endorsed by CC and DSI coordinator or his/her alternate.
Signatures of the CC and DSI coordinator or his/her alternate would be
supplied to the Agent Bank.
4.5 Considering the current extended delays in procurement by government agencies
and the large quantity of proposed procurement of O&M equipment for several hundred
WUOs spread all over the country, there was some concern that this task might not be
achieved in a timely manner. To address this concern, the above decentralized
arrangement for procurement of equipment by WUOs, who urgently need it, is envisaged.
4.6 Procurement of Works and Drip Irrigation Pipes for the PDIS Component. In
principle, the above arrangements for procurement of O&M equipment would apply, as
described below:
(a)   For works, the WJUO would:
(i)   with the assistance of supervision consultant and general
supervision of GDRS RC, invite bids and award contracts
according to procurement procedures discussed in Chapter 4;
(ii)  pay contractors their share (60%) of contractors' bills for advance
payments and payments against completion of works in stages
according to the terms of contract, and send application(s)
endorsed by CC and GDRS Coordinator or his/her alternate to the
agent bank through CC for payment to the contractors of the
balance (40%). Such applications prior to being sent to PCU,
would be subject to the endorsement of the supervision consultant
and GDRS RC.
For drip irrigation pipe, members of WUOs would:
(iii)  obtain quotations (as described in the procurement section below),
select the supplier with the lowest responsive quotation and, before



- 20 -
award, obtain GDRS RC's endorsement that the procurement
decision is consistent with the project procurement procedure;
(iv)  procure the pipe, pay their share of the cost (84%) to the supplier,
and present the supplier's receipt of payment to RC for
endorsement that the WUO member has paid its share of the cost;
(v)   send their applications to the consultant coordinator and GDRS
coordinator or his/her alternate for endorsement and to be
forwarded by CC to the Agent Bank, described above, for prompt
payment of the balance (16%) to the supplier. The above
quotations and receipt, endorsed by RC, would be attached to the
application; and
(vi)  upon receipt of payment by the supplier from the bank, obtain the
drip irrigation pipe, use it, and not resell it for five years.
(b)   The GDRS Regional Coordinator would promptly certify the two
matters mentioned under (a) (ii), (iii) and (iv) above. If RC finds a
deficiency in this respect, he/she would advise the WUO without delay to
correct the matter and return it for certification. DSI RC would monitor
the completion of works and the utilization of drip pipe to ensure
successful implementation of the schemes and that the members do not
resell the drip pipe within five years.
(c)   The Consultant Coordinator would forward the WlUO's and its
members' applications to the Agent Bank within a time period as defined
in the Participation Agreement. The PCU staff responsible for
procurement and disbursement would file the documents in an orderly
manner and enter the required information in a computerized database to
facilitate tracking of grant funds.
(d)   The Agent Bank would pay the contractors and suppliers within four
business days, upon receipt of WUO's application endorsed by CC and
GDRS coordinator or his/her alternate. Signatures of CC and GDRS
Coordinator would be supplied to the Agent Bank.
4.7 Implementation of Institutional Strengthening Component. The following
actions would be taken for recruiting consultants, completing training tasks, and
procuring computers, office equipment and vehicles.
(a)   Employment of Consultants:
(i)   DSI and GDRS would recruit consultants following Bank
Guidelines, "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" (Jan. 1997), whose TOR and qualifications
would be acceptable to the Bank. The DSI Coordinator, in



-21 -
consultation with the GDRS Coordinator, would initiate
recruitment of the CC (whose qualification is critical to the success
of the project), and complete it with urgency. With the assistance
of CC, DSI would recruit assistants to CC and support staff
expeditiously, taking into consideration the GDRS Coordinator's
views.
(ii)   With the assistance of CC, GDRS will recruit consultants for
supervision of PDIS in close consultation with the Uluborlu WUO.
(iii)  Other consultants, including trainers, would be recruited by the
PCU in close cooperation with concemed departments, who will
jointly prepare satisfactory TOR for each task. With respect to
studies in connection with schemes to be considered under the next
phase project, they will give attention to the following issues: (1)
difficulty in finding consultants with experience in large-scale
successful transfer of irrigation management; (2) different levels of
preparedness of various WUOs to finance their part of the
investment and engineering costs, and determination of which is an
important part of the selection of schemes for investment; and (3)
finding satisfactory arrangement for paying consultants on the
basis of successful completion of specific subtasks (such as
schemes that lead to financial participation of individual or groups
of WUOs). In view of these issues, they will consider completing
some initial or pilot study(ies).
(iv)  In preparation of TOR for selection of schemes for irrigation,
emphasis will be placed on introducing improved designs for
irrigation systems, particularly for canals.
(b)   Procurement of Computers, Office Equipment and Vehicles. The
PCU, in consultation with concerned departments of DSI and GDRS,
would prepare satisfactory and non-restrictive specifications, and the PCU
would procure them in accordance with the procurement arrangements
discussed below under the procurement section.
4.8 Familiarizing WUOs and Coordinators with Procurement Procedures. At the
beginning of the project, CC would make WUOs and the coordinators familiar with the
project procurement arrangements. With respect to O&M equipment, the focus would be
on advising the WUOs to avoid errors or omissions in obtaining the required quotations,
and selecting the lowest responsive offer to ensure prompt payment to the supplier. To
contribute to timely action on procurement by WUOs for PDIS, CC would familiarize the
GDRS Coordinator and RC and the consultants for detailed design3 and supervision, with
the more involved arrangements needed for NCB. The CC would also familiarize
3  Includes preparation of bill of quantities.



- 22 -
concerned officials of DSI and GDRS with the procedures and actions needed for
procurement of the institutional strengthening component.
C. PROJECT COORDINATION AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
4.9 Coordination. Project Coordination would be maintained by the PCU. The PCU
would comprise the DSI Coordinator, GDRS Coordinator and CC. The CC would be the
Secretary of the Committee, reporting to the DSI Coordinator on matters related to DSI,
and to the GDRS Coordinator on matters related to GDRS. Issues concerning both
agencies would be discussed and handled by all three members, but issues concerning
only DSI or GDRS would be handled between the coordinator concerned and CC.
Meetings for discussing and resolving issues could be called by the coordinators or CC.
However, the CC will have responsibility for discussing issues without delay for
corrective action with the concerned coordinator or both coordinators. The CC would be
the Secretary of the unit, and support staff would provide the required administrative
support. The PCU would have responsibility for record keeping and disbursement of all
three components, and for procurement of the institutional strengthening component. For
the O&M and PDIS components, WUOs will have responsibility for procurement.
4.10 Implementation Schedule. The project implementation schedule is contained in
Annex E, based on implementation of the project in a period of five years, from the fourth
quarter of 1997 through the third quarter of 2002. The schedule is based on a reasonable
speed of implementation considering the existing implementation rate of projects in
Turkey. With more serious efforts by the members of the PCU, particularly the CC, it
would be possible to advance the start and completion dates of project tasks.
4.11 Implementation and Mid-term Review. Considering the innovative nature of the
project, there is a need for implementing the project under close monitoring and
supervision by the PCU and the Bank to contribute to its successful completion. This
also requires that simplicity and flexibility be observed in project implementation to the
extent possible. While an attempt has been made during project preparation to use
simplified procedures, if during implementation it is identified that certain steps
envisaged now are not essential, urgent action should be initiated by the PCU or the Bank
to correct the problem. On the other hand, if certain arrangements are found to be lax,
prompt action would be initiated by the above for improvement. Such issues should be
raised in the monthly statements and quarterly progress reports to be issued by CC (see
para below on reporting) and in the Bank supervision reports. Also, a mid-term review
would take place around December 2000.
D. MONITORING AND REPORTING
4.12 Monitoring. The project coordination consultants would monitor progress on the
implementation of the project components and tasks. The results of such monitoring
would be regularly reflected in project coordination consultants' progress reports and
monthly statements. The project would strengthen DSI's capability to carry out
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of WUOs' performance in a timely and efficient



-23 -
manner. Special attention would be given to the monitoring of benefits of transfer,
including establishment of baselines. DSI and GDRS would also monitor
implementation progress and ensure project completion.
4.13 Reporting. Project consultants would submit brief monthly statements and
quarterly progress reports on progress, status and issues to concerned governmental
agencies and the Bank. The monthly statements would contain a summary of progress on
main activities and quarterly reports will contain details, including: (i) progress on
procurement of O&M equipment and completion of the Pilot Scheme; (ii) payments
made to suppliers and contractors; (iii) progress on technical assistance and training
activities; (iv) status of performance indicators and progress on M&E; and (v) problems
and proposed measures to overcome them. Project consultants would submit a work plan
for the project for the following year, along with an estimate of project-related
expenditures by October 31, and submit a Project Completion Report within six months
of project completion.
E. PROCUREMENT
4.14 The Bank's guidelines on "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
(January 1995) would be followed for project procurement. Since this is an innovative
project and the major part of the investment will be paid by WUOs, they will have
responsibility for implementing the investment part of the project (for details see
Chapters 3 and 4). The procurement methods considered for each component are:
(a)   O&M Equipment Component. The O&M equipment would be procured
by about 750 WUOs, who will pay for about 70% of the cost (on average).
Each WUO would buy the equipment according to its need and the
availability of funds, adhering to the arrangements described in Chapter 4.
In view of the ownership of individual WUOs, and that each will have a
different schedule for procurement of equipment, it is not efficient or
practical to combine the procurement for ICB. They will use national
shopping for equipment costing less than US$100,000 with an aggregate
cost of US$14 M, and international shopping for equipment costing
US$100,000 to US$400,000 with an aggregate cost of US$31 M. The
latter category accounts for about 70% of the total cost of O&M
equipment. It is unlikely that there will be any package for O&M
equipment under ICB.
(b)   PDIS. This is also a primarily user financed component. Works would be
procured by the Uluborlu WUO, which would pay 60% of the cost, under
NCB. Drip irrigation pipes would be procured by the members of WUO,
who would pay about 84% of the cost, using NS procedure for lots costing
less than $100,000.
(c)   Institutional Strengthening Component. To promote transfer of
irrigation O&M and investment responsibility from the Government to



- 24 -
WUOs, DSI and GDRS would recruit consultants and procure computers,
office equipment and vehicles through the PCU.
(i)   Consultants. Consultants as teams or individuals for short term
and special assignments would be recruited following Bank
Guidelines for "Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997. Coordinator
Consultant (CC) with TOR and qualifications acceptable to the
Bank will be recruited with urgency to ensure timely start of the
project. Since the project (and preparation of the next phase
project) is based on WJUOs' investment and full involvement, the
CC and Assistant CC should be selected among qualified local
consultants. They would be recruited on the basis of local
advertisement and comparison of qualification and experience for
the job. Other consultants would be recruited on the basis of
arrangements shown in the procurement plan, Annex F.
(ii)   Computers, Office Equipment and Vehicles. A package of
computers and office equipment with estimated cost of US$1.46 M
would be procured under ICB. For urgent and emerging needs,
packages of computers and office equipment costing less than
US$100,000 with a total cost of less than US$300,000 would be
procured under NS. The vehicles would be procured under ICB.
A summary of procurement arrangements is given in the following
table. Further details on the procurement methods to be used are
given in Annex F. Annex E gives the schedule for implementation
of procurement actions.
All ICB, NCB and consultants contracts will be subject to Prior Review by the Bank.
The Bank will also pre-review the first IS and NS contracts for equipment in each region.
During project launch concerned officials and WUOs would be made familiar with
procurement methods and arrangements as described in Chapter 4. A general
procurement notice is being prepared.



- 25 -
Table 4.1 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (US$ M)
Item                           ICB        NCB      Other    Total
Works
*  PDIS works to be procured by WUO                              3.88                 3.88
(1.55)              (1.55)
Goods
*  O&M equipment to be procured by WUO                                     44.99a    44.99
(12.37)   (12.37)
*  Drip irrigation pipes to be procured by WUO                              2.98 b    2.98
(0.47)    (0.47)
*  Vehicles & computers to be procured by PCU         2.30                            2.30
(1.86)                         (1.86)
*  Urgent computers & office equipment                                      0.30c     0.30
(0.24)    (0.24)
Technical Assistance & Training
*  Coordination consultants                                                 0.67d     0.67
(0.54)    (0.54)
*  Short-term consultants                                                   0.55e     0.55
(0.44)    (0.44)
*  Studies mainly for future project(s)                                     1.42f     1.42
(1.15)    (1.15)
*  Irrigation Master Plan Study                                             0.11      0.11
(0.09)    (0.09)
*  Training and study tours                                                 1.11 h    1.11
(0.90)    (0.90)
*  Operating the PCU                                                        0.48i     0.48
(0.39)    (0.39)
Total                                            2.30       3.88      52.61     58.79
Total Bank                                      (1.86)      (1.55)    (16.59)   (20.00)
Note: Figures in parentheses show Bank-financed procurement.
a.    About 750 WUOs will individually buy this equipment while paying about 70% of the cost and ICB
is not practical for them. For larger equipment (comprising about 3/4 of total O&M equipment)
costing US$100,000 to US$400,000, IS will be used, and for smaller equipment costing less than
U$100,000, NS will be used.
b.   Drip irrigation pipes will be purchased by individual users in packages less than US$100,000 using
NS. Users will finance 84% of cost.
c.    On NS basis.
d.    Quality-based selection will be used.
e.    With contracts less than $50,000, single-source selection will be used.
f.    Quality and cost-based selection will be used.
g.    To ensure continuation of service, single-source selection will be used.
h.    Single-source selection will be used.
i.    PCU will be maintained on the basis of local administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.



- 26 -
F. DISBURSEMENTS
4.15 The borrower has requested a LIBOR-based single currency loan denominated in
US dollars. Proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed through a Special Account
established at the Central Bank and a Project Account [an interim or passthrough account
which will be denominated in US dollars; each time a sum of US dollars equivalent to
about 30 days of expenditures which have been clearly identified will be transferred from
the Special Account at the Central Bank to the "passthrough" account] opened in a local
bank (agent bank), subject to the provision that disbursement to suppliers and contractors
will take place within four business days from the receipt of application by the related
bank. Special Account will be utilized for the Institutional Strengthening Component of
the project while the Project Account will be utilized for the remaining two components:
PDIS and O&M Equipment. The authorized allocation to the Special Account will be
US$2.0 M equal to about four months' average disbursements. Applications for
replenishment of the Special Account will be submitted monthly or when one third of the
amount deposited has been withdrawn. Monthly bank statements of the Special Account
that have been reconciled by the PCU will accompany all replenishment requests.
4.16 Proceeds of the loan would be disbursed according to the percentages given in
Table 4.2. The grant portion is planned to cover on average about 30% of the cost of
O&M equipment and PDIS. The disbursement schedule is given in Annex J.
4.17 Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs) for: (a)
O&M equipment purchased individually by WUOs with contracts not exceeding
US$400,000; (b) drip irrigation pipes purchased by the PDIS WUO or its members in
small lots costing less than US$ 100,000; (c) computers and office equipment with
contracts not exceeding US$100,000; (d) consultant contracts below US$50,000 for
individual consultants and below US$100,000 for consulting firms and for training and
study tour costs; and (e) PCU operating expenses. Full documentation would be provided
for all other disbursements against contracts for PDIS works, purchase of vehicles,
computers, and payment to other consultants. The SOEs would be prepared by the PCU.
Table 4.2 Disbursement Categories (US$ M)
Category               Amount          % of Expenditures
to be Financed
(1)  Works                        1.55                 40
(2)  Goods
O&M equipment               12.37             28 (average)
Drip pipes                   0.48                 16
Computers & vehicles         2.06                 100
(3)  Consultants & Training       3.15                 100
(4)  PCU operating expenses       0.39                 95
TOTAL                       20.00                 34



- 27 -
4.18 Auditing. The PCU and concerned departments of DSI and GDRS will maintain
separate accounts. All accounts will adequately reflect expenditures made with respect to
the project, in accordance with sound accounting practices acceptable to the Bank. All
annual financial statements of the project will be audited by the Government's Treasury
auditors in accordance with the March 1982 Bank document (Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank). Audit reports will be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each accounting period and will
include a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against certified SOEs. SOEs
and other audit-related material will be made available to Bank supervision missions.
5.  BENEFITS, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS4 AND RISKS
A. PROJECT BENEFITS
5.1  The main benefits of the project are: (i) increased area under irrigation leading to
higher cropping intensity and crop yields; (ii) improved and equitable water delivery; and
(iii) reduced pressure on the fiscal budget from transfer of O&M work to WUOs. The
project would also promote sustainable water user organizations by providing support to
improve their managerial and technical capabilities.
5.2 The project would increase crop yields on about 1.5 M ha. of irrigated land,
benefiting about half a million farming families from about 750 WUOs. By the end of
the project period, the annual value of crop output would increase by US$720 M in
economic terms, and over US$2 billion in financial terms, including an increase in food
grain production of 480,000 tons/year (wheat and corn only). The area under irrigation
would be expanded through more efficient water use. Increased intensity will also
promote double cropping in certain areas where current irrigation ratios are high and
close to 100%. The pilot drip irrigation scheme will have a profound demonstration
effect on farmers, in turn encouraging them to adopt water saving farming practices.
5.3 The O&M equipment funded by the project will keep the momentum on the O&M
transfer program that started seriously in Turkey in 1993. WUOs are presently using old
worn-out equipment from DSI and are being charged a nominal user fee. This equipment
is not always effective or efficient, and is often not available when the WUOs need them.
The proposed grant, on a one time basis, will enable WUOs to buy their O&M equipment
to perform their tasks in a reliable manner and take over O&M responsibility from DSI.
WUOs will bear a major portion of the O&M equipment cost, which is expected to build
greater ownership and commitment to the O&M task they have undertaken. At present,
the average cost of O&M in a scheme managed by WUOs is about US$30 per hectare,
which is only half the cost incurred by DSI in the irrigation schemes under its control.
4  Based on completion of the O&M equipment component of the project under the proposed loan of
$20 M and the envisaged follow-up loan of $17.5 M (see para 3.2).



- 28 -
5.4 Cost recovery of O&M expenses has improved since responsibility has been
transferred to the WUOs. Most of the WUOs have 100% cost recovery, against 20%
recovery rates in DSI-managed schemes. By strengthening the WUOs, this trend toward
increased cost recovery of O&M costs is expected to continue.
5.5 There will be substantial unquantifiable benefits from the institution strengthening
efforts to make the WUOs sustainable, and the project agencies responsive to the needs of
farmers. The project would strengthen the farmers' planning and implementation capacity
by providing training and TA on technical, financial and managerial matters. The project
has envisaged a major role for users in financing and implementing the project
components, thereby ensuring greater user participation.
5.6 Fiscal Benefits of the Project. The project will have significant fiscal benefits. In
the without-project scenario, the government would have to partially renew the existing
DSI machinery inventory (mainly due to old age and obsolescence) to be able to provide
them to WUOs to carry out their O&M services. The estimated cost of the incremental
machinery needs (mainly heavy equipment) amounts to US$107 M, which would need to
be acquired by the government over a period of ten years. In the with-project scenario,
WUOs would procure their own equipment needs and contribute close to 70% of the
equipment costs, which means that the cost to the government in equipment grants and
accompanying technical assistance and training would be about US$35 M. Total
government savings in net present value (in 1997) would amount to US$301 M for the
period 1997-2011 at 15% OCC.
5.7 Without the project, it is also likely that WUOs will be forced to return the
transferred areas back to DSI for them to carry out the entire O&M operation of the
irrigation schemes, using their staff and equipment. If this happened, DSI responsibilities
would increase and it would be unable to reduce its overhead costs and staff size. This
could result in a fiscal burden of about US$57 M in 1997 increasing to US$82 M in 2011.
In the with-project scenario, there would be a reduced role for DSI, leading to significant
staff cuts. WUOs have proven that they can carry out the O&M operations more cost
effectively than DSI. As a result, the burden on public finances would gradually decline,
from US$24 M in 1997 to around US$15 M in 2011. In aggregate terms, during the
period corresponding to the project life, 1997 through 2002, the government is expected
to save US$226 M. During the post-project era, 2003 through 2011, savings due to the
transfer, duly reinforced and consolidated by project interventions, would amount to
about US$597 M (Annex G, Part 2, Table 1).
5.8 Savings to the Economy. Partial savings to the economy (partial because
increased farmer income is not taken into account in the analysis) by reducing the O&M
costs of the irrigation schemes through project support to make the transfer process
sustainable was computed. This analysis reveals that over the project period, cumulative
savings to the economy would be about US$170 M and could reach US$385 M by the
end of the year 2011 (see Annex G, Part 2, Table 2).



- 29 -
B. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
5.9 Models. The incremental benefits are derived from modeling the production and
cropping patterns for a set of representative WUOs. The overall economic analysis for
the project excluded the pilot drip irrigation program for which the analysis is carried out
separately. Annex G details the sample seven WUO farm models considered, the
assumptions, calculations used, area and aggregate country models and their financial and
economic rates of return. Details on the cropping pattern of WUOs with and without
project, expected future yields with and without the project and the economic prices for
the inputs and outputs used are in the Project Files. Major tradable outputs have been
valued by considering and updating OECD's estimated farmgate prices for Turkey and
averaging them over the last ten years to eliminate intertemporal variations.
5.10 Prices. The prices used in developing the farm models were gathered from June
1996 through January 1997. For the financial/economic analysis, averages were
computed using the past 10 years' farn gate price data for wheat, corn, sugar beet and
cotton, expressed in constant February 1997 US dollars. This is due to rather significant
price movements on both the domestic and international markets, particularly for wheat
and cotton. Financial and economic prices used are listed in Annex G, Part 2, Table 3.
5.11 Standard conversion factors. In the economic analysis, a SCF of 0.85 was
applied to non-traded goods. For highly supported crops, such as wheat, cotton and sugar
beet, a lower SCF of 0.75 was assumed. For labor, the SCF used was 0.80, while highly
subsidized inputs were attributed a SCF of 1.4.
5.12 Investment Costs (non-production costs). These costs consist of O&M costs,
equipment purchase costs, technical assistance and training costs to WlJOs. Also,
investment costs for improving DSI staff planning and managerial capabilities, and their
costs related to supervision, monitoring and evaluation have been included. Since no
major adverse environmental effects are anticipated, the economic benefits have not been
adjusted for any environmental externalities.
5.13 Economic Rates of Return. The gross economic rate of return for the project by
discounting all project costs and benefits over 10 years was estimated at over 72% (see
Annex G, Part 2, Table 4).
5.14 A sensitivity analysis was performed considering increases in project costs and
decreases in expected incremental project benefits. The project is robust with respect to
changes in the benefits and costs. However, significant changes in the benefit/cost ratios
are unlikely. The analysis used conservative crop yield estimates and modest
improvements in the yield figures. Realistic estimates were made on improvements in
the irrigation ratios (from 77% to 80%) and an annual rate of increase in new WUOs of
6% over the project period.



- 30 -
Table 5.1 Sensitivity Analysis for Variation in Costs and Benefits
Benefits and Costs   Benefits Down 20%   Benefits Down 10%    Benefits Unaltered
Costs unaltered         45                 59                 72
Costs up 10%            34                 48                 60
Costs up 20%            24                 28                 49
5.15 Switching Values. Costs can increase by 60% or benefits decrease by 38% before
the ERR could fall below the assumed 15% OCC.
5.16 Economic Analysis of the Drip Irrigation Pilot. The investment costs for the
Uluborlu drip irrigation pilot include civil works, drip irrigation pipes needed for
installing drip irrigation systems, farm inputs, and estimated incremental operation and
maintenance charges. The economic analysis covered a period of 15 years. The
economic costs per hectare for drip irrigation works is estimated at US$1,500, exclusive
of construction costs. The economic benefits for the pilot will accrue from changes in the
cropping pattern and increases in per unit productivity, resulting in significant
incremental production. Of the 1,200 ha. in the pilot scheme, about 1,100 ha. of land will
be allocated to cherry production and 100 ha. will remain under apples. It is expected
that the current area under irrigation will remain the same at 1,200 ha. About 19,000 tons
of high quality export cherries is estimated. The economic rate of return was 19% and
the financial IRR was computed to be 24%. The net present value of economic earnings
from the pilot scheme is estimated at about US$10.5 M. The switching values indicate
that the project is robust to changes in costs and benefits -- costs can increase by more
than 1 10% before the ERR will drop to 15% and benefits will have to fall by more than
50% for the ERR to drop to 15%.
C. JUSTIFICATION FOR THE PROPOSED GRANT
5.17 Partial Grant Financing. For both components, O&M equipment support and the
pilot scheme, the proposed grant represents an up-front one-time payment. An alternative
to partial grant financing would be to subsidize agricultural credit to assist the WUOs in
procuring their equipment needs. The Agricultural Bank's standard equipment loans
involve a 50% interest rate (at least 35 to 40 points below the rate of inflation in the
country), a seven year repayment period, and equal annuity payments over the seven year
period. The amount of hidden subsidy in this type of financing is between 46% and 54%.
The rate of the hidden state subsidy would increase if erosion in the principal amounts
due to bad loans and losses due to delinquency are also included in the analysis. In this
financing method, the fiscal burden on the state would be in the order of US$54 M for an
overall machinery investment of US$107 M.
5.18 Besides, there is considerable merit to direct grant financing because such an
arrangement will not distort the financial markets, avoids interference with resource
allocation based on market mechanisms and price signals, and limits political favoritism



- 31 -
that is often involved in the allocation of subsidized credit, which may be diverted to
other uses.
5.19 WUO Equity Financing Capacity. The transfer of O&M responsibility from DSI
to the WUOs has resulted in increased cost recovery and reduced O&M costs because of
the higher operating efficiencies of WUOs. This has relieved the government of the
funding obligation for O&M and a lower level of overall O&M cost to the economy.
WUOs have made considerable savings from the funds normally collected as user fees.
On a per hectare basis, an average WUO's budget is about US$33, of which only a little
more than 50% is used for the current year's O&M expenditure, while the remaining
amount is saved to meet future cash flow needs for machinery acquisitions, and to cover
minor investments in building, land preparation, and contingency needs. In addition to
raising additional funds from the participating farmers, it is expected that this resource
will be used in financing a major part of their O&M machinery needs in the project.
D. RISKS
5.20 The project risks have been identified and analyzed. Measures have been
incorporated in the project to minimize their effect. The major risks associated with the
project are:
(a)   Reversal of Transfer: There is a possible risk of a reversal in the transfer
program, with irrigation schemes going back to DSI. The O&M
equipment component in the project is an effort to support the WUOs
which are in the early stage of assuming responsibility for the O&M
works. By assisting the WUOs to acquire their much needed O&M
equipment and providing TA and training, the sustainability of WUOs
would be enhanced.
(b)   WUOs' Commitment: All WUOs interviewed have shown urgent need
for O&M equipment and commitment to financing a major part of the
cost. There is the possibility that some of them may not follow through on
their commitment. There is also a possibility that WUOs may find used
equipment, including some from DSI, at a lower cost, and may not buy all
the envisaged equipment. This would reduce the disbursement, but
involves no risk for the success of the project. The intended purpose will
still be served.
(c)   Delay in Implementation: The risk of excessive delay in implementation
of the O&M equipment component has been reduced by entrusting the
responsibility for procurement of O&M equipment to WUOs. Also, the
procedures involved in requesting grant funds for O&M equipment,
getting their approval, and the actual procurement process have all been
simplified. While recruitment of consultants according to Bank guidelines
are necessary for transparency and competition, the time needed for
processing and recruitment may slow down project implementation.



- 32 -
Difficulty in finding consultants with experience with successful large-
scale transfer of irrigation management and investment responsibility is
also of concern.
(d)   PDIS: For the pilot scheme, the reliability of water resources is uncertain.
Therefore, the design adopted has been conservative. Only 1,200 ha of the
full engineering design area of 1,600 ha were considered in planning the
project interventions, as the water available was assumed to be sufficient
to improve irrigation on at least 1,200 ha.
6. AGREEMENTS
A. CONDITIONS FOR EFFECTIVENESS
6.1 An Agent Bank, satisfactory to the Bank, has been selected by the Government, and
the Government has entered into an Agency Agreement with the said Agent Bank for
channeling the grant funds for implementation of the O&M equipment and PDIS
components of the Project, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
6.2 The Consultant Coordinator has been selected under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank.
6.3 DSI and GDRS have respectively designated coordinators to serve in the PCU, with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
6.4 The Project Account has been opened by the Borrower in the Agent Bank.
B. AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
6.5 During loan negotiations the Government agreed to:
(a)   ensure that DSI prepare a draft law for WUOs, satisfactory to the Bank,
not later than December 31, 1997; and
(b)   take the necessary measures through the related line ministries to allow for
the establishment of new WUOs.



- 33 -
ANNEX A
COST TABLES



Turkey
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Management and                                                                  %      % Total
Components Project Cost Sunrnary                        (TL Million)                            (USS)                   Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign      Total       Local        Foreign       Total    Exchange  Costs
1. Operation and Maintenance Equipment      1,760,507    5,281,522    7,042,029    11,003,171    33,009,513    44,012,684  75      78
2. Institutional Strengthening               548,752     490,688    1,039,440    3,429,700    3,066,800    6,496,500       47      11
3. Pilot Drip Irrigation Scheme              780,113     187,431     967,544     4,875,705    1,171,445    6,047,150       19      11
Total BASELINE COSTS                          3,089,372    5,959,641    9,049,013    19,308,576    37,247,758    56,556,334  66      100
Physical Contingencies                        88,438      30,807     119,245       552,736      192,545      745,280       26       1
Price Contingencies                           92,887     144,597     237,485      580,547       903,733    1,484,280       61       3
Total PROJECT COSTS                           3,270,697    6,135,046    9,405,743    20,441,858    38,344,035    58,785,894  65      104
SUMCOM.XLS SUMCOM                                                         Page1                                                             9/4/97 10:11 AM



Turkey
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Ma                                                                    %     % Total
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost S          (TL Million)                             (US$)                  Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign      Total       Local        Foreign       Total    Exchange  Costs
I. Investnent Costs
Vehicles for Agencies               33,600      96,000     129,600      210,000      600,000      810,000       74        1
Office Equipment                    79,680     190,720     270,400      498,000     1,192,000    1,690,000      71        3              1
Field Equipment (O&M Equip)      1,760,507    5,281,522    7,042,029    11,003,171    33,009,513    44,012,684  75       78             w
Training                           104,240      61,120     165,360      651,500      382,000     1,033,500      37        2              @
Technical Assistance               223,200      38,400     261,600     1,395,000     240,000     1,635,000      15        3              1
Special Studies/Designs            108,032     104,448     212,480      675,200      652,800     1,328,000      49        2
PDIS Civil Works                   491,690      63,822     555,512     3,073,065     398,885     3,471,950      11        6
PDIS Materials                     288,422     123,610     412,032     1,802,640     772,560     2,575,200      30        5
Total BASELINE COSTS                3,089,372    5,959,641    9,049,013    19,308,576    37,247,758    56,556,334  66     100
Physical Contingencies              88,438      30,807     119,245      552,736      192,545      745,280       26        1
Price Contingencies                 92,887     144,597     237,485      580,547      903,733     1,484,280      61        3
Total PROJECT COSTS                 3,270,697   .6,135,046    9,405,743    20,441,858    38,344,035    58,785,894  65     104
SUMCOM.XLS SUMEA                                                          Page 2                                                             9/4/97 10:11AM



Turkey
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Management and
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Co
(US$)                                                               Totals Including Contingencies
97/98        98)99       99/00       00/01        01102       Total                  a
1. Operation and Maintenance Equipment      22,008,047    22,983,530         -            -           -    44,991,577
2. Institutional Strengthening               2,629,040    1,353,201     926,247    1,272,113    757,449     6,938,049
3. Pilot Drip IrTigation Scheme              2,483,939    2,610,845    1,246,365    254,757     260,362     6,856,268
Total PROJECT COSTS                           27,121,025    26,947,576    2,172,612    1,526,870    1,017,811    58,785,894
SUMCOM.XLS COMYRT                                                         Page 3                                                            9/4/97 10:11 AM



Turkey
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Ma
Expenditure Accounts by Component Operation and               Pilot Drip
(US$)                             Maintenance   Institutional   Irrigation
Equipment   Strengthening   Scheme        Total
I. Investment Costs
Vehicles for Agencies                     -        831,649           -      831,649
Office Equipment                          -      1,747,198           -     1,747,198                                ,
Field Equipment (O&M Equip)       44,991,577            -            -    44,991,577
Training                                  -      1,106,764           -     1,106,764
Technical Assistance                      -      1,719,660           -     1,719,660
Special Studies/Designs                   -      1,532,779           -     1,532,779
PDIS Civil Works                                        -    3,875,248     3,875,248
PDIS Materials                                          -    2,981,020     2,981,020
Total PROJECT COSTS                  44,991,577     6,938,049    6,856,268    58,785,894
Taxes                              8,998,315     1,337,795    1,252,013    11,588,123
Foreign Exchange                  33,743,682     3,257,803    1,342,550    38,344,035
SUMCOM.XLS EXCMTF                                                         Page 4                                                             9/4/97 10:11 AM



Turkey
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Ma
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Tot
(US$)                                                    Totals Including Contingencies
97/98        98/99       99/00       00/01       01/02        Total
1. Investrnent Costs
Vehicles for Agencies               521,676      309,973           -           -           -      831,649                        w
Office Equipment                  1,277,586      209,660     126,083     131,663       2,206     1,747,198
Field Equipment (O&M Equip)      22,008,047    22,983,530         -            -           -    44,991,577
Training                            281,816      288,016     305,968     155,136      75,828     1,106,764
Technical Assistance                419,565      346,136     348,471     302,177     303,310     1,719,660
Special Studies/Designs             128,397      199,416     145,724     683,137     376,105     1,532,779
PDIS Civil Works                  2,483,939    1,391,309          -            -           -     3,875,248
PDIS Materials                           -     1,219,536    1,246,365    254,757     260,362     2,981,020
Total PROJECT COSTS                 27,121,025    26,947,576    2,172,612    1,526,870    1,017,811    58,785,894
SUMCOM.XLS EAYRT                                                          Page5                                                             9/4197 10:11 AM



Tulrkey
P te  P         brvawaz6os of hpon t                                                                                                                                                                                                             hy
Ex_ooR  Accouits UreAdnwn                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ConIL Pks
(USS                                                                                            Phrvical Conhog lebs                       Price Contiefnd                                                                                       Price
Bsae Cost                                   Loel                                      Loec                                              Tot hcL Cont             B_ se Codst+    Cono on
LocW (ExdL    DutrS &                              (led.    Dutis &                          (Exee)    Dutiks &                           Loeei (Eed.    DLtie &                  Pflee Cost.    Physi
For. ExL      Texs)        Tex"          Toed      For ExS.   Taxs)    Tax"         TotW    Fo. tEe.   Tax")    Taxes          Total      For. Excb.    Taxu)         Twe.          Tota     os Bae Costs    CosnL
L hwvsfetmo  Costs
Vc)sefr Agoeebs                     6,0000       41,000       102.000     e610000i          -     4,800     1,200      6,000     11,938      581      3,130      15,849       611,038       53,381    . 186,330       831,049       825,583      8,0os
COfie EquEmet                     1,192,000      160,000      338,000    1,e60,000               16,000     4,000    20,000      24,080     6,670     7,440      37,198     1,218,0S       181,670      349,440     1,747,198     1.728,554     20,644
Field Eumieret (O&M Equip)       33,009,513    2,200,634    8,802,537    44,012,884        -          -         -         *    734,169    40,945   195,779      078,893    33,743,062    2,249,579    8,888,315    44,991577     44,981,577          -
Tehig                               382,000      444,800      208,700    1,033,500     13,000     8,000     5,250    20,250      10,404    21,117     9,403      47,014       411,494      473,917      221,353     1,100,784      1,078,814    27,870
TedrwlAssistame                     240,000    1,118,000      270,000    1,635,000          -         .         .                 9 ,075    80,4e8    15,117     84,680       249,075     1,176,460     294,117     1,719,660     1,719,880
Spec*" Stl1.slO         es)s       052,s80      409,600      265,600     1,328.000     02,400    20,800    20,800   104,000      54,000    20,015    20,155     100,779      769,208       457,015      306,550     1,532,779     1,420,791    111,987
PDIS Cid Works                     398,885     2,378,675     694,390     3,471,950     39,689   225,320    66,302   331,510       9,470    47,960    14,358      71,788      448,244     2,651,805      775,050     3,875,248     3,537,329    337,879
PDIS Matrisals                      7256       i300          412,032    2ze752Dw       7.25    13s01 41,203   257.520            44, 4     so.es02    23,728     ,300         894,306    1eos751        n8983   2ssio20           27100ts         2
Toted                              37,247,758    9,140,317    11,160,259    66,558,334  192,545   413,980   130,755   745,280    903,733   291,438   289,109    1,404,320    38,344,035     8,853,735    11,588,123    08,785,894   58,010,445    775,449
SUMCOUCM.XLS EABRKF                                                                                                         Page1                                                                                                              4W17 10:21 AM



Turkey
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Management an
Components by Financiers                                                                                                                                              I
(I)S$)                                          World Bank          Govemment             WUOs                 Total                   Local (Excl.   Duties &       X
Amount      %      Amount       %      Amount       %       Amount      %      For. Exch.    Taxes)       Taxes          O
1. Operation and Maintenance Equipment    12,372,684    27.5         0       -   32,618,893    72.5   44,991,577    76.5   33,743,682    2,249,579    8,998,315
2. Institutional Strengthening             5,600,254    80.7   1,337,795    19.3         -       -    6,938,049    11.8    3,257,803    2,342,451    1,337,795
3. Pilot Drip Irrigation Scheme            2,027,062    29.6         0       -    4,829,206    70.4    6,856,268    11.7    1,342,550    4,261,706    1,252,013
Total Disbursement                          20,000,001    34.0   1,337,795   2.3   37,448,099    63.7   58,785,894   100.0   38,344,035    8,853,735   11,588,123
FINANCEJXLS COMFIN                                                            Page 1                                                                9/4/97 10:02 AM



Turkey
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Ma
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(US$)                                  World Bank         Government              WUOs                 Total                    Local (Excl.   Duties &
Amount       %      Amount      %       Amount       %       Amount       %      For. Exch.    Taxes)       Taxes
I. Investment Costs
Vehicles for Agencies             665,319    80.0     166,330    20.0            -       -      831,649     1.4      611,938       53,381      166,330    >
Office Equipment                 1,397,758    80.0    349,440    20.0            -       -    1,747,198     3.0    1,216,088      181,670      349,440
Field Equipment (O&M Equip)     12,372,684    27.5          0       -   32,618,893    72.5   44,991,577    76.5   33,743,682    2,249,579    8,998,315
Training                          885,411    80.0    221,353    20.0             -       -    1,106,764     1.9      411,494      473,917      221,353
Technical Assistance             1,425,543    82.9    294,117    17.1            -       -    1,719,660     2.9      249,075    1,176,468      294,117
Special Studies/Designs          1,226,223    80.0    306,556    20.0            -       -    1,532,779     2.6      769,208      457,015      306,556
PDIS Civil Works                 1,550,099    40.0          0       -    2,325,149    60.0    3,875,248     6.6      448,244    2,651,955      775,050
PDIS Materials                    476,963    16.0           0       -    2,504,057    84.0    2,981,020     5.1      894,306    1,609,751      476,963
Total Disbursement                20,000,001    34.0   1,337,795    2.3   37,448,099    63.7   58,785,894   100.0   38,344,035     8,853,735    11,588,123
FINANCE.XLS EXP_FIN                                                      Page 2                                                            914/97 10:02 AM



Turkey
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Management and I
Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
(US$)                                             World Bank         Government            WUOs                 Total                   Local (Excl.   Duties &
Amount      %      Amount      %       Amount       %      Amount       %      For. Exch.   Taxes)       Taxes
A. Uluborlu PDIS
PDIS Civil Works                            1,550,099    40.0         0       -    2,325,149    60.0    3,875,248    6.6     448,244    2,651,955     775,050
Drip Irrigatlon System                       476,963    16.0          0       -    2,504,057    84.0    2,981,020    5.1     894,306    1,609,751     476,963
Subtotal Uluborlu PDIS                        2,027,062    29.6         0       -    4,829,206    70.4    6,856,268    11.7    1,342,550    4,261,706    1,252,013
B. O&M Equipment for WUOs                    12,372,684    27.5         0       -   32,618,893    72.5   44,991,577    76.5   33,743,682    2,249,579    8,998,315
C. Equipment and Goods
DSI Related Equipment                        609,488    80.0    152,372    20.0           -       -      761,860     1.3     609,488           -      152,372
DSI Related Vehicles                         611,938    80,0    152,985    20.0           -       -      764,923     1.3     611,938           -      152,985
DSI Related DSS                              606,600    80.0    151,650    20.0           -       -      758,250     1.3     606,600           -      151,650
GDRS Related Equipment                       181,670    80.0     45,418    20.0           -       -      227,088     OA            -      181,670      4S,418
GDRS Related Vehicles                         53,381    80.0     13,345    20.0           -       -       66,726     0.1           -       53,381      13,345
Subtotal Equipment and Goods                  2,063,077    80.0    515,769    20.0          -            2,578,847     4.4    1,828,026     235,051     515,769
D. Technical Assistance
DSI Related Consultants                      489,577    89.1     60,126    10.9           -       -      549,703     0.9     249,075      240,502      60,126
DSI Related Special Studies and Designs      759,960    80.0    189,990    20.0           -       -      949,950     1.6     569,970      189,990     189,990
GDRS Related Special Studies and Designs     225,528    80.0     56,382    20.0           -       -      281,910     0.5     169,146       56,382      56,382
GDRS Related PDIS TA                         240,735    80.0     60,184    20.0           -       -      300,918     0.5      30,092      210,643      60,184
Project Coordination Unit                    935,966    80.0    233,991    20.0           -       -    1,169,957     2.0           -      935,966     233,991
Subtotal Technical Assistance                 2,651,766    81.5    600,673    18.5          -       -    3,252,439    5.5    1,018,283    1,633,483     600,673
E. Training
DSI Related Training                         640,152    80.0    160,038    20.0           -       -      800,190     1.4     260,418      379,734     160,038
GDRS Related Training                        245,259    80.0     61,315    20.0           -       -      306,574     0.5     151,076       94,183      61,315
Subtotal Training                              885,411    80.0    221,353    20.0           -       -    1,106,764     1.9     411,494      473,917     221,353
Total                                        20,000,001    34.0   1,337,795    2.3   37,448,099    63.7   58,785,894   100.0   38,344,035    8,853,735   11,588,123
FINANCEXLS DISFIN                                                             Page 3                                                                9/4/97 10:02 AM



- 43 -
Turkey
Participatory Privatizaton of Irrigation Management
and Inveatment Project
Table 1. Institutional Strengthening
Detailed Costs                                                                     Quantities                      Unit Cost  Base Cost Overall Cost
Unit   97198    98199   99100    00101   01102    Total    (USS)       Total       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Support to DSI
1. Technical Assistance
a. Short Term (Local)
Legal Consultants                               pm          1        I        -        -       -        2    5,000       10,000      10,221
Trainers                                        pm          5        5        5        5       5       25    5,000      125,000     132,059
Otherstobespecified                             pm          5        7        7        6       5       30    5,000      150,000     158,347
Subtotal Short Term (Local)                                                                                               285,000     300,628
b. Short Term (Intemational)
Water Basin Management Specialist               pm           1        -       1        -       -        2    15,000      30,000      31,005
MIE System Design Specialist                    pm          2        1        1        -       -        4    15,000      60,000      61,668
O&M Equipment Engineer                          pm           1       1        1        -       -        3    15,000      45,000      46,503
Cost Accounting Specialist                      pm           1       1        -        -       -        2   15,000       30,000      30,664
Unspecified                                     pm           1       1        1        1       1        5    15,000      75,000      79,236
Subtotal Short Term (intemational)                                                                                        240,000     249,075
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                                               525,000     549,703
2. Equipment
a. Equipment for Regional Offices
Photocopier                                    item         6        6        6        6       -       24    5,000      120,000     125,383
Computer(desktop)                               item        11      11       11       11       -       44    2,500      110,000     114,934
Computer (laptop)                              item         6        6        6        6       -       24    4,000       96,000     100,306
Video camera                                    item        3         -       -        -       -        3    3,000        9,000       9,099
Video player                                   item         3         -       -        -       -        3    2,000        6,000       6,066
Slide projector                                 item        3         -       -        -       -        3    5,000       15,000      15,165
TV set                                         item         3         -       -        -       -        3     1,000       3,000       3,033
UPS                                             item        3         -       -        -       -        3    6,000       18,000      18,198
Data show device                                item        3         -       -        -       -        3   14,000       42,000      42,462
Unspecified                                   amount                                                                     15,000      15,754
Subtotal Equipment for Regional Offices                                                                                   434,000     450,400
b. Equipment for O&M Head Office-Ankara
Server PC                                      item         I         -       -        -       -        1    5,500        5,500       5,561
PC                                             item        20       20       12        -       -       52    2,000      104,000     107,113
Laptop PC                                       item        9         -       -        -       -        9    3,000       27,000      27,297
Laserprinter                                   item         8         -       -        -                8    2,250       18,000      18,198
DeskJet printer                                item         9         -       -        -       -        9      540        4,860       4,913
Portable deskjet pnnter                         item         -       2        -        -       -        2      320         640         661
Data show devices                              item         2         -       -        -       -        2   14,000       28,000      28,308
Local area network & related equipment        amount                                                                     54,000      54,594
Scanner                                        item         3         -       -        -       -        3    2,000        6,000       6,066
Office fumiture and other equipment           amount                                                                     10,000      10,221
Photocopier                                    item         5                 -        -       -        5    6,000       30,000      30,330
UPS                                             item        3         -       -        -       -        3    6,000       18,000      18,198
Subtotal Equipment for O&M Head Office - Ankara                                                                           306,000     311,460
c. Decision Support System Equipment
Server                                         item        10         -       -        -       -       10    2,500       25,000      25,275
Computer                                        item       80         -       -        -       -       80     1,250     100,000     101,100
Modem                                          item        40         -       -        -       -       40      300       12,000      12,132
Structural Cabling                             item                                                                      50,000      50,550
Printer                                        item        25        -        -        -       -       25    1,000       25,000      25,275
Customized software code for DSS                item        1         -       -        -       -        1   80,000       80,000      80,880
Standard application packages la               item         I         -       -        -       -        1   80,000       80,000      80,880
Networking software                            item         I         -       -        -       -        1   75,000       75,000      75,825
Plotter                                        item         3                                           3    10,000      30,000      30,330
Digitzer                                        item       15         -       -        -       -       15      200        3,000       3,033
Scanner                                        item         3         -       -        -       -        3    5,000       15,000      15,165
COMPO123.XLS INS_STR                                                   Page1                                                           914/97 9:54AM



- 44 -
Detailed Costs                                                                    QuantWes                      Unit Cost  Base Cost Overall Cost
Unit   97198    98199    99100   00101   01102    Total   (US$)       Total      Total
GIS software                                   item        1        -        -       -       -        1  125,000      125,000    126,375
CMI works software packages                    item        1        -        -       -       -        1   80,000       80,000     80,880
Surveying software packages                    item        I        -        -       -       -        1   50,000       50,000     50,550
Subtotal Decision Support System Equipment                                                                              750,000    758,250
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                     .1,490,000   1,520,110
a Field Vehicles for O&M Regional Offices        vehicle      15       10       -        -       -       25   30,000      750,000    764,923
4. Staff Training (DSI+WUO)
a. Overseasstudytours                          amount                                                                   225,000    232,516
b. In-country Training (DSI+WUO)               amount                                                                   90,000      93,006
c. Seminars lb                                 amount                                                                   156,000    161,211
d. English Language (DSI)                      amount                                                                   300,000    313,457
Subtotal Staff Training (DSI+WUO)                                                                                         771,000    800,190
S. Project Coordination Unit
Agricultural Economist/ Team Leader               py         I        I        1       1       1        5   60,000      300,000    316,942
Assistant Team Leader                             py         1        t       1        1       1        5   40,000      200,000    211,295
Support Staff                                    py          2        2       2        2       2       10   15,000      150,000    158,471
Olfice Rental and Related Costs                amount                                                                   150,000    158,471
Equipment and Fumishings                       amount                                                                    60,000     60,660
Allowances and Travel                          amount                                                                   150,000    158,471
Other Operating Costs                          amount                                                                   100,000    105,647
Subtotal Project Coordination Unit                                                                                      1,110,000   1,169,957
Subtotal Support to DSI                                                                                                   4,646,000   4,804,683
S. Support to GDRS In Ankara & Field
1. Technical Training in Drp Irrigation          amount                                                                   50,000      59,623
2 Overseas Study Tours                           amount                                                                   162,500    188,845
3. Seminars                                      amount                                                                    50,000     58,106
4. Office Equipment
Computer                                         item        5        5        -       -       -       10    2,000       20,000     22,487
Laser Prnter                                    item         5        5        -       -       -       10    2,250       22,500     25,297
Photocopier                                     item         2        2        -       -       -        4    5,000       20,000     22,487
Laptop computer                                 item         -        3       3        -       -        6    3,000       18,000     20,683
Audio-visuals for training                     amount                                                                    20,000     23,743
Specialized software                            item          -       -        -                        I -  1   15,000  15,000     17,807
Subtotal Office Equipment                                                                                                 115,500    132,503
5. Field Equipment
Field Vehicle                                   item         2                         -       -        2   30,000       60,000     66,726
Infiltrometer                                   item        12        -        -       -       -       12    2,000       24,000     26,690
Office equipment for field                     amount                                                                    10,000     11,121
Other topographical equipment                  amount                                                                    50,500     56,773
Subtotal idd Equipment                                                                                                    144,500    161,310
Subtobl Support to GODRS In Ankara a Field                                                                                  522,500    600,387
C. Special Studies and Designs
1. Irrigaton Rehabilitation/Modemization + Design  amount                                                                 400,000    478,768
2. Drainage Transfer/Drainage Equip. Study & Design  amount                                                               300,000    358,749
3. Irrigation Master Plan                        amount                                                                   100,000     11Z433
4. Selection and Design of Future GDRS Project(s)  amount                                                                 240,000    281,910
5. PDIS Design and Contract Supervision          amount                                                                   288,000    300,918
Subtotal Special Studies and Designs                                                                                      1,328,000   1,532,779
Total                                                                                                                       6,496,500   6,938,049
la Human resource management investment management project management cost accounting, budgeting, etc.
\b Including the Water Pricing Seminar of 1998
COMPO123.XLS INS_STR                                                  Page 2                                                         914/97 9:54 AM



- 45 -
Turkey
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Management
and Investment Project
Table 2. Operation and Maintenance Equipment
Detailed Costs                                                     Quanffbes                  Unit Cost  Base Cost   Overall Cost
Unit   S7198   98/99   99100  00D/0   01102   Total   (USS)     Total        Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Field Equipment
1. Small Equipment
Computer                           item         36      36      -      -      -     72    2,500       180,000     183,982
Relay(radio)                       item         16      16      -                   32    7,500      240,000      245,309
Motorcycle                         item        142     142      X      -      -    284    2,400      681,600      696,678
Hand-held radio                    item        194     194      -      -      -    388      600       232,800     237,950
Vehicle radio                      item        23       23      -      -      -     46    1,000        46,000      47,018
Fixed radio                        item        25       25      -                   50    1,000       50,000       51,106
Trailer                             item        15      16      -      -      -     31    3,500       108,500     110,939
Concrete mixer                     item          7       8      -      -      -     15    3,000       45,000       46,029
Motor pump                         item         15      15      -                   30    3,000       90,000       91,991
Other                             amount                                                              106,084     108,431
Subtotal Small Equipment                                                                              1,779,984    1,819,431
2. Vehicles
Single cabin pick-up                Rem         25      14      -      -            39   26,000    1,014,000    1,033,250
Double cabin pick-up               item         24      25      -      -      -     49   30,000    1,470,000    1,502,852
Other                             amount                                                              240,200     245,513
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                     2,724,200    2,781,615
3. LUght Duty Machines
Dumper tnuck                       item        26       26      -      -      -     52   50,000    2,600,000    2,657,515
Truck                               iem          2       3      -      -      -      5   45,000       225,000     230,478
Truck for passengers               Rem          10      10      -      -      -     20   50,000    1,000,000    1,022,121
Crane                              item          7       8         -      -         15   40,000       600,000     613,717
Tractor                            item         14      15      -      -      -     29   20,000       580,000     593,053
Tractor with implement             item         23      24      -             -     47   50,000    2,350,000    2,402,540
Tractor+crane                       item       23       24      -      -      -     47   30,000    1,410,000    1,441,524
Sprayers                           item          9       9      -      -      -     18    1,750       31,500       32,197
Others                            amount                                                             352,000      359,787
Subtotal Light Duty Machines                                                                          9,148,500    9,352,931
4. Heavy Duty Machines
Grader                             item        20       20      -      -      -     40  190,000    7,600,000    7,768,120
Loader(dragline) (tracked)         item          3       4      -      -      -      7  170,000    1,190,000    1,218,215
Loader-wheeled                     item         9        9             -      -     18  120,000    2,160,000    2,207,781
Dozer D4                            item        6        7      -      -      -     13  200,000    2,600,000    2,659,739
Gradall-Bantam excavator           item         19      19      -      -      -     38  300,000   11,400,000   11,652,179
Tracked excavator                  item          5       5      -      -      -     10  150,000    1,500,000    1,533,182
Excavator (wheeled)                item        11       12      -                   23  170,000    3,910,000    3,998,384
Subtotal Heavy Duty Machines                                                                         30,360,000   31,037,599
Total                                                                                                    44,012,684   44,991,577
COMPO123.XLS O&M_EQUIP                                       Page 3                                                9/4/97 9:54AM



Turkey
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation
Management and Investment Project
Table 3. Pilot Drip Irrigation Scheme                                                                Unit
Detailed Costs                                                    Quantities                         Cost   Base Cost  Overall Cost
Unit    97/98    98199    99/00    00/01    01/02     Total    (US$)      Total       Total
I. Investrnent Costs
A. Civil Works
Steel Pipes (100-600mm)          m        20,000    8,578        -       -        -      28,578    71.5   2,043,327    2,287,390
Labor (pipe welding)             m       348,554       -                               348,554    0.45      156,849     158,575
Excavations                      m3      200,000   36,528        -       -        -    236,528   1.822      430,954     480,892
Back Filling Hand                m3       45,000   44,195        -       -              89,195    4.26      379,971     427,172
Machinery Filling                m3      100,000   35,333        -       -        -    135,333    0.24       32,480      36,328
Concrete Work                    m3         30t       46         -       -        *        348   22.39        7,747       8,641
Farm Work                        m3        2,000     651        -        -        -      2,651   0.565        1,498       1,675
Service Roads                    m        20,000    4,000        -       -        -     24,000   0.151        3,624       4,045
Hauling of Materials           amount                                                                        78,625      87,650
Valves                          item           -     184         -       -        -        184   226.9       41,750      47,451
Air Vales                       item           -   2,600         -        -       -       2,600   13.75      35,750      40,632
Hydrant                         item           -     377         -       -        -        377     688      259,376     294,798
Subtotal Civil Works                                                                                        3,471,950    3,875,248
B. Drip Irrigation System
Materials                        ha            -     500      500      100      100       1,200   2,146    2,575,200    2,981,020
Total                                                                                                          6,047,150    6,856,268
COMPO123.XLS PDIS                                                        Page 4                                                           9/4/97 9:54 AM



- 47 -
ANNEX B
PILOT DRIP IRRIGATION
SCHEME



- 48 -                              ANNEX B
Page 1
TURKEY
PARTICIPATORY PRIVATIZATION OF IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT
AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
ULUBORLU IRRIGATION SCHEME (ISPARTA PROVINCE)
1.    DSI designed and built the Uluborlu Scheme in 1984. The dam serves a designed
irrigation area of 1,800 ha via a concrete lined main canal of 7 km long and capacity 1.5 m3Y.
The right bank is served by a low pressure pipeline system with California outlet valves into
surface irrigation. The left bank continues as an open concrete lined canal system into field
furrows or border strips. The general layout is shown in Figure 2.3. The scheme was transferred
from DSI to the WUA seven years ago. Several years of drought conditions have caused serious
water shortages and the WUA can only irrigate some 1,200-1,400 ha per year. They also under
irrigate with only 3-4 irrigations per season at 30 day intervals.
2.    The existing cropping is cherry (60%), apple (20%) with the remainder under vegetables
and other crops. The aim is to have 1,100 ha of cherries and some 100 ha of apples. The
existing border strip (8 m wide) irrigation on sandy soils is most inefficient (tree spacings 8 m x
8 m), the argument being that farmers want as much water as possible during their application in
view of long irrigation intervals. The irrigation interval could be shortened considerably by
constructing basins around trees interconnected by furrows. This would improve application
times and efficiency. Under request by the WUA, GDRS have undertaken a feasibility study in
October 1995 to convert the whole scheme to a closed drip system. The study report had not
been prepared but the work undertaken so far has been taken over by this project.
Uluborlu WUA (Uluborlu I.S)
3.    DSI transferred operation and maintenance to the WUA seven years ago. They are fully
conversant with their responsibilities and control irrigation supplies from the dam outlet. DSI is
still responsible for the dam. The chairman of the Uluborlu WUA is the Mayor of the town who
is energetic and gives the WUA much authority, strength and esteem. Operating under the same
laws as the Municipality the WUA is able to secure bank loans without difficulty. The WUA
undertakes annual maintenance for which they have adequate machinery consisting of a loader,
truck, dozer and two graders.
4.    On account of severe water shortages and trying to irrigate as much of the scheme as
possible (1,200-1,400 ha instead of 750 ha as calculated by crop water requirements), WUA is
very keen to convert to a closed pipe drip irrigation system.
5.    The production of cherries in the scheme is of high quality and with increasing export
demand and high prices farmers are converting to cherry at the rate of 100 ha per annum. The
WUA, already in a healthy financial position, will become even stronger. When the scheme has



- 49 -                                  ANNEX B
Page 2
been agreed and construction programme determined the Mayor sees few problems with the
WUAs ability to pay its share of the investment cost.
Dam Storage Ratios
6.    A summary of the important information concerning this scheme is given in the following
tables.
Item
Normal maximum                      21.39
storage (106/ mI3)
Mean Annual Runoff (MAR) (10 6m3)   14.94 (18 yrs)
Storage Ratio                       1.43
Recent MAR (106m3)                  7.42
1990-1995
Change in Storage                   2.88
Ratio
Source: DSI and TR-Engineering estimates.
Existing Irrigation Areas
Item
Existing irrigation                     8.56
releases (106 m3/yr)
Proposed Existing Irrigation Areas (ha) La   750 LZ
La Actual irrigation areas are greater on account of under-watering
and use of wells.
/b Actually under-irrigating 1,200-1,400 ha.
Source: TR-Engineering estimates.
7.    It is proposed to adopt an infield drip irrigation efficiency of 85% and a pipeline
transmission efficiency of 95% to allow for both leakage and management of the system. Hence
an overall 80% efficiency is adopted. This is conservative and a well managed drip system can
achieve an overall 85% to 90% efficiency.



- 50 -                                 ANNEX B
Page 3
Proposed Crop Water Requirements
Crop Req. (mm) Divers. Req. (mm)
January
February
March
April
May                                       16.7             20.88
June                                     92.0              115.00
July                                      178.0            222.50
August                                    160.0            200.00
September                                99.8              124.75
October                                  25.8              32.25
November
December
Year                                     572.30            715.38
Scheme Peak Design Module (Vs/ha)        0.85
Infield Drip Efficiency           85%
Pipeline Transmission Efficiency  95%
Overall Scheme Efficiency         80%
Source: GDRS and DSI and TR-Engineering Estimates.
8.    Based on average irrigation releases and annual diversion requirements the above table
proposed areas which can be conservatively irrigated by closed drip systems are given in the
table below:
Proposed Irrigation Areas Under Drip Systems
Item
Existing irrigation          8.56
releases (106 m3/yr)
Potential irrigation         1,200
Areas (ha) under drip systems



- 51 -
ANNEX C  j
MONITORABLE INDICATORS



- 52 -
ANNEX C
TURKEY
PARTICIPATORY PRIVATIZATION OF IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT AND
INVESTMENT PROJECT
MONITORABLE INDICATORS
Component           Implementation Indicators             Impact Indicators
O&M Equipment   Establishing conditions for WUOs to  Satisfactory and sustainable
be able to purchase required O&M  performance with respect to:
equipment when they have funds to   operation of systems indicated by
pay for their share of cost;      delivery of water in a timely and
disbursement of about $1.5 M/quarter  equitable manner satisfactory to
of the loan for purchase of O&M   users; maintenance of systems
equipment.                       indicated by the condition of
irrigation systems; and reduction of
government spending on O&M.
Pilot Drip Irriga-    Timely:' completion of detail design; Efficient use of scarce water
tion Scheme        award of contract for works;      indicated by increased agricultural
completion of works; and          production as envisaged in the
procurement and installation of drip   economic analysis of the project.
irrigation system.
Institutional      Timely:' recruitment of consultants;  Strengthening DSI and WUOs in
Strengthening      procurement of computers and      fulfilling their responsibilities with
training materials; completing    respect to irrigation development
envisaged training, including study-   indicated by: improved technical
tours; and completion of specific  qualification of persons trained and
studies.                         technically supported; schemes
identified for irrigation development
through participatory privatization
resulting from the studies; and further
responsibility for irrigation
management and investment
transferred to users.
1 See Implementation Schedule (Annex E). Quantities of equipment to be purchased and works
and parts of Institutional Strengthening component to be completed are given in Annex A.



- 53 -
ANNEX D
C ONSULTANTS
TERMS OF REFERENCE



- 54 -                                  ANNEX D
Page I
TURKEY
PARTICIPATORY PRIVATIZATION OF IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT
AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANTS
Following are the initial TOR for the consultants responsible for project coordination. TOR
for other TA services would be prepared by CC according to the implementation schedule
(Annex E), with the assistance of concerned departments of DSI and GDRS, and approved by
the Bank.
CONSULTANT COORDINATOR (CC)
A. Qualifications
1.    Higher level education (at least MS or MBA) in Agricultural Economics, Agricultural
Engineering or Management Science.
2.     15 years experience abroad and in Turkey in implementing, evaluating and/or supervising
agricultural development projects.
3.    A high degree of familiarity with the salient features and issues of the irrigation sector in Turkey.
4.    Leadership qualities to direct consultants and personnel and management/communication skills
to effectively liaise between GDRS, DSI, other GOT agencies and the Resident Mission.
5.    High level of proficiency in English.
6.    Turkish speaking.
7.    No restrictions on extensive travel.
B. Description of Duties
The main task for the CC would be to contribute to timely implementation of the project and its
tasks. The CC would have particular responsibility for ensuring timely payment of grant fund to
suppliers and contractors, from whom WUOs would be procuring equipment or works in accordance
with the arrangements stated in Chapters 3 and 4. The CC would also have responsibility for ensuring
the successful completion of the studies and other consultancy tasks stated in the above chapters.
Following are detailed TOR.
1.    Liaise between DSI and GDRS coordinators to expedite project implementation, and act as
secretary to project coordination committee by calling for periodic meetings and disseminating decisions
taken to interested parties, namely DSI, GDRS, the World Bank and the WUOs.



- 55 -                                 ANNEX D
Page 2
2.    Assist with procurement with GDRS, DSI and WUOs for technical services and goods in order
to complete the procurement effort in an expedient and speedy manner.
3.    Supervise, direct and motivate core staff of project coordination unit (PCU) consisting of
assistant team leader and support staff.
4.    Prepare, with the assistance of concerned officials of DSI and GDRS, detailed TOR for studies
and short-term consultants according to the implementation schedule (Annex E).
5.    Assist DSI and GDRS to provide timely reports on monitoring and evaluation.
6.    Project reporting: prepare and submit all required project reports consisting of monthly progress,
statements of expenses, quarterly and annual reports.
7.    Ensure satisfactory compliance with project audit requirements by facilitating appropriate
mechanisms with the World Bank and the Government.
8.    Help recruit Assistant CC and support staff following his/her employment at the project
coordination unit and complete all other PCU related procurement to render the PCU functional.
9.    Actively participate in/or facilitate all project related activities to ensure the timely flow of grant
funds to the suppliers of O&M equipment, other goods and technical services, as stipulated in the loan
agreement.
ASSISTANT CONSULTANT COORDINATOR (ASSISTANT CC)
A. Qualifications
1.    Higher level education in agriculture, engineering, economics or management science.
2.    At least five years' experience in development projects in Turkey or abroad.
3.    Familiarity with DSI and GDRS functions and mandates.
4.    Knowledge of World Bank procurement methods and procedures.
5.    Turkish speaking and high level of proficiency in English.
6.    Capability of setting up and running an internal accounting system to keep track of project
activities and transactions.
B. Description of Duties
Reporting to the CC, the assistant team leader is expected to perform the following:
1.    Assist the CC in all types of WUO, DSI and GDRS record keeping and correspondence for the
project.
2.    Set up and operate a project management information and accounting system to keep track of all
project activities and disbursements.
3.    Train or arrange for the training of project support staff in procurement, reporting and
computers.
4.    Contribute relevant parts to periodic project reports.
5.    Travel to various DSI regions to follow up on project implementation and problems encountered.
6.    Perform other tasks and duties assigned by the CC.



- 56 -
ANNEX E
IMPLEMENTATION
SCHEDULE



ANNEXE
TURKEY
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Managment and Investment Projcet
1998  1      1999        j      2000              2001               2002
ID    Task Narne                                              Durati    Start      Finish    23|41Q 0Q|3|Q 4|1 Q|IQ2 IQ3 1 4   01 IQ2 IQ3 IQ4 IQ1 I|Q2|Q3|IQ4|IQ  10 |Q1Q31IQ4
I    Effecliv.ness                                                 Od    12/15/97    12/15/97      *  1211
2    StartIng the project & coordination                          85d     1011197    1/27198
3         Designation of DSI and GDRS Coordcnators               Ild    10/113197    10/27/97
4         Selecbon of CC                                          45d     10/1/97    12/2/97
6         Recruitment of CC by                                    Id   12V22/97   12V22197
6         Agreement with Agent Bank                               30d     1011(97    11/11/97
7         Selection & recruitment of PCU staff                    30d     12/3/97    1/13/98
8         Opening of Special Account by                            Id   1V15/97   12V15/97
9         Finalize form of Participation Agreement               30d    10/1/97   11/11/97
10        Project Launch Workshop                                 lOd      1/14/98    1/27/98
11    Start and continue project coordination                   1289d    12/23/97     12/1/02
12    O&M Equipment component                                   1289d    12123197     12/1102
13         Make WUOs & officials familiar with procedure          30d    12/23/97      2/2/98
14        WUOs individually procure equipment                    1259d     2/9        12/1/02    i         -                                                              s-
16    Institutional Strengthening Component                     1299d    1V23/97    12113102
16         PCU prepare docs for procurement of computers & vehicles  60d    12(23197  3/16/98
17        Procurement of urgently needed computers                 30d      2/2/98    3/13/98
18         Procurement of Computers                               150d      3/3/98    9/28/98
19         Procurement of vehicles                                210d     4/15/98     2/2/99
20         CC prepare deCd TOR/schele for studies, consulfs & traing  90d    12/23/97  4/27/98
21         Recruitment of Consultants for Review of DSI irrig. schemes  45d    12Q23/97  2/23/98
22         Training in parallel or staggered packages            1299d    12123/97    12/13/02
23         Completion of studies during the period of           1110d      3/2/98    5/31/02
24    Pilot Drip Irrig. Scheme                                    941d     9/15/97    4/23/01                 m        i       m        i 
26         WIO recruit consultants for detail design & supervision  45d    9/15/97    11/14/97
26         Detail design & preparation of bid documents            90d    11/17/97    3120/98
27         Bidding and award of construction contract(s) by WUO   120d     3/23/98     9/4/98
9/18/97 12:39 PM  Div Disk@EC2AR@WORLDBANKIMOH\REFS\PP19-9.MPP                                   Page 1



ANNEXE
TURKEY
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Managment and Investment Projoet
97            1998             1999             2000             2001      ]      2002
10    Task Name                                          Ourati    Start    Finish   Q39   4j1 0Q2 0Q3 04  Q1Q2 13Q3                          7 Q4 01  Q2  0 Q3   2 _4 2001 0 3 Q 2
28        Consiruction supervision by consultant            558d     9/7/98   10/25/00
29       Implementation of works by contractor(s)           550d     917l98   10/13/00
30        Purchase & installalion of drip irrigation pipes by farmers  500d    5/25/99    4/23101
31   Bank Supervision                                     1234d  12/23/97   9/13/02    .                                                                m -
32        Start-up workshop                                 10d  12/23/97      1/5/98
33        Superv'n misns around each March & Sep.         1175d   3116/98   9/1 3102
34        Mid-term review                                    10d   6/17/02   8/28/02
35        Processing of envisaged follow-up loan            90d    7/1/99   11/3/99
Un
02
9/18/97 12:39 PM Div Disk@EC2AR@WORLDBANK'MOH\REFS\PPI9-9.MPP                            Page 2



- 59 -
ANNEX F
PROCUREMENT



- 60 -                           ANNEX F
Page 1
TURKEY
PARTICIPATORY PRIVATIZATION OF IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT
AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
1.    Procurement of O&M Equipment. WUOs will procure O&M equipment in
accordance with World Bank procedures and will use national shopping (NS) for
equipment costing less than US$ 100,000 and international shopping (IS) for equipment
costing US$100,000 to 400,000. For this purpose they will obtain at least three
quotations from suppliers and for IS quotations will be obtained from suppliers from at
least two countries (including Turkey). Procurement documents are not needed.
2.    Procurement of Works and Equipment for Uluborlu Pilot Irrigation Scheme.
The Uluborlu WUO will procure: (a) works on the basis of National Competitive
Bidding (NBC) using the World Bank procurement documents; and (b) drip irrigation
pipes on the basis of LS since these pipes would be purchased by the members of the
WUO in small lots, as their procurement in bulk is not practical.
3.    Recruitment of Consultants. DSI and GDRS will recruit long- and short-term
consultants following Bank's "Guidelines on :Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers." Recruitment of consultants will be subject to the Bank's
approval of their TOR and qualifications (discussed in Annex D).
4.    To avoid delay in project implementation, DSI will initiate action for the
recruitment of CTL to make sure that the CTL would be available when the loan gets
approved so the project activity could be started quickly. CTL would contribute to the
recruitment of the remaining consultants.
5.    Procurement of Computers. DSI and GDRS would procure computers on the
basis of ICB.
6.    Procurement of Vehicles. DSI would procure vehicles on the basis of ICB,
using World Bank documents.
7.    Prior Review by the Bank. Bank's prior review would be needed for
procurement actions mentioned in paras 2(a), 3, 5 and 6. To avoid delay, a major part of
such review would be carried out by procurement staff in Bank's office in Ankara.



Number                       Bank-
Decitotmsr  Total Cost   Fance    Procurement   Estimated
Description                                 -PType                (Items or                  Fa(US$  (US dM)  Method        Dates
1. O&M Equipment                                                                                                        Dates given in
O&M Larger Equip. Purchased by WUOs               Goods        150 items      31.00         8.52           IS       Implementation
O&M Smaller Equip. Purchased by WUOs              Goods       1,270 items     14.00         3.85           NS         Schedule
Subtotal                                                                  45.00         12.37                     (Annex E)
2. Pilot Drip Irrigation Scheme Works & Drip Pipe
Works                                             Works          2-4           3.88         1.55          NCB
Drip Irrigation Pipes - packages below $100,000   Goods       Numerous         2.98         0.47           NS
Subtotal                                                                   6.86         2.02
3. Institutional Strengthening
A. Consultants                                                                                  _
Coordination consultants                        Consultant        2            0.67         0.54           QB
Short-term consultants - contracts below $50 000    Consultant  Over 30        0.55         0.44           SS                            a
,__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _0 .0 0
B. Training - Study Tours & Seminars                 Training      Over 40         1.11         0.90          SS
C. Studies, Technical Tasks and Capacity Building
Supervision for PDIS                            Consultant        1            0.30         0.24          QCBS
DSI lrr. Schemes assessment program, Master Plan   Consultant     1            0.11         0.09           SS
Studies for Future Projects/Investments & Transfer    Consultant  5            1.12         0.91          QCBS
D. Vehicles                                          Goods           27            0.84         0.68          ICB
E. Urgently Needed computers and Office Equipmen    Goods            3-6           0.30         0.24           NS
F. Computers and Other Office Equipment              Goods            4            1.46         1.18          ICB
Operating cost of PCU (rent, utilities, support staff, etc.)  Support service   0.48         0.39          /a
Subtotal                                                                   6.94          5.61
Total                                                                      58.80        20.00
/a According to local administrative practice acceptable to the Bank.
MFItN  for fPae  cok1m  0.809
FINANCE.XLS PROCPLNJ                                                Page 1                                                        9/15197 7:30 PM



- 62 -
ANNEX G
ECONOMIC AND
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS



ANNEX G
- 63 -                                PART I
Page 1
TURKEY
PARTICIPATORY PRIVATIZATION OF IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT
AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Markets and Prices
Government Policy
1.    The Turkish economy has been undergoing significant economic liberalization over the
past decade, particularly in price, trade and financial policies. The intervention of the state has
been reduced, allowing market forces to operate more freely. Agriculture has benefited from
these liberalization policies, although Government still is heavily involved in the agricultural
marketing process and price formation.
2.    Goverment's policy objectives in agriculture include: ensuring adequate food supplies at
reasonable prices; increasing production levels; increasing farm income levels and stability;
increasing exports; and developing impoverished rural areas.
3.   In pursuit of its agricultural policy objectives the government focuses on the support of
producer prices complemented by fiscal policies, credit subsidies, trade related measures, the
subsidization of farm inputs and transfers related to investment in infrastructure projects,
particularly irrigation. In the crops sector, some domestic prices are bolstered through tariffs and
domestic market intervention purchases.
4.    A number of large state owned and state directed intervention bodies are in charge of
operating the price support policies. However, the system of administering price support has
become complex, cumbersome and riddled with financial problems, resulting in excessive stock
piling and delayed payments to farmers. These problems are mainly due to administering support
prices policies without due regard to differences in product quality, location or volume of sales,
leading to poor quality, an inefficient spread of production, and benefits accruing mainly to the
larger farmers. As a consequence, the government has been taking action to reduce the number of
commodities for which support purchase schemes operate.
5.    The five commodities that have consistently been supported through intervention
purchases (cotton, sugar beet, tobacco, wheat and sunflower seed) account for 90% of the overall
share of support purchases. By the end of 1970s, 30 commodities were benefiting from price
supports, but in the aftermath of the economic stabilization measures of April 1994, only three
commodities were retained on the list of products to be supported directly by the government.
These crops are cereals, sugar beet and tobacco.
6.    Generally, in contrast to the interventionist agricultural policies of the 1960s and 1970s,
current policy is increasingly market oriented, with the aim of reducing both the financial costs



- 64 -                                ANNEX G
PART I
Page 2
of policy operation and the macroeconomic distortions produced as a result. In practice this
means increasing the role of markets, reducing quantitative restrictions on imports, privatization
of state agricultural enterprises and tighter control on the levels of direct payments and input
subsidies.
7.    Import restrictions and tariffs currently constitute significant barriers to imports, but the
future trend is likely to be further reductions and simplifications of trade restrictions, with a view
to harmonization of trade policies with EC and EFTA member state, and Turkey's joining of the
EC Customs Union which became effective as of January 1, 1996.
Markets
8.    For a long period, Turkey has run a trade surplus in agricultural products. Geographical
proximity to Europe, the Middle East and North Africa gives it easy access to large markets
through the Black Sea, Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean. Its main markets include the
European Community and the USA, mainly for dried fruit, nuts, cotton and tobacco, and the
Middle East for fresh fruits, vegetables and meat. Sugar beet and cereals are primarily consumed
within the domestic market. Given Turkey's high population growth rate and rapid urbanization
the internal market for food products is likely to expand.
9.    In summary, no major marketing constraints are envisaged since incremental production
as a percentage of current total production is small. Wheat, beans, corn and fruit crops are
primarily grown for the domestic market. There is currently excess demand for most crops in
Turkey, with the deficit being made from imports.
Major Crops on Irrigated Areas
10.   Wheat. About 18% of the irrigated area is planted to wheat. Irrigated wheat production
accounts for less than 5% of national production which is estimated to be around 18 million tons.
Wheat is irrigated if spring rains are late or inadequate. In years of high precipitation irrigation
ratios in Turkey decline because farmers choose not to irrigate the crop which was sufficiently
rain-fed. The fact that wheat does not need to be irrigated in years of good rainfall causes erratic
fluctuations in national irrigation ratios which vary from 60 to 75%. Wheat is grown usually in
the interior parts of Turkey. It is practically non-existent on the coastal parts. Turkey is both an
importer and exporter of wheat depending upon the year. The country is generally considered to
be self sufficient in this basic staple.
11.   Sugar beet. Sugar beet is controlled by a state monopoly in Turkey with set production
quotas and prices. Turkey is assumed to be self sufficient in sugar although it may import in
certain years of low production. Irrigated sugar beet accounts for less than 10% of the irrigation
area while it contributes about half of the sugar beet production in the country.



- 65 -                              ANNEX G
PART I
Page 3
12.   Corn. Irrigated corn occupies about 8% of the irrigation areas but provides more than a
fourth of the national production. It is viewed as a good transition crop to replace cotton on the
coastal areas.
13.   Cotton. Cotton is the most significant irrigated crop representing 30% of the irrigated
areas and contributing about 60% of the national output. Cotton is grown in the coastal parts of
the country and the GAP area using irrigation water from the Euphrates river. Gradually, the crop
will be displaced by higher value fruits and vegetables on the coast while increasing levels of
production would be shifted over to Southern Anatolia which offers favorable economic and
climatic conditions for the crop.
Prices
14.   The prices used in developing the financial farm models were gathered from June 1996
through January 1997. For financial analysis averages were computed using the past 10 years'
farm gate price data for wheat, corn, sugar beet and cotton expressed in constant February 1997
dollars. This was mainly due to rather significant price movements on both the domestic and
international markets, particularly for wheat and cotton.
15.  In the economic analysis, a SCFf 0.85 was applied to non-traded or non-supported goods.
For highly supported crops, such as wheat, cotton and sugar beet, a lower SCF of 0.75 was
assumed. For labor, the SCF used was 0.80, while highly subsidized inputs were attributed a
SFC of 1.4.
B. Area Models for WUOs
16.   Crop production models. Crop production models were developed for 10 important
irrigated crops in the country. These crops consist of wheat, corn, cotton, sugar beet, fruit,
tomatoes, dry beans, grapes, peaches and olives and account for about 80% of irrigated land in
the transferred areas.
17.   WUA or area models. Using these crop models, WUA area models were constructed for
nine sample WUOs which were consolidated to seven WUA groups with adequate representation
for different sizes (varying from a few thousand ha to more than 20,000 ha) and ecological
conditions in the country. The analysis was restricted to WUAs only which are the predominant
type of WUO in the country and accounting for 92% of the transferred areas. Data provided by
WUA were used for determnining the specific crop patterns (both existing and projected) for each
WUJA sampled. The WUAs selected are from Sanliurfa (inland), Bursa (inland), Manisa
(coastal), Antalya (coastal), Adana (coastal), Kayseri (inland) and Konya (inland). They
represent various size groups: below 5,000 ha, between 5,000 and 10,000 ha, between 10,000 and
20,000 ha and over 20,000 ha.
18.   Aggregate Turkey Model. Next, these WUA area models were properly weighted to
produce an aggregation for the entire country for the 1.5 million hectares which the project



- 66 -                              ANNEX G
PART I
Page 4
targets to achieve. Appropriate downward adjustments on areas were made to account for the fact
that only WUAs were being analyzed. The resulting area on which the analysis was based
measures about 1,379,000 ha where the cropping intensity (or irrigation ratio) was set at about
80% in the final year.
19.  Inland and Coastal Zones. Given Turkey's ecological diversity, irrigated areas were
planned in accordance with two distinct ecological divisions which consisted of inland and
coastal zones. Indicative cropping patterns that might be expected are incorporated in the area or
WUO models. The same crop models were used throughout the analysis for both inland and
coastal zones. However, distinctions were made in the crop patterns between the interior and
coastal zones. Sanliurfa (inland) in southeastern Turkey is an exception to crop-based
segregation of the two ecological zones because it grows significant quantities of cotton, which is
mainly grown on the coastal zone. Also, for the sake of simplicity less important crops and
byproducts were excluded in the analysis. Incremental crop areas and yields for the whole
country are in the Project Files.
20.  Irrigation ratios. In 1995, DSI-reported irrigation ratio on untransferred areas was 56%
while the same ratio was 70% on transferred areas. Although data are lacking, there are
indications that the irrigation ratio on irrigated areas in 1996 has actually improved. The
assumed baseline irrigation ratio for 1997 is around 77% which is expected to improve to 80% in
ten years for the selected crops.
C. Financial and Economic Analysis
21.   The FRRs/ERRS of the seven WUAs or area models were calculated by discounting costs
and benefits for ten years. As expected, the financial rates of return and the economic rates of
return are quite high, on average above 50%. There are wide variations in the rates of return for
the sample models depending on their cropping intensity, cropping pattern, current level of O&M
equipment investment, and cost of pumping. For instance, in the Iznik and Boyalica WUAs, the
economic rates of return are about 15% since they use pumping which is much costlier than
gravity irrigation. In the Adala Left Bank model, much of the land is expected to remain under
low yielding and low value crops because of the soil conditions, resulting in an ERR of only
18%. In Yedek, the ERR is expected to be quite high -- 128% -- since the cropping intensity is
expected to be about 1 10%.
Assumptions
22.   The economic analysis of the project was performed with the following assumptions:
(a)   Inflation in Turkey has been very high in the last 20 years. Thus all cost tables and farm
models were prepared in US dollars. Domestic inflation seems to have past its peak in
1994 (whole sale price index was 150% against 126% of CPI) and is forecast to gradually
fall and stabilize over the life of the project. CPIs in both 1995 and 1996 were lower than
80%.



- 67 -                              ANNEX G
PART I
Page 5
(b)   In addition to the depreciation of the TL, the cost of living and doing business in Turkey
has risen in dollar terms over the last decade. This was reflected in computations by
assuming a 25% dollar denominated inflation between 1989 and 1997 to adjust some
production cost data which were originally compiled in 1989.
(c)   In forecasting the crop patterns, it was assumed that wheat (which is generally a rainfed
crop) in the irrigated coastal areas would be gradually displaced by more lucrative higher
value irrigated crops such as corn except for Southern Anatolia (Sanliurfa and environs)
where production is expected to expand.
(d)   A standard conversion factor of 0.85 has been applied to the value of non-traded inputs,
non-supported crops and non-foreign currency costs. This has been increased from SCFs
previously used in Turkey (0.79), reflecting the government's efforts to reduce duties and
limit the number of goods for which price support policies are administered. The Turkish
economy is likely to become increasingly open over the life of the project consistent with
the requirements of the Customs Union agreement of 1996.
(e)   A SCF of 0.75 was applied on all crops (wheat, sugar beet and cotton) to account for the
high level of support. SCF assumed on fertilizers is 1.40 due to the high level of
subsidization of these farm inputs.
(f)    Opportunity cost of labor: Wage levels reported during the harvest periods of cotton and
grapes are very similar to those reported for construction work in local towns suggesting
that at these times of the year, market rates are close to the opportunity cost. However, for
most of the rest of the year, unemployment and underemployment are also problems
perceived in the villages, reflecting the lack of attractive income generating opportunities.
Labor is therefore shadow priced at 80% of the market rate.
(g)   In due consideration for capital scarcity in Turkey, OCC was assumed to be 15% in lieu
of adopting the traditional level of 12%. Inflation rate on the dollar is assumed to be 2.2%
per annum.
(h)   Baseline or without project crop yields assumed were derived from DSI's actual
measurements in 1995. Yield improvements under the project are assumed not to exceed
5 to 7% distributed over 10 years.
(i)   The most common sources of NPK in Turkey are urea, TSP and potassium sulphate
which were assumed to have been used on all crops to provide the nutrients needed.
Gj)    Due to methodological difficulties involved in their measurement, beneficial effects of
the project on the environment, employment generation aspect by the WUOs, improved
farmer education and the phenomenon of grass-roots democratization achieved by the
transfers and the provision of machinery were assumed as non-quantifiable in the
analysis.



- 68 -                               ANNEX G
PART I
Page 6
(k)   A ten year planning horizon was assumed for analysis of returns from agriculture and 15
years for quantifying and estimating fiscal returns.
Data Sources
23.   The data needed for the analysis come from various sources.
Crop Models: The crop models were based on studies conducted under the previous
World Bank financed effort ': Drainage and On Farm Development Project (DOFDP),
where the reported technical input/output coefficients were used without modification but
input and output prices were updated by first converting them to current TL and
expressing the resulting figures in US$ in constant 1997 dollars.
24.   WUO-Related Information. The WUO-related information was collected from two
sources. The first one was the Monitoring and Evaluation forms 2 developed and administered by
the O&M Department since 1994. The second source was the O&M Equipment Questionnaire
specifically designed for the needs of the project preparation effort. Additional information was
extracted from various DSI O&M Department publications 3.
25.   Prices and Other Information. Farm gate crop prices for wheat, corn, cotton and beans
were obtained from the recent OECD study 4 on Turkey (by averaging these prices over the
period of 1979-93 supplemented with additional price information from the SPO 5. Since, there
exists a close correspondence between support prices and farm gate prices, the former served as a
proxy to the latter where direct farm gate price data were not available.
26.   Border prices for wheat, corn, cotton and beans were taken from the OECD study which
uses CIF import reference price level for which Turkey is a net importer and FOB prices for
commodities for which Turkey is a net exporter.
I Revised Master Plan, Part I, Investment Strategy, Vol 6 - Supporting Tables, Drainage and On Farm
Development Project, prepared for the DSI by DAPTA, Su-Yapi, Temelsu and Nedeco, Ankara,
September 1991.
2 Report on Monitoring and Evaluation for Transferred Irrigation Schemes (for schemes greater than 500
ha), DSI, O&M Department, Ankara, 1997.
3Evaluation Report on DSI-Operated and Transferred Irrigation Schemes in 1995; and, Crop Counts for
DSI-Constructed Irrigation and Land Reclamation Schemes in 1995, DSI O&M Department, Ankara,
1996.
4National Policies and Agricultural Trade, Case Study Turkey, OECD, Paris, 1994.
5Program for Year 1997, Seventh Five-Year Development Plan, SPO, 1996 and Special Expert Report on
Fertilizers, SPO, 1966.



-69-                                         ANNEX G
PART 2
Table 1
Analysis for Reduction in the Government Burden
_Without Project ('000 USD) With Project (000 USD ('000 USD) ('000 USD)  ('000 USD)
Burden on               Burden on Machinery Difference       Total      Net Present Value
State    Machinery      State    Subsidy    due to     Unadjusted   of Public Savings
Budget   Replacement   Budget  and Other  Transfer  Public Savings
After Cost  Cost for DSI  After Cost  Project  and Project 
Period    Years   Recovery                 Recovery    Costs  I_for the Period
1985  37,458                   42,100                 -4,642
Pre ATP        1986  40,028                   44,678                  4,649
1987  41,455                   39,818                  1,638
1988  42,283                   30,059                 12,224
1989  43,979                   35,041                  8,939 PRE-ATP
1990  44,673                   36,938                  7,736
1991   46,279                  42,581                  3,699
_________    1992  47,315                    38,763          _       8,552         33,497
1993  48,872                   50,345                 -1,473
ATP            1994  49,979                   37,868                  12,111 ATP
1995   51,810                  28,034                 23,777
1996  54,789                   26,282                 28,507          83,074
1997   57,280          10,700  24,177        3,500    40,303
Project        1998  59,200           10,700  23,325        7,000    39,575 PROJECT
1999  61,120          .10,700  22,253        7,000    42,568 IMPLEMENT          FROM 1997
2000   63,040          10,700   19,880       7,000    46,860 PERIOD               TO 2011
2001   64,960          10,700   19,355       7,000    49,305                    at 12 % OCC
2002   66,880          10,700   18,760       3,500     55,320        226,119      $353,904
2003   68,800          10,700   17,875                 61,625
2004  70,400           10,700   18,330                62,770
2005   72,000          10,700   17,100                 65,600
Post-          2006   73,600          10,700   17,280                 67,020 POST-             at 15 % OCC
Project       2007  75,200                    17,460                  57,740 PROJECT             $300,891
2008   76,800                  16,170                 60,630
2009   78,400                  16,335                  62,065
2010   80,000                  15,000                 65,000
2011   81,600                  15,150                 66,450         596,5601
107,000     _         35,000   939,249
Note 1: ATP stands for Acceleated Transfer Program which covers from 1993 to 1996 inclusive.
Note 2: The figures in the savings column are current unadjusted values.
Note 3: Negative savings result from higher than expected costs against averages (such as salary hikes due to labor unions).



Partial Analysis for Economic Savings Resulting From Transfers of Schemes to WUOs
A          B         C           D           E       F=B-C-D-E   G=AxF x |F
Transfered    DSI       DSI                 Incremental    O&M       Total O&M
Irrigation    O&M   Supervision Incremental WUO Cost    Related       Related
Area (ha)    Cost    and M/E   WUO Cost for Operating  Economic   Economic  Economic
Saved     Costs    for O&M    Equipment    Savings        Savings   Savings
(USD/ha)  (USD/ha)  (USD/ha)   (USD/ha)   (USD/ha)    (USD)   (USD)
1997    1,350,000       40         10          13           2           15  20,250,000   20,250,000
1998    1,430,000       40          9          13           3           15  21,450,000   41,700,000
Project          1999    1,500,000       40          8          13            3          16  24,000,000   65,700,000   <
Period          2000    1,550,000        40          7          13            4          16  24,800,000   90,500,000         o
2001    1,600,000       40          6          13            4          17  27,200,000  117,700,000
2002     1,650,000      40          6          13            5          16  26,400,000  144,100,000
2003    1,700,000       40          6          13            6          15  25,500,000  169,600,000
2004    1,750,000       40          6          13            7          14  24,500,000  194,100,000
2005     1,800,000      40          6          13            7          14  25,200,000  219,300,000
2006    1,850,000       40          6          13            7          14  25,900,000  245,200,000
2007    1,900,000       40          6          13            7          14  26,600,000  271,800,000
Post-            2008    1,950,000       40          6          13            7          14  27,300,000  299,100,000
Project          2009    2,000,000       40          6          13            7          14  28,000,000  327,100,000
Period           2010    2,050,000       40          6          13            7          14  28,700,000  355,800,000
2011    2,100,000       40          6          13            7          14  29,400,000  385,200,000
Note: The above analysis is partial as it pertains only to the O&M costs and ignores benefits due to increased production and productivity.  3 I
a,0



- 7 1 -                                         ANNEX G
Turkey                                                                           PART 2
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Management                             Table 3
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PRICES
Economic  Financial
(In US$)                                                Prices    Prices
Unit
Outputs
Peaches                                    tons        215.05         253
Wheat                                      tons        120.00         160
Melons                                     tons        100.30         118
Sugarbeet                                  tons         33.75          45
Cotton                                     tons       1,377.75       1837
Com                                        tons        130.05         153
Dry beans                                  tons        340.00         400
Tomatoes                                   tons        115.60         136
Grape                                      tons        246.50         290
Olive                                      tons        620.50         730
Inputs
Materials
Olive planting material                   unit         3.23         3.8
Grape planting material                   unit         0.27       0.322
Chemical weed control                     Lt          79.80          57
N Fertilizer                              Kg           0.22        0.16
P Fertilizer                              Kg           0.38        0.27
K Fertilizer                              Kg           0.53        0.38
Farmyard manure                          ton           3.83        4.51
Fungicides                                Lt          29.81       21.29
Insecticides                              Lt          53.20          38
Pest control                              Lt          17.64         12.6
Packing material                          unit         0.55       0.645
Bags                                      unit         0.38       0.451
Seeds
Wheat seed                                Kg           0.21        0.251
Dry bean seed                             Kg           1.15       1.354
Melon seed                                Kg          64.60          76
Sugarbeet seed                            Kg           2.14       2.516
Cotton seed                               Kg           0.38       0.451
Com seed                                  Kg           1.32        1.548
Tomato seed                               Kg          59.50          70
Farm machinery and transportation
First ploughing                           hr.         10.97         12.9
Second ploughing                          hr.         10.97         12.9
Disc-harrowing                            hr.         10.97        12.9
Smoothing                                 hr.         10.97         12.9
Ridging/furrowing                         hr.         10.97        12.9
Seeding/planting                          hr.         10.97        12.9
Hoeing by machine                         hr.         10.97        12.9
Bordering by machine                      hr.         10.97        12.9
Prune/train/stake                         hr.        357.85         421
Chemical weed control                     hr.         10.97        12.9
Fertilizing                               hr.         10.97        12.9
Picking/harvesting                        hr.         22.95          27
Drying/Grading                            hr.         10.97         12.9
Transport to farm store                   hr.          8.76         10.3
Transport to collect                      hr.          8.76         10.3
Machinery services                        hr.         10.97        12.9
Labor
Highly skilled                              hr.          1.04       1.302
Skilled                                     hr.          0.67       0.838
Casual                                      hr.          0.57       0.709
Establ/Maint                              manday         6.70        8.38
Page 1



Turkey
Parlicipatory Privatizatlon of Imrgafton Management and
TURKEY: Country Level Aggregation Subproject Model
ECONOMIC BUDGET (AGGREGATED)                                                                              April *- March
(in US$)                                                                                                   Increments
1            2             3             4             5                           I 7            8               9              10
Main Production
Main Produds                                 23,973,842   49,199,494    108,026,695    205,646,656    354,516,996    557,563,504    798,674,524    1,019,660,237  1,205,804,136    1,338,028,872
Production Cost
Purchased Inputs
Materials                                  12,702,193    8,179,422    15,352,678    38,272,099    79,181,539    131,790,162    220,901,795   296,486,756     352,619,335     386,737,707
Seeds                                       1,216,089    2,566,669     4.047.595     5,690,625     7,495,442     7,878,414     8,262,081       8,644,716       9,028,383       9,411,592
Farm machinery and tansportation           11,430,625    20,493,769   30,655,580    42,156,793     56,995,967   57,359,236    63,382,273      69,099,157      74.472,345      76,175,878
Sub-Total Purchased Inputs                   25,348,907   31,239,861    50,055,854    86,119,517    143,672,949    197,027,812    292,546,130  374,210,629     436.320,063    472,325,177
Labor
All types of labor                         20,429,550    33.057,282   50,784,391    72,551,812    96,936,111    95,519,138    110,051,265    118,606,418     123,464,405     127,177,814
Sub-Total Production Cost                      45,778,458   64,297,142    100,820,244    158,671,330    240,609,060    292,546,949    402,597,394  492,817,048   559,784,468     599,502,991
Other Costs
Other Costs                                  15,818,504   26,399,855    27,215,985    28,543,617    30,476,867    18,572,058    18,609,085      18,646,011      18,683,036      18,719,990
OUTFLOWS                                     61,596,962   90,898,998    128,036,229    187,215,147    271,085,927    311,119,007    421,206,459  511,463,059   578,467,504     618,222,981
Cash Flow                                    -37,623,120    -41,497,504    -20,009,535  18,431,509    83,431,089    246,444,497    377,468,085   508,217,178     627,336,632     719,805,891
IRR  72.3%, NPV  936,984,908.09
t4   C
Page I



- 73 -
ANNEX H
LEGAL ASPECTS



-74 -                                    ANNEX H
Page 1
TURKEY
PARTICIPATORY PRIVATIZATION OF IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT
AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
LEGAL ASPECTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works ( DSI henceforth ), which operates under the Ministry
of Energy and Natural Resources, can transfer the operation and maintenance responsibilities of the
irrigation schemes to legal entities in accordance with the provisions of the law concerning the
organization and responsibilities of DSI (Law no: 6200).
Thus far, O&M responsibility has been transferred for about 1.2 million hectares with most of these
transfers occurring after 1993 under the "Accelerated Transfer Program" (ATP).
The transfer procedure/instruments of the schemes to Water Users' Organizations (WUOs), consisting of
Water Users Associations, Cooperatives, Municipalities and Village Authorities, are set forth within the
above mentioned law as transfer agreements and transfer protocols between WUOs and DSI.
Due to differences in the legal status of various entities specified as Water Users Organizations, some
problems occur in the process of both the transfers and the execution of the O&M responsibilities by the
WUOs.
This report was prepared in order to outline and emphasise the existing legal framework of the WUOs and
the legal mechanisms which would assist toward the realization of the objectives of the PPIMIP-I.
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Introduction: This section intends to outline and emphasize the existing legal framework for the WUOs
as well as make recommendations regarding further improvements and other possible mechanisms to be
considered toward the realization of the project objectives. The discussion contained here is extracted
from the Legal Report (Annex) which is based on studies conducted on existing legislation, interviews
made with various water user leaders and their senior staff (particularly during Adana field mission), and
meetings held with DSI's O&M officials and Legal Department in Ankara.
The Legal Basis of Transfers by DSI: DSI is legally capable of transferring the operation and main-
tenance responsibilities of irrigation schemes developed by the agency itself to other entities (persons or
organizations) in accordance with the provisions of Law number 6200, which is the basic legislation
governing both the agency's organization and responsibilities. Law no: 6200 allows for the transfer of
integral (completed and functional) irrigation schemes or those that are either being constructed or



- 75 -
ANNEX H
Page 2
planned. The fundamental binding legal documents executed between the WUOs and DSI comprise
transfer agreements and transfer protocols which are duly signed by both parties.
Taxonomy of Water Users Organizations: Until present, irrigation-related O&M responsibilities have
been transferred to users on schemes measuring about 1.2 million hectares. The bulk of these transfers
occurred after 1993 under the so called "Accelerated Transfer Program" (ATP). Entities that took over
O&M responsibility from the DSI are collectively called Water Users' Organizations (WUOs). Presently,
the distinct legal forms for these entities comprise Water Users Associations (WUAs), Cooperatives,
Municipalities, Village Authorities and Universities. This list is by no means an exhaustive one and further
legal forms are possible under Law no: 6200 which lends itself to flexible interpretation. Presently, the
most prevalent WUO type is the WUA, which may usually span over a number of villages and
municipalities. The irrigation-based and joint village-municipal nature of the WUAs requires great efforts
to interpret the current laws as such a land-based joint village-municipal structure per se does not exist in
the law.
Creation and Operation of Water Users Organizations: In addition to Law no: 6200 which makes
transfers possible, the following laws are applicable for the creation and operation of the Water Users'
Organizations:
*. The Turkish Civil Law no: 743
*. The Turkish Criminal Law no:765
*. Turkish Rural Law no: 442
*. Municipality Law no: 1580
*. Provincial Law no:5442
*. The Law on the Protection of Farmers' Properties no: 4081
. The Environmental Law no: 2872
*. Other miscellaneous laws and regulations applicable
Basic Legal Tools for Any WUO: In addition to the applicable laws, each WUO is governed internally
by its statute. Next in importance are the transfer agreements (basic text of rules and regulations) binding
it to the DSI and the transfer protocols, which contain the technical specifications of the O&M work to be
executed under the transfer agreement.
Possible Areas of Iinprovement: Due to the diversity of applicable laws and differences in the legal
status of various WUO types referenced above, problems occur in the process of both the transfers and the
execution of the O&M responsibilities by the WUOs. In light of the above mentioned studies,
recommendations and conclusions are listed in the Legal Report in order to eliminate the obstacles and
resolve difficulties arising from WUOs' present legal frame -- statutes, transfer agreements and protocols
which regulate their relations with DSI. Below are key recommendations:
New Legislation: Once sufficient experience is accumulated on existing problems and constraints, there
may be a need for the preparation of a new WUA law. The most prevalent type of WUOs in existence in
Turkey is the WUA. Existing provisions of the Municipality Law no: 1580 and the Rural Law no: 442,
which are applicable for the WUAs, do not clearly address their objectives, responsibilities, rights and
legal status. Other types of WUOs, namely Municipalities, Cooperatives and Village Authorities do not
need new legislation strictly for the purposes of irrigation O&M. The new WUA law may
stipulate/consolidate the following:



- 76 -
ANNEX H
Page 3
a)     Appointment of senior staff and their status to be governed in accordance with the
Turkish Labor Law.
b)    Advantages provided under Law n: 6183 concerning the collection of Public
Revenues by WUAs.
c)     Tax and duty exemptions, at least for a given transition period during which the
WUA completes its establishment.
d)     Capability of forming higher level structures, such as Unions of WUAs.
To pass a new law, the established procedure is:
a)    A draft bill is to be prepared by the Ministry of Interior and then submitted to the
Cabinet.
b)     The Cabinet approves the draft bill and presents it to the National Assembly to be
routed through a specialized committee.
c)    The draft bill is voted into a bill by the National Assembly.
d)    The bill is signed into law by the President of the Republic.
e)    The law is published in the Official Gazette prior to enforcement.
The time needed to accomplish each of the above steps cannot be predicted as much depends upon the
working schedule of the Cabinet and the lobbying effort that accompanies the submission of the the draft
bill to the Cabinet.
It is useful to remember that the DSI Law no: 6200 remained unchanged over the past 40 years despite
many attempts to introduce to it amendments and improvements.
Improvement of WUA Statutes: The existing text for a WUA statute is a standard one prepared by the
Ministry of Interior for various purposes and for all kinds of associations organized under the Ministry's
auspices. The legal framework for the standard statute can be improved either through the introduction of
new legislation or existing statutes can be reviewed and improved. The latter approach provides a more
viable and realistic alternative to passing new legislation which may be improbable and difficult to
materialize in the immediate future. The procedure by which existing statutes can be reviewed includes the
following steps:
a)    The Directorate of Local Administrations of the Ministry of Interior prepares a
draft statute in consultation with the DSI and the GDRS through a process of
mutually agreed and self-motivated coordination.
b)     The Ministry of Interior approves and publishes the statute.



- 77 -
ANNEX H
Page 4
During the above process neither DSI nor the GDRS can play leadership roles. For instance, the DSI
operates under the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources and thus cannot prepare a draft statute as
this responsibility legally appertains to the related Directorate of the Ministry of Interior.
The essential elements of a good statute are the following: Part 1 (definitions, legal status, establishment
procedure, objectives and constituents); Part 2 (WUA rights and responsibilities, election of members,
organs, rights and responsibilities for organs); Part 3 ( recruitment of staff, rights of possession, incomes,
collection of fees, charges and revenues, tax and duty exemptions, transfer of movables and immovables);
Part 4 (cost recovery on commonly used schemes and sharing of equipment and machinery); and Part 5
(formation of unions, disposition, liquidation, audit and referenced laws).
There is a necessity to clarify and revise the below mentioned matters in the standard statutes:
a)     The election of the WUA council by local administrations causes an obstacle
toward a broader participation by users.
Therefore, the WUA Council members should be selected in order to provide an
efficient operation.
b)     Articles concerning the employment of staff in accordance with the Civil Servants
Law no: 657 causes problems if the WUA does not have any municipalities
among its constituent parts.
Therefore, the revised statute should exclude all reference to Law no:657.
c)     Procurement, sales and accounting practices of WUAs must be independent of the
General Accounting Law no: 1050 and Government Procurement Law no: 2886
which hinder with the efficient operation of the WUAs.
T'herefore, the revised statute should exclude compliance with Law no: 1050.
Improvements of Transfer Agreements: Presently, the transfer agreements signed between DSI and
WUOs are prepared by the DSI. According to these agreements only the operation and maintenance
(O&M) responsibility is transferred to users. The transfer agreements are vague in regards to the rights
and responsibilities of WUOs on irrigation schemes.
The legal framework for the transfer agreements can be redefined working exclusively with the WUOs
and the DSI or through the enactment of a new law which would stipulate in clearer terms the rights,
responsibilities and the legal status of the WUOs. In order to improve the existing transfer agreements
without new legislation, it is expected that DSI will play a lead role in preparing an improved draft
transfer agreement text in negotiation with the WUOs which will be submitted to the Ministry of Energy
and Natural Resources for approval.
The WUO rights and responsibilities needing further clarification are the rights on irrigation schemes such
as ownership, easement and usage. Further possibilities for the improvement of transfer agreements
include addition of an article on definitions and legal terms, clearly and unequivocally identifying the
O&M responsibilities for the users and cancellation of the requirements for DSI's approval of water
charges to be assessed by the users.



- 78 -
ANNEX H
Page 5
Revision of Transfer Protocols: Presently, the transfer protocol prepared by DSI is an independent
attachment to a transfer agreement that simply details technical specifications on the transferred schemes.
The link between the agreement and the protocol is not a very clear one. Transfer protocols need to
specifically make reference to the transfer agreements and serve as a complementary part to the transfer
agreement. No further improvement in the transfer protocols is needed other than meeting the need for
reference and complementarity. Revision of the protocol text involves the same steps as those of the
improvement of transfer agreements.
Transfer of Equipment and Machinery: Existing DSI Law no: 6200 does not allow for the transfer of
new machinery to users. There are provisions, however, for the transfer of old (scrapped) and surplus
machinery to other entities (article 30/e under Law no: 6200). Although highly unlikely, this problem
involves the revision and improvement of the DSI Law no: 6200.



- 79 -
ANNEX  I   j
I     AS ME
SOCIAL ASSESSMIENT



- 80 -                            ANNEX I
Page 1
TURKEY
PARTICIPATORY PRIVATIZATION OF IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT
AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
1.    Methodology: To achieve its objectives, the social assessment focused primarily
on the users themselves, although the management of the WUAs, headmen, mayors, DSI
personnel were also consulted. In particular, the social assessment team carried out
several formal and informal interviews and group discussions in Izmir, Manisa, Adana,
Mersin, Silifke and Anamur regions. In total, visits were conducted in 16 villages, spoke
with 520 villagers in groups of 5-17, talked with managers of 14 WUAs, met with 9
village headmen and 5 mayors who were heads of WUAs, and three other heads of
WUAs who were not headmen or mayors. Another mayor (in Menemen) who was a
member of the WUA, but not its head was also consulted. DSI staff at headquarters
(including the Director general) and Ms. Sen Akman, Acting Deputy Director
General,Undersecretariat of the Treasury, were also briefed. During the short briefings, it
was emphasized that a) the achievements to date are visible and substantial; b) the
current level of participation is impressive; and c) there is sufficient knowledge in the
field of the local needs to move forward and rapidly for the preparation of the project.
Survey Areas
2.    The Izmir, Manisa, Adana, Mersin, Silifke and Anamur regions were visited for a
closer look at the participation aspects of the proposed irrigation project.
Social Assessment Findings
Main Findings
3.   (a)   There is a strong commitment among villagers to WUAs even when (i)
they complain that they now pay too much and the free ride they got from the
State was good; (ii) there are acute shortages of water. When water is short, there
is conflict between villages and villagers; yet (with one exception in Menemen
where the system itself is 40 years old and extremely deteriorated) the users easily
list advantages of having the systems managed by themselves rather than by DSI.
Also, many say "while it was good not to pay anything at all or defer payments
indefinitely, it is better to pay and get a service than not to get a service at all."
(b)   The participatory framework for irrigation management is
indigenous;



ANNEX I
- 81 -                               Page 2
(c)   Self contained irrigation systems were auto managed for the past 20-
30 years;
(d)   In all DSI managed systems, "village groups" always existed and
managed water distribution within the village. The current system is in many
ways identical to this at the local community level with WUA rather than DSI
organizing the intra-village coordination (thus, while the previous Bank project
made an enormous contribution by accelerating that auto management system, its
success basically depended on the fact that it was built on existing traditions and
systems);
(e)   With exception of associations where the irrigation system taken over
from DSI is 30-40 years old and badly deteriorated, WUAs have purchased
some equipment needed for O&M. For the remaining needs, they rely on DSI
under non-universal arrangements.
4.    Users' perspectives: There appears to be a mixture of irrigation management
experience in Turkey previous to the large scale involvement of user associations. The
schemes established by the GDRS were funded by the State and were immediately
transferred informally to the users with no attempt for cost recovery of the initial scheme
but with full responsibility for management and operation. To date, there is no
systematic study of the success of these user managed systems. Since most of these
systems were based on ground water utilization, there is also little knowledge of the
ability of the users to maintain these units when energy prices have increased
substantially.
5.    Some of the small DSI managed systems were also turned over to the users
immediately after their construction but DSI seems to have maintained some level of
involvement and responsibility with regard to the O&M of the main canals.
6.    With the exception of these user managed systems, DSI managed schemes were
not only unable to recover capital costs but experienced acute difficulties in collecting
fees for O&M expenses. For defaults an unrealistically low and one time penalty of 10%
for delayed payment is charged and thus most villagers preferred not to pay. Thus, it is
puzzling that the users would be happier with their own association than having the State
to manage the irrigation schemes practically free.
7.    Discussions with large number of users all point to a general contentment with
association management "despite significantly higher payments" villagers make for
water. As to why, the users offer several answers:
* "No matter how much more we need to pay, it is better to have ownership of our own
scheme";



- 82 -                           ANNEX I
Page 3
*  "No one could know about our problems and needs better than we do.";
*  "Nothing can make a salaried person work day and night when the water is most
needed. The headman and villagers work without sleep to ensure that we all receive
water because they are one of us."
*  "Many schemes are located far from the city and it is impossible to induce DSI
personnel to stay away from their families for months to maintain irrigation schemes
for our communities";
*  "Water is much more equitably distributed when we are in charge";
*  "Our costs are much lower. We know that DSI can no longer afford to provide free
services. To pay for theirs is more costly than to pay for local contractors.";
*  "When you have a problem, you cannot find a person in the State to address. When
you have a problem with your own WUA, you know who is in charge: one of your
neighbors; you can talk to them immediately and without need for a negotiator";
*  "When we manage our own scheme, the water can be given on a 24 basis, thus
making full use of the system. This type of a service cannot be provided by the State;
*  "We do not need to be different to get a service: we pay and get what we paid for";
*  "The state could not collect fees; among us we have no difficulty. With money
collected we can meet our own needs and if we have other needs we can discuss,
collect more money and meet them.
8.    These are many of the benefits users find in their own management. They do not
feel that a new management system has been imposed upon them. As far as they are
concerned, at the village level, the communities always managed the system but did not
have the resources to do the job in a professional way. They elect their own managers,
they question the use of funds, they ask for accounting, and they change management
when unhappy. There is a firm belief that this is the future of irrigation management in
Turkey and this is an irreversible trend.



- 83 -
ANNEX J
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE



- 84 -
Loan Disbursement Schedule
Bank Fiscal Year       Quarterly         FY     Cumulative Disbusements
and Quarter Ending    Disbursements    Subtotals
US$ M         US$ M          US$ M         % of Total
FY 1998
December31, 1997             0.70                          0.70           3.5%
March 31,1998                 1.20                         1.90           9.5%
June 30, 1998                 1.80                         3.70          18.5%
3.70
FY 1999
September 30,1998             1.90                         5.60          28.0%
December 31, 1998             1.90                         7.50          37.5%
March 31, 1999                1.90                         9.40          47.0%
June 30, 1999                 1.80                         11.20         56.0%
7.50
FY 2000
September 30, 1999            1.70                         12.90         64.5%
December 31, 1999             1.60                         14.50         72.5%
March 31, 2000                1.00                         15.50         77.5%
June 30, 2000                0.90                          16.40         82.0%
5.20
FY 2001
September 30, 2000           0.70                          17.10         85.5%
December 31, 2000            0.50                          17.60         88.0%
March 31, 2001               0.40                          18.00         90.0%
June 30, 2001                0.40                          18.40         92.0%
2.00
FY 2002
September 30, 2001           0.35                          18.75         93.8%
December 31, 2001            0.35                          19.10         95.5%
March 31, 2002               0.30                          19.40         97.0%
June 30, 2002                0.30                          19.70         98.5%
1.30
FY 2003
September 30, 2003           0.30           0.30           20.00         100.0%
20.00
- D_            ----------
FINANCE.XLS DisbSch                                                                    9/15/97 5:44 PM



- 85 -
ANNEX K
COST OF PROJECT
WITH INCLUSION OF
ENVISAGED FOLLOW-UP LOAN



Turkey
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Management and                                                                       %     % Total
Components Project Cost Summary                          (TL Million)                              (USS)                    Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign        Total        Local       Foreign        Total     Exchange  Costs
1. Operation and Maintenance Equipment      4,119,690    12,359,070    16,478,760    25,748,063    77,244,188    102,992,250   75      89         00
2. Institutional Strengthening                548,752      490,688     1,039,440    3,429,700    3,066,800      6,496,500      47       6
3. Pilot Drip Irrigation Scheme               780,113      187,431      967,544     4,875,705    1,171,445      6,047,150      19       5
Total BASELINE COSTS                           5,448,555    13,037,189    18,485,744    34,053,468    81,482,433    115,535,900  71      100
Physical Contingencies                         88,438       30,807      119,245      552,736       192,545       745,280       26        1
Price Contingencies                           282,480      713,373      995,853     1,765,497    4,458,584      6,224,081      72       5
Total PROJECT COSTS                            5,819,472    13,781,370    19,600,842    36,371,700    86,133,561    122,505,261  70      106
ANNEX-K. SUMCOM                                                                                                                              9/15197  8:12 PM



Turkey
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Ma                                                                       %     % Total
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost S           (TL Million)                             (USS)                    Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign       Total        Local        Foreign       Total     Exchange  Costs
1. Investment Costs
Vehicles for Agencies               33,600       96,000      129,600      210,000      600,000       810,000       74        1
Office Equipment                    79,680      190,720      270,400      498,000     1,192,000     1,690,000      71       1
Field Equipment (O&M Equip)      4,119,690    12,359,070    16,478,760    25,748,063    77,244,188    102,992,250  75      89          oo
Training                           104,240       61,120      165,360      651,500      382,000      1,033,500      37        1          -
Technical Assistance               223,200       38,400      261,600     1,395,000     240,000      1,635,000      15        1          1
Special Studies/Designs            108,032      104,448      212,480      675,200      652,800      1,328,000      49        1
PDIS Civil Works                   491,690       63,822      555,512    3,073,065      398,885      3,471,950      11       3
PDIS Materials                     288,422      123,610      412,032     1,802,640     772,560      2,575,200      30       2
Total BASELINE COSTS                5,448,555    13,037,189    18,485,744    34,053,468    81,482,433    115,535,900  71     100
Physical Contingencies              88,438       30,807      119,245      552,736      192,545       745,280       26        1
Price Contingencies                282,480      713,373      995,853     1,765,497    4,458,584     6,224,081      72       5
Total PROJECT COSTS                 5,819,472    13,781,370    19,600,842    36,371,700    86,133,561    122,505,261  70     106
ANNEX_K  SUMEA                                                                                                                             9/15/97  8:12 PM



Tti*ey
PsWOxIia0y Ploatizatloo of )niptoo U                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PhysIcal
EepeiSWs Accon ta &wO1ke,n                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COt Phs
OMS)                                                                                              PCWlcai CerAkWncds                           Prke Con6eNcle                                                                                             Pike
Becoot                                     Lcal                                        LAce)                                               Tated h,cI Cnt.                     Bass Costs 4    Cmit, ot
Lca IEXCI    Dlies &                                 (EKd.   bullet &                           (ExcL    ODst0  &                               Local (FxcL  DCtIes.                     PrIc ConL on   Phymcadl
Fcr. EBh.      Thre)       Taxes          TOW       FPe. Each.   Taxun)    Taxes       Total   Fec. ExthL    Taes)      'axes        Tow        For. Exch      Taes)        Txes           TOal        Boss Costs      Cost.
I. hveshwIset Costa
Veliclkesfr Aexies                  800,000       48,000       162,000       610,000                 4,9O      1,200     5,000       11,92S       So1        3,130     1i.049       611,030        53.301      18,330         031,849        S25.0583     s,0o6         c
Oft* Eoett                         1,102.000     150,000       336,000     1,6600,00          -    1,000       4,000    20,000       24,080     5,070       7,440       37,190     1,216,000      181,670      349,440      1,747,108      1,726,554     20,044
Fd EWOVes (0.M Eq*)              77,244,100     0,149,013    20,000,450    102,602,200                             *              4,200,021   200,035    1,143,739    S,71,004    01,033,200    5,435.547    21.742,189    106,710.G44   108,710,944          .
Trath                               382,000      444,800       206,700     1,033,000     13,000      8,OD0     5,2w0    26,200       16,494    21,117       9,403       47,014      411,404      473,917       221,323      1,100,784       1,078,04      27,870
Teiw           l Ao)axe             240,000     1,110,QQD      279,000     1,620,000          -         *          -         -        0,075    60,406      15,111       04,60       249,075     1,176,468      204,117      1,71,0660      1,710,660
sP0Iest5aesiDeos60                  062,800      400,600       285,600     1,320.000     62,400    20,800     20,600    104,000      54,000    20,615      20,106      100,770      760,200       457,015      304,86       1,032,170      1,420,701     111,987
PDISCMWoes                          396,085     2,37a,67s     64,390       3,471,0S5    329,06    228,320    60,302   531,510         0,470    47,500       14,356      71,708      448,244     2,651,055      775,050      3,87s,248      3,537,320    337,670
POai Materals                       12 .        13908 B       412UM2       2,070,200     77,256    12061    41 .203   257.520        4,490    flo,  2      2312,i 14B,             8e4,306      1,008751       476,963      2,081.020      2.S710018    271,002
TotaO                               01,402,433    11i,07,288    22,808,172    115,S30,90o  192,848   413.00D    136,755   745,260    4,450,584   526,438    1,237,000    6,224.091    86,133.561    12,039,704    24.231,55    122.505,261  121,720,012   775,440
AMEX_K  E48RKF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9115097  612Pm



Turkey
Participatory Privatization of Irnigaion Management and I
Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
(US$)                                             World Bank         Govemment             WUOs                  Total                   Local (Excl.   Duties &
Amount      %      Amount       %      Amount       %       Amount       %      For. Exch.    Taxes)       Taxes
A. Uluborlu PDIS
PDIS Civil Works                            1,550,099    40.0         0       -    2,325,149    60.0     3,875,248    3.2     448,244    2,651,955      775,050
Drip Irrigation System                       476,963    16.0          0       -    2,504,057    84.0     2,981,020    2.4      894,306    1,609,751     476,963
Subtotal Uluborlu PDIS                        2,027,062    29.6         0       -    4,829,206    70.4     6,856,268    5.6    1,342,550    4,261,706    1.252,013
B. O&M EquipmentforWUOs                      29,895,510    27.5         0           78,815,434    72.5   108,710,944    88.7   81,533,208    5,435,547   21,742,189
C. Equipment and Goods
DSI Related Equipment                        609,488    80.0    152,372    20.0           -       -       761,860     0.6      609,488           -      152,372
DSI Related Vehicles                         611,938    80.0    152,985    20.0           -       -       764,923     0.6     611,938            -      152,985     1
DSI Related DSS                              606,600    80.0    151,650    20.0            -      -       758,250     0.6      606,600           -      151,650     00
GDRS Related Equipment                       181,670    80.0      45,418    20.0          -       -       227,088     0.2           -      181,670       45,418     s
GDRS Related Vehicles                         53,381    80.0      13,345    20.0          -       -        66,726     0.1           -       53,381       13,345
Subtotal Equipment and Goods                  2,063,077    80.0    515,769    20.0          -       -      2,578,847    2.1    1,828,026     235,051      515,769
D. Technical Assistance
DSI Related Consultants                      489,577    89.1     60,126    10.9           -       -       549,703     0.4      249,075     240,502       60,126
DSI Related Special Studies and Designs      759,960    80.0    189,990    20.0            -      -       949,950     0.8      569,970     189,990      189,990
GDRS Related Special Studies and Designs     225,528    80.0      56,382    20.0           -      -       281,910     0.2      169,146      56,382       56,382
GDRS Related PDIS TA                         240,735    80.0      60,184    20.0          -       -       300,918     0.2       30,092     210,643       60,184
Project Coordination Unit                    935,966    80.0    233,991    20.0           -       -      1,169,957    1.0           -      935,966      233,991
Subtotal Technical Assistance                 2,651,766    81.5    600,673    18.5          -       -      3,252,439    2.7    1,018,283    1,633,483     600,673
E. Training
DSI Related Training                         640,152    80.0    160,038    20.0            -      -       800,190     0.7      260,418     379,734      160,038
GDRS Related Training                        245,259    80.0      61,315    20.0           -      -       306,574     0.3      151,076      94,183       61,315
Subtotal Training                              885,411    80.0    221,353    20.0           -       -      1,106,764    0.9      411,494     473,917      221,353
Total                                        37,522,827    30.6   1,337,795    1.1   83,644,640    68.3   122,505,261   100.0   86,133,561    12,039,704   24,331,996
ANNEX_K. DISFIN                                                                                                                                     9/15i97  8:12 PM



Turkey
Particpatory Prhatization of ffrigation Management an
Components by Financiers
(US$)                                            World Bank         Government             WUOs                  Total                   Local (Excl.   Duties &
Amount      %       Amount      %       Amount      %       Amount        %      For. Exch.    Taxes)       Taxes
C)
1. Operation and Maintenance Equipment    29,895,510    27.5         0       -   78,815,434    72.5   108,710,944    88.7   81,533,208    5,435,547   21,742,189    1
2. Institutional Strengthening             5,600,254    80.7   1,337,795    19.3          -       -     6,938,049    5.7    3,257,803    2,342,451    1,337,795
3. Pilot Drip Irrigaton Scheme             2,027,062    29.6         0       -    4,829,206    70.4     6,856,268    5.6    1,342,550    4,261,706    1,252,013
Total Disbursement                          37,522,827    30.6   1,337,795    1.1   83,644,640    68.3   122,505,261   100.0   86,133,561    12,039,704   24,331,996
ANNEX_K. COMFIN                                                                                                                                     9/15/97  8:12 PM



Turkey
Participatory Privatization of Inigation Ma
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(USS)                                  World Bank         Government             WUOs                  Total                    Local (Excl.   Duties &
Amount      %       Amount      %       Amount       %       Amount        %      For. Exch.    Taxes)       Taxes
I. Investment Costs
Vehicles for Agencies             665,319    80.0    166,330    20.0            -       -       831,649     0.7      611,938       53,381      166,330     O
Office Equipment                 1,397,758    80.0    349,440    20.0           -       -      1,747,198    1.4    1,216,088      181,670      349,440
Field Equipment (O&M Equip)     29,895,510    27.5         0        -   78,815,434    72.5   108,710,944    88.7   81,533,208    5,435,547    21,742,189
Training                          885,411    80.0    221,353    20.0            -       -      1,106,764    0.9      411,494      473,917      221,353
Technical Assistance             1,425,543    82.9    294,117    17.1           -       -      1,719,660     1.4     249,075     1,176,468     294,117
Special Studies/Designs          1,226,223    80.0    306,556    20.0           -       -      1,532,779    1.3      769,208      457,015      306,556
PDIS Civil Works                 1,550,099    40.0         0        -    2,325,149    60.0     3,875,248    3.2      448,244    2,651,955      775,050
PDIS Materials                    476,963    16.0          0        -    2,504,057    84.0     2,981,020    2.4      894,306     1,609,751     476,963
Total Disbursement                37,522,827    30.6   1,337,795    1.1   83,644,640    68.3   122,505,261   100.0   86,133,561    12,039,704   24,331,996
ANNEX_K. EXPFIN                                                                                                                            9/15/97  8:12 PM



Turkey
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Ma
Expenditure Accounts by Component Operation and               Pilot Drip
(US$)                             Maintenance   Institutional   Irrigation
Equipment   Strengthening   Scheme        Total
I. Investment Costs
Vehicles for Agencies                     -        831,649          -        831,649
Office Equipment                          -      1,747,198          -      1,747,198
Field Equipment (O&M Equip)      108,710,944            -           -    108,710,944
Training                                  -      1,106,764          -      1,106,764
Technical Assistance                      -      1,719,660          -      1,719,660
Special Studies/Designs                   -      1,532,779          -      1,532,779
PDIS Civil Works                          -             -   3,875,248      3,875,248
PDIS Materials                            -             -    2,981,020     2,981,020
Total PROJECT COSTS                 108,710,944     6,938,049    6,856,268    122,505,261
Taxes                             21,742,189     1,337,795    1,252,013   24,331,996
Foreign Exchange                  81,533,208     3,257,803    1,342,550   86,133,561
ANNEX_K. EXCMTF                                                                                                                           9/15/97  8:12 PM



Turkey
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Ma
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Tot
(US$)                                                     Totals Including Contingencies
97/98        98/99        99/00        00/01        01/02         Total
I, Investment Costs
Vehicles for Agencies               521,676     309,973            -            -             -       831,649
Office Equipment                  1,277,586     209,660       126,083      131,663        2,206      1,747,198
Field Equipment (O&M Equip)      21,176,861    21,642,752    22,298,408    23,004,814    20,588,110    108,710,944
Training                            281,816      288,016      305,968      155,136       75,828      1,106,764
Technical Assistance               419,565      346,136       348,471      302,177      303,310      1,719,660
Special Studies/Designs             128,397      199,416      145,724      683,137      376,105      1,532,779
PDIS Civil Works                  2,483,939    1,391,309           -            -             -      3,875,248
PDIS Materials                           -    1,219,536     1,246,365      254,757      260,362      2,981,020
Total PROJECT COSTS                 26,289,840    25,606,798    24,471,020    24,531,683    21,605,920    122,505,261
ANNEX-K. EAYRT                                                                                                                             9/15/97  8:12 PM



Turkey
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Management and
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Co
(US$)                                                                Totals Including Contingencies
97/98        98/99        99/00        00/01        01/02         Total                '
1. Operation and Maintenance Equipment     21,176,861    21,642,752    22,298,408    23,004,814    20,588,110    108,710,944
2. Institutional Strengthening               2,629,040    1,353,201     926,247     1,272,113      757,449     6,938,049
3. Pilot Drip Irrigation Scheme              2,483,939    2,610,845    1,246,365     254,757      260,362      6,856,268
Total PROJECT COSTS                           26,289,840    25,606,798    24,471,020    24,531,683    21,605,920    122,505,261
ANNEX_K  COMYRT                                                                                                                           9/15/97  8:12 PM



Turkey
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Manageme
Table 2. Operation and Maintenance Equipment
Detailed Costs                                                             Quantities                            Unit Cost   Base Cost   Overall Cost
Unit     97/98      98/99      99/00      00/01     01/02       Total     (US$)       Total         Total
I. Investrnent Costs
A. Field Equipment
1. Small Equipment
Computer                          item           29         29         29        29         29         145     2,500       362,500       382,972
Relay(radio)                      item           15         15         15         15        15         75      7,500       562,500       594,266
Motorcycle                        item          134        134        134        134       134        670      2,400      1,608,000    1,698,809
Hand-held radio                   item          186        186        186        186       186        930       600        558,000       589,512
Vehicleradio                      item           22         22         22         22        22         110     1,000       110,000       116,212
Fixed radio                       item           22         22         22        22         22         110     1,000       110,000       116,212
Trailer                            item          15         15         15         15        15          75     3,500       262,500       277,324
Concrete mixer                    item            7          7          7         7          7         35      3,000       105,000       110,930
Motor pump                         item          14         14         14         14        14          70     3,000       210,000       221,859
Other                            amount                                                                                    500,000       528,237
Subtotal Small Equipment                                                                                                   4,388,500     4,636,334
2. Vehicles
Single cabin pick-up              item           13         13         13         13         13         65    26,000      1,690,000     1,785,440
Double cabin pick-up               item          24         24         24         24        24         120    30,000     3,600,000     3,803,304
Other                            amount                                                                                    500,000       528,237       n
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                                          5,790,000     6,116,981
3. Light Duty Machines
Dumper truck                      item           25         25         25         25        25         125    50,000     6,250,000     6,602,959
Truck                             item            3          3          3          3          3         15    45,000       675,000       713,120
Truck for passengers              item           10         10         10         10         10         50    50,000      2,500,000     2,641,184
Crane                             item            7          7          7          7          7         35    40,000      1,400,000     1,479,063
Tractor                           item           14         14         14         14         14         70    20,000      1,400,000     1,479,063
Tractor with implement            item           18         18         18         18         18         90    50,000      4,500,000     4,754,131
Tractor + crane                   item           22         22         22         22         22        110    30,000      3,300,000     3,486,362
Sprayers                          item            9          9          9          9          9         45     1,750        78,750        83,197
Others                           amount                                                                                   2,000,000     2,112,947
Subtotal Light Duty Machines                                                                                               22,103,750   23,352,025
4. Heavy Duty Machines
Grader                            item           20         20         20         20         16         96   190,000     18,240,000    19,234,756
Loader(dragline) (tracked)        item            2          2          3          3          2         12   170,000      2,040,000     2,158,985
Loader-wheeled                    item            8          8          8          8          9         41   120,000      4,920,000     5,203,426
Dozer D4                           item           6          6          6          7          7         32   200,000      6,400,000     6,775,271
Gradall-Bantam excavator           item          18         18         18         18         14         86   300,000    25,800,000     27,201,247
Tracked excavator                  item           5          5          5          5          3         23   150,000      3,450,000     3,630,891
Excavator (wheeled)               item           12         12         12         12         10         58   170,000      9,860,000    10,401,027
Subtotal Heavy Duty Machines                                                                                               70,710,000    74,605,604
Total                                                                                                                         102,992,250    108,710,944
ANNEX_K. O&M EQUIP                                                                                                                        9/15/97  8:12PM



- 96 -
ANNEX L
COST OF O&M EQUIPMENT CONSIDERED
TO BE PURCHASED UNDER THE
ENVISAGED FOLLOW-UP LOAN
OF $17.5 MILLION



Turkey
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Ma                                                                    %      % Total
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost S          (TL Million)                             (US$)                   Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign      Total        Local       Foreign        Total    Exchange  Costs
1. Investment Costs
Field Equipment (O&M Equip)      2,359,269    7,077,808   9,437,077    14,745,433    44,236,298    58,981,731   75      100
Total BASELINE COSTS               2,359,269    7,077,808    9,437,077    14,745,433    44,236,298    58,981,731   75     100
Physical Contingencies                  -           -            -            -            -             -        -       -
Price Contingencies                186,185     558,556      744,742    1,163,659    3,490,977    4,654,636       75       8
Total PROJECT COSTS                 2,545,455    7,636,364    10,181,819    15,909,092    47,727,275    63,636,367  75     108
ANNEX-L. SUMEA                                                                                                                             9/15/97 7:55 PM



Turkey
Participatory Privatization of lrrigatio
Disbursements by Financiers
(US$)                              World Bank      Government            WUOs                  Total                    Local (Excl.    Duties &
Amount      %    Amount   %         Amount      %       Amount        %      For. Exch.    Taxes)        Taxes
A. PDIS Civil Works                   -       -                           -        -            -       -            -
B. O&M Equipment for WUOs     17,500,001    27.5       -       -  46,136,366    72.5   63,636,367   100.0   47,727,275     3,181,818    12,727,273
C. Equipment and Goods
D. Consultants and Training
Total                          17,500,001    27.5      -       -  46,136,366    72.5   63,636,367   100.0   47,727,275     3,181,818    12,727,273
ANNEX_L. DISFIN                                                                                                                            9/15/97  7:55 PM



Turkey
Participatory Prvatization of Irrigation Ma
Expenditure Accounts by Component Operation and               Pilot Drip
(US$)                             Maintenance   Institutional   Irrigation
Equipment   Strengthening   Scheme       Total
I. Investment Costs
Field Equipment (O&M Equip)       63,636,367            -          -    63,636,367
Total PROJECT COSTS                  63,636,367            -          -    63,636,367
Taxes                             12,727,273            -          -    12,727,273
Foreign Exchange                  47,727,275            -          -   47,727,275
ANNEX_L. EXCMTF                                                                                                                            9/15/97 7:55PM



Turkey
Participatory Privization of Irrigation Ma
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Tot
(US$)                                            Totals Including Contingencies
97198   98/99      99/00        00101        01/02         Total 
I. Investment Costs
Field Equipment (O&M Equip)                       21,365,378    21,225,126    21,045,862    63,636,367
Total PROJECT COSTS                    -        -   21,365,378    21,225,126    21,045,862    63,636,367
ANNEX_L. EAYRT                                                                                                                               9/15/97 7:55PM



Turkey
Participatory Privatization of Irrigation Managem
Table 2. Operation and Maintenance Equipment
Detailed Costs                                                       Quantities                             Unit Cost  Base Cost  Including Contingencies (USS)           Overall Cost
Unit   97198   98199    99100       00o10      01102      Total     (US$)       Total        99100        00/01        01102        Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Field Equipment
1. Small Equlpment
Computer                          item                 -         28         28         27         83     2,500      207,500        73,918      75,544       74,449      223,911
Relay(radio)                      item         -       -         15         15         15         45     7,500      337,500       118,797     121,411       124,082     364,289
Motorcycle                        item         -       -        131        131        130        392     2,400      940,800      331,998      339,302      344,120     1,015,420
Hand-held radio                   item          -       -       181        181        181        543       600      325,800       114,679      117,202     119,780      351,660
Vehicle radio                     item          -       -        22         22         22         66     1,000       66,000        23,231      23,743       24,265       71,239
Fixed radio                       item         -                 21         21         20         62     1,000       62,000       22,175       22,663       22,059       66,898
Trailer                            item        -        -        15         14         14         43     3,500      150,500       55,439       52,881       54,044      162,364
Concrete mixer                     item        -                  7          7          6         20     3,000       60,000       22,175       22,663        19,853      64,692
Motor pump                        item         -       -         13         13         14         40     3,000      120,000       41,183       42,089       46,324      129,596
Other                            amount                                                                             279,501       98,382       100,546     102,758      301,686
Subtotal Small Equipment                                                                                            2,549,601      901,978      918,044      931,733     2,751,755
2. Vehicles
Single cabin pick-up              item         -       -          6          8          8         24    26,W0       624,00       219,642      224,475      229,413      673,530
Double cabin pick-up               item        -       -         26         25         25         76    30,000    2,280,000      823,659      809,404      827,210     2,460,273
Other                            amount                                                                              46,000       42,239        3,238        3,309       48,785
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                                   2,950,W0      1,085,541    1,037,116    1,059,932    3,182,589
3. Light Duty Machines
Dumpertruck                       item         -       -         26         26         25         77    50,000    3,850,000     1,372,765    1,402,966    1,378,684    4,154,416
Truck                             item         -        -         3          2          2          7    45,000      315,000       142,556      97,128       99,265      338,950
Truck for passengers              item         -       -         10          9          9         28    50,000     1,400,000      527,987     485,642      496,326     1,509,955
Crane                             item         -       -          7          7          7         21    40,000      840,000      295,673      302,177      308,825      906,675
Tractor                           item         -        -        14         14         13         41    20,000      820,000       295,673     302,177      286,766      884,616
Tractorwith implement             item         -       -         21         20         20         61    50,000    3,050,000     1,108,772    1,079,205    1,102,947    3,290,924
Tractor + crane                   item                 -         22         22         21         65    30,000     1,950,000     696,942      712,275      694,857     2,104,074
Sprayers                          Rtem         -       -          8          8          8         24     1,750       42,000        14,784      15,109       15,441       45,334
Others                           amount                                                                             185,130       65,164       66,598       68,063       199,825
Subtotal Light Duty Machines                                                                                        12,452,130    4,520,316    4,463,278    4,451,175    13,434,769
4. Heavy Duty Machines
Grader                            item         -        -        19         19         18         56   190,000    10,640,000    3,812,064    3,895,929    3,772,080    11,480,072
Loader(dragline) (tracked)         item        -        -         3          3          3          9   170,000     1,530,000      538,546      550,394     562,503     1,651,444
Loader-wheeled                     item        -        -         8          8          7         23   120,000    2,760,000     1,013,734    1,036,037     926,476     2,976,247
Dozer D4                           item        -        -         7          6          6         19   200,000    3,800,000     1,478,363    1,295,046    1,323,537    4,096,945
Gradall-Bantam excavator           item        -        -        16         16         16         48   300,000    14,400,000    5,068,672    5,180,183    5,294,147    15,543,001
Tracked excavator                 item          -       -         5          4          4         13   150,000     1,950,000      791,980      647,523      661,768    2,101,271
Excavator (wheeled)               item          -                12         12         11         35   170,000    5,950,000     2,154,186    2,201,578    2,062,511    6,418,275
Subtotal Heavy Duty Machines                                                                                        41,030,000    14,857,545    14,806,689    14,603,021    44,267,255
Total                                                                                                                   58,981,731    21,365,378    21,225,126    21,045,862    63,636,367
ANNEX_L. O&M EQUIPM                                                                                                                                                      9/15/97  7:55PM



IBRD 28711
BULGARIA                                                                                      35_R 4b                                                                                            GEORGIA..-                    Z 
*                        ) ~~~~ARMENiA>\,
GREECE           HsrKr ERRA      TUNB    r-f- ---- -.                                                                                                                                    WN     -   K      q                   
k~~ ~            ~~~ -t MASRI J                        Z        A^R4              ,,r/f_                 <7^sl                               ECe_ <                                                        z    REPD OF
XI          I II
v~~ ~   ~            ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                PA<RTICIPATORY PRIVATIZATION OF IRRIGATION
,r pR7  x3 X g ECE\                                                                           S                ts                                MANAGEMENT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
X                                                                 8                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~      ~ ~~~~~~~~~90% IRR,GATION MANAGEMENT   DIRGOSBUDRE
ANKARA                                                                                                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UE  RAILTOSTAO) o TLCTT  ON ATO~ S LAI
fi                MEDITERRANEAN SEA                                                  ,(                                                        SRRALAlN{L                          ECETWSNVLAE
R,                                                                                                                                 01                                                               R     OREGONSWTHS0-TIMAT  PROV,NCE AO TAOS
PRs,wTmzlSALMnygadn              MLES 0          510       Ip          50OV   DIEGOs SITH 0-50%                                                                                                  67NTOACAFITAL
A,donol s hMAIn                                                   .I PR                                                                                    IMTTO WUOO                          PROVINCE30OUNDAMIES
I^S., S555IS,RI 55pl.o Ih* p,,S  NILOMETE95 0  50    160    150    260    250       t                                                                       - S'      ULL30ORUI PILOT DRIP IRR GATlON    NENTOAdUDRE
HWAEGAMAS,  OS,OR.                                                                  I     A        'I                                                             CHMIVRLLTRT
~555M A'm, , pN55. ShAt h                    395                                                                                                                      ME 4D                      Provmce nomes r0r the some as prownceG A D  IOSs
JULY 1997



