Report No. PID10332
Project Name                     Colombia-Second Magdalena Medio (@)
Regional Development Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Community Action Program
Project ID                       COPE57692
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Implementing Agency
Address NATIONAL PLANNING DEPARTMENT
National Planning Department (DNP)
Address: Calle 26 No. 13-19, Bogota, Colombia
Contact Person: Dr. Manuel Fernando Castro,
Advisor to the Director General
Tel: (571) 596-0300
Fax: (571) 339-0221
Corporacion Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio (CDPMM)
Address: Calle 33 No. 6-94, Piso 10, Bogota, Colombia
Contact Person: Dr. Mauricio Katz, Deputy Director
Tel: (057-1) 285-8980, 285-2024
Email: col98008@colnodo.apc.org
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                August 23, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         August 15, 2001 (completed)
Projected Board Date             September 6, 2001 (RVP approval)
1. Country and Sector Background
While Colombia is a country with a long history of political violence,
since the late 1980s the problem has become more widespread, particularly
in rural areas, and is exacting an increasing economic and social toll.
Many areas of the country are under active dispute between guerrilla and
right-wing armed groups referred to as paramilitaries. The current
presidential administration which assumed office in August 1998 put
promotion of peace at the center of its agenda. The Government's
development strategy contained in the National Development Plan (NDP) for
1998-2002, el Cambio para construir la Paz is conceived to promote
conditions to make a viable peace and guarantee its long-term
sustainability. A two track approach to the peace process is being
pursued: (i) at the political, national level negotiations for peace with
various armed groups; and (ii) at the local and regional level pursuing
specific initiatives to build social capital and address the root causes
of violence which have long-standing local dimensions. The NDP recognizes
that while violence and conflict affect the entire country, certain areas
of the country are affected particularly hard. It indicates that one of
the principle factors contributing to increased levels of violence is
political exclusion, poverty and inequality, and argues that peace needs
to be constructed through an integrated economic and social policy.The NDP
includes the outline of a special plan for economic, social and
environmental reconstruction of zones most affected by violence. The



active involvement of civil society organizations (particularly grassroots
community organizations) and alliances between the public and private
sectors, and international organizations is called for. The expectation
is that this plan will generate conditions for achieving peace, by
promoting a participatory model of management at the regional level which
brings together the interests of society and the parties in conflict.
According to the NDP, action in five thematic areas will be supported:
productive processes, promotion and protection of human capital and
humanitarian action, institutional development and strengthening social
capital, construction of infrastructure for peace, and promotion of
environmental sustainability. The critical need for a flexible approach in
carrying out programs in conflictive areas is emphasized.The approach in
the NDP is based heavily on the philosophy and strategy contained in the
Program for Development and Peace in the Magdalena Medio Region (PDPMM)
which was initiated in 1995 with support from the national petroleum
company (ECOPETROL) and the Catholic church. The Magdalena Medio region
does not correspond to a single political-administrative unit. It is
composed of 29 municipalities located in 4 Departments (Antioquia,
Santander, Bolivar and Cesar) which share the following characteristics:
proximity to the Magdalena River and its culture, influence of the
petroleum industry and importance of ECOPETROL, recent settlement (major
influx in the 1950s), inattention (at least until recently) of the
Departments in which the municipalities are located, and a high level of
armed conflict and violence. A majority of the population of around
810,724 live in rural areas or secondary towns, while 36t of the people
live in two cities, Barrancabermeja and Aguachica.The first Magdalena
Medio Regional Development Project (Ln. 4371-CO) which supported the
second phase of the PDPMM (loan approved in June 1998 and closed on
schedule on December 30, 2000) was a pioneering project for both the Bank
and the Government of Colombia: promotion of a community-based,
participatory approach to development and peace in one of the most
conflictive regions of the country. The Government delegated the
implementation to a Consortium composed of a well-respected NGO with
Jesuit roots and the Catholic Diocese of Barracabermeja, the main city in
the region and birthplace of the petroleum industry in Colombia;
counterpart funding was provided by ECOPETROL. Government oversight was
provided by the National Planning Department and through a National
Technical Committee (Consortium, DNP, ECOPETROL, UNDP with the Bank
attending as an observer). The participatory, community oriented
methodology for promoting development in the midst of conflict piloted
under this project proved effective at creating a longer term vision of a
better future for the region, strengthening the region's human and social
capital, mobilizing resources and attention for the previously neglected
region, and starting a community-led process of improving basic services
and investment. The methodology and lessons are now being used by the
Government and others to promote similar regional development programs in
9 other conflictive areas of Colombia.
2. Objectives
The proposed follow-up project will build on the lessons and successes of
the first project, and extend the learning into challenging new areas. The
main purpose of this LIL is to test new forms of managing and operating
the PDPMM which result in: (a) an increase in the influence of citizens
in local and regional development; (b) local institutions which are
responsive and accountable to citizens; and (c) tangible social and
-2 -



economic benefits. In this regard, the project will focus on learning in
four areas involving testing of: new organizational and operational
mechanisms for managing the program (PDPMM) which increase the role of
community organizations, take into account the diverse conditions in the
region particularly the armed conflict, and gradually decrease dependence
on the Corporation for Development and Peace Magdalena Medio (component
1);approaches for strengthening local institutions, both private and
public, to make them more responsive to citizens needs and priorities, and
accountable for their actions (component 2);approaches for implementing
productive projects which increase the probability of their success (for
example, methodologies to help small producers and the poor develop sound
market approaches) and contribution to the economic and social development
of the region (component 3); andapproaches to developing and implementing
social initiatives which respond to the needs of vulnerable communities
(extreme conditions of poverty and impact of armed conflict) and serve as
a vehicle that eventually permits these communities to move on to pursue
integrated and sustainable development initiatives (component 4). The
project will pave the way for the next (fourth) phase of the PDPMM which
will be more ambitious in terms of the poverty and peace objectives,
amount of funding, and the leadership role of communities. The long-term
objective of the PDPMM remains: increased social capital and empowered
citizens lead to a significant reduction in poverty and increase in
peaceful coexistence in the Magdalena Medio Region.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
This section not required for a LIL.
4. Description
The project has four components, each associated with a specific learning
area: Program Leadership and Increased Role of Communities (US$3.41
million), Strengthening of Local and Regional Institutions (US$0.89
million), Productive Subprojects (US$1.75 million), and Social Subprojects
in Vulnerable Communities (US$0.30 million). Components 1 and 2 focus on
increasing the community role in program management and capacity to
influence local affairs. Components 3 and 4 relate to generating tangible
social and economic benefits from productive and social projects.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 6.35   (of which 5.0 IBRD loan and 1.35 counterpart
funding.
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over a period of three years under
arrangements which proved effective during the first project. The
National Planning Department (DNP) is responsible for the project with the
assistance of a National Technical Committee established under the first
project. The Corporation for Development and Peace for Magdalena Medio
(CDPMM) will be the project implementing agency. Implementation
mechanisms which proved successful under the first project would be
continued with some adjustments: annual operating plans, semi-annual
monitoring and evaluation reports, external evaluation by independent
entity, and an operating manual to guide the development of subprojects.
7. Sustainability
-3-



This section not applicable for a LIL.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
This project builds on the lessons of the first project which was
pioneering for the Bank and Colombia. The participatory, operational model
for promoting development piloted under the first LIL functioned well in
the complex, conflictive environment of the region. The model is
characterized by the following basic elements:it is sustained by a change
agent (the CDPMM) which enjoys high credibility among all the
stakeholders;it is based on community and individual participation in the
making of decisions about the community's development, and establishes
specific mechanisms for this participation (e.g. the nucleos of the
citizen's network, municipal proposals, and project initiatives);it is
based on a methodology that takes into account the capacity and 'initial
state' of the citizens, and from this base initiates the learning and
capacity building of community organizations so that they are able to take
charge of their own development. Further, it recognizes and supports
existing organizations and previous experiences in these communities;it
encourages communities to define a long-term development strategy for
their community, municipality and region, while supporting "learning by
doing" around more concrete and immediate goals and actions;the change
agent (CDPMM) operates in a decentralized manner;the change agent's staff
(CDPMM) act consistently in accord with defined values of respect,
transparency, autonomy, and defense of the public interest.One of the
lessons in applying this approach was that increasing the capacity of
individuals and communities to take charge of their own development,
particularly in a conflictive climate, takes more time than originally
expected particularly to develop their ability to prepare and implement
specific investment projects which translate into increased incomes and
better standards of living. The latter will be a focus for the follow-up
project. Other key lessons of the first project are the need for
flexibility and continuous learning when promoting a participatory
approach in such a complex environment, and to expect a substantial
variation in the rate of implementation and development depending on the
varied conditions in different parts of the region. The follow-up project
will test operational mechanisms that take into account the differentiated
conditions and implementation rates.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project does not raise any major environmental
issues and no adverse environmental impact is expected; nor does the
project have expected impacts related to involuntary resettlement,
indigenous peoples, or cultural heritage. In regard to subprojects
financed under components 3 and 4 (accounting for 30% of Bank funding),
screening procedures based on best practice for social funds which were
included in the Operating Manual and applied by the CDPMM under the first
project will be utilized and updated for the second. In any cases where
Colombian law requires an environmental license to carry out a subproject,
the CDPMM will ensure that the license has been obtained prior to
providing funding for implementation of the subproject. For any
subprojects requiring environmental assessments, the community
organization sponsoring the subproject will be involved in preparing the
terms of reference, overseeing the work of the consultants, discussing the
-4 -



studies' findings, and agreeing on and implementing the mitigation plan
(if one is required). Thus, the entire process will involve consultation
with stakeholders.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Elsie B. Garfield
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-5007
Fax: 202-522-3540
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the Infoshop during the week ending August 31, 2001.
- 5 -



