Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22840-CO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
SECOND MAGDALENA MEDIO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 20, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALEN 1 S
(Exchange Rate Effective July 2001.)
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso
1.0 Colombian peso = US$ .000434
US$ 1.00 = 2305 Colombian pesos
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Colombia: January 1 -December 31 World Bank: July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CDPMM        Corporation for Development and Peace Magdalena Medio
(Corporacion para Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio)
CTN          National Technical Committee (Comite tecnico nacional)
DNP          National Planning Department (Departamento Nacional de Planeacion)
Ecopetrol    National Petroleum Company (Empresa Colombiana de Petroleo)
ECOR         Core Team (Equipo de coordinacion y orientacion regional)
ELN          National Liberation Army (Ejercito nacional de liberacion)
ETP          Subregional Community Development Team (Equipo tecnico pedagogico)
FIP          Peace Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversiones para la Paz)
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
LIL          Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PDPMM        Program for Development and Peace of the Magdalena Medio Region
(Programa de Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio)
PMR          Project Management Report
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Director:    Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director:   John Redwood
Sector Manager:   Shelton Davis
Sector Leader:    Adolfo Brizzi
Task Team Leader:   Elsie Garfield



COLOMBIA
SECOND MAGDALENA MEDIO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. LIL Justification                                                                                                                                              Page
1.   What is to be learned  (why the piloting)? ....................................................................2
2. How are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives and any follow-on operation)?                                                                  4
3.  Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise ................................                                                      5
B. Structure of the Pilot
1.   How  will the learning  take place? ........................................................................5
2.   Outcome-level test to be conducted ........................................................................5
3.   Steps Involved  in  Implementing  the  Pilot ........................................................................5
4.   Learning  Expectations to be Documented  in the Pilot ..........................................................5 
5.   Triggers for a Follow-on  Operation ........................................................................6
6.  Results-based Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements .....................................................                                                   6
C. Components and their Implementation Arrangements
1.  Project components ........................................................................7
2.   Implementation  arrangements ........................................................................7
a. Procurement .......................................................................                                                                     8
b. Financial Management ........................................................................8
c. Other ........................................................................8
D. Risks
1.   Social and  Environmental Risks ........................................................................8
a.  Safeguard  Policies ........................................................................8
b. Other social risks ........................................................................9
2.  Other Risks ........................................................................9
E. Main Loan/Credit Conditions
1.   Effectiveness Conditions .......................................................................                                                           11
2. Other .......................................................................                                                                                11
F. Readiness for Implementation .......................................................................                                                              11
G. Compliance with Bank Policies .......................................................................                                                              12
Annexes
Annex 1.   Project Design Summary .......................................................................                                                             13
Annex  1a.   Project Monitoring  Baseline  and  Targets ......................................................................                                        13
Annex 2. Project Description .19
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .23
Annex 4. Financial Management .24
Annex 5. Project Processing Schedule .26
Annex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .27
Annex 7. Documents in the Project File .31
Annex 8. Statement of Loans and Credits .32
Annex 9. Country at a Glance .34



MAP(S)
Map IBRD 29517 ----------------------------------------------6- -



COLOMBIA
Second Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSER
Date: September 20, 2001                          Team Leader: Elsie B. Garfield
Country Manager/Director: Olivier Lafourcade       Sector Manager/Director: John Redwood
Project ID: P057692                                Sector(s): MC - Community Action Program
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Social Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
PrIogramFinancing Data                                                      77-;7
[X] Loan     [ ] Credit   [ Grant       [ ] Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $5.0
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 9.5                         Years to maturity: 12
Cfommitment fee: 0.85% on undisbursed balance first 4    Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
years, 0.75% thereafter, beginning 60 days after signing
:Finanzcing P.lan (U.SSm)-:    Source                        Local .o:ig T.:-:tal.-:
BORROWER                                                        1.35           0.00           1.35
IBRD                                                            5.00            0.00          5.00
Total:                                                          6.35           0.00           6.35
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Responsible agency: NATIONAL PLANNING DEPARTMENT
National Planning Department (DNP)
Address: Calle 26 No. 13-19, Bogota, Colombia
Contact Person: Dr. Manuel Femando Castro, Advisor to the Director General for Special Investments
Tel: (571) 596-0300           Fax: (571) 339-0221            Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Corporacion Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio (CDPMM)
Address: Calle 33 No. 6-94, Piso 10, Bogota, Colombia
Contact Person: Dr. Mauricio Katz, Deputy Director
Tel: (571) 285-8980           Fax: (571) 285-2024            Email: col98008@colnodo.apc.org
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
2002~2003          24
0 F2<-      3                                    :-. .-..:;. : 
Annual    2.00        2.00        1.00
Cumulative    2.00        4.00       5.00
Project implementation period: 2001-2003
Expected effectiveness date: 10/12/2001  Expected closing date:  02/28/2004
XOS PAD Rn  R, U-l 2000



A. LIL Justification
1. What is to be learned (why the piloting)?
Background. The Program for Development and Peace of the Magdalena Medio Region (PDPMM) was
initiated in 1995 with support from the National Petroleum Company (Ecopetrol) and the Catholic Church.
The Magdalena Medio region does not correspond to a single political-administrative unit; it is composed
of 29 municipalities located in 4 Departments with a population of 810,724 of which the majority (64%)
live in rural areas and secondary towns. Poverty indicators show a situation substantially worse than in the
country as a whole: 32% of the population live in absolute poverty (11% nationally); the Unsatisfied Basic
Needs index averages 56% for the region's municipalities (30% nationally); 26 of the 29 municipalities
have a quality of life index indicating poorer living conditions than the departments in which they are
located and well below the national average; and the illiteracy rate is 20% compared to a national rate of
9%. Homicide is the primary cause of death in the region, with a rate well above the national average.
Lessons and Impact of the frwst LIL. The first Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project (carried
out under the responsibility of the National Planning Department and financed by the Government of
Colombia through Ln. 4371-CO and other direct funding from the central government's budget,
complemented by counterpart funding provided by Ecopetrol) supported the second phase of the PDPMM
and tested successfully a participatory, community oriented methodology for promoting development in the
midst of conflict. The operational model tested is characterized by the following basic elements:
*  it is sustained by a change agent (the Corporation for Peace and Development Magdalena Medio,
CDPMM) which enjoys high credibility among all the stakeholders;
*  it is based on community and individual participation in the making of decisions about the community's
development, and establishes specific mechanisms for this participation (e.g. the nucleos of the
citizen's network, municipal proposals, and project initiatives);
*  it is based on a methodology that takes into account the capacity and 'initial state' of the citizens, and
from this base initiates the learning and capacity building of community organizations so that they are
able to take charge of their own development. Further, it recognizes and supports existing
organizations and previous experiences in these communities;
o it encourages communities to define a long-term development strategy for their community,
municipality and region, while supporting "learning by doing" around more concrete and immediate
goals and actions;
*  the change agent (CDPMM) operates in a decentralized manner; and
*  the change agent's staff (CDPMM) act consistently in accord with defined values of respect,
transparency, autonomy, and defense of the public interest.
Another important aspect of the model recognized by the Govemment as a key project lesson is that
regional development and building conditions for peace can be led by a regional (non-public) entity using
public funds, an arrangement which permits flexibility for effective resource management and a more fluid
communication with communities. The participatory methodology and operational model tested under the
first project proved effective at creating a longer term vision of a better future for the region, strengthening
the region's human and social capital, mobilizing resources and attention for the region, and starting a
community-led process of improving basic services and investment. The most striking achievement was the
increase in human and social capital: 170 organizations involving 8,625 persons have internalized the
vision and goals of the program. The capacity of the CDPMM, the NGO leading the program, was
substantially increased, as evidenced by its ability to operate in the increasingly complex situation in the
region, to mobilize and effectively use US$7.0 million, and to assist communities with 67 subprojects with
- 2 -



tangible results in terms of increased capacity of the organizations promoting them. The first project's
impact goes beyond its achievements in the Magdalena Medio region. It has contributed to: (i) the
Government's thinking and strategic approach to development in conflictive regions (including the
delegation of implementation to a respected third party); (ii) Colombia's image and the ability to raise funds
to support the peace process; (iii) initiation of regional development programs based on similar principles
in other regions of Colombia; and (iv) a new way of working for the Bank, Government, and other key
participants including communities characterized by a learning mode and partnerships.
As indicated above, the first LIL achieved its objective of increasing capacity of communities and the
CDPMM. A key lesson of this experience was that increasing the capacity of individuals and communities
to take charge of their own development, particularly in a conflictive climate, takes more time than
originally expected particularly the ability to prepare and implement specific investment projects which
translate into increased incomes and better standards of living. The use of a step by step approach which
starts with the existing capacity of the people involved revealed that the beginning of a participatory
process like this one is much slower than anticipated, but that the speed increases as people and
organizations gain self-confidence and self-esteem. Through the first project, the CDPMM developed a
method for providing technical assistance that empowers producers and organizations: the participants
began to understand the concept of a value chain, to find their place in such a chain, to assess their capacity
and their shortcomings. Through this process, participants become more capable of articulating an effective
demand for services and technical support. In addition, during the course of the first LIL, it was decided to
move toward supporting larger somewhat more complex productive projects (mainly agroindustrial)
covering more than one municipality, because the CDPMM believed that this type of project would have.a
greater impact on regional development and also serve to bring several organizations together thus
reinforcing the process of creating and strengthening social capital in the region. As a result of the time
required for this learning process and the increased complexity of the proposed projects, while the first LIL
successfully contributed to identifying and developing productive initiatives with good potential to improve
incomes and living standards, these subprojects never fully entered the investment phase. The second LIL
will focus on learning how to successfully implement productive projects in a way that continues the
empowerment process.
Likewise, under the first project via support for development of the municipal proposals, the development
of the regional planning system, and support for education and health initiatives in the context of national
policies for each sector, progress was made to involve municipal administrations and local institutions in
the PDPMM. However, much work remains which will be undertaken under the second LIL to further
develop and consolidate the first project's innovative approach of building more responsive local
institutions by increasing citizen and community knowledge and capacity--building informed demand--to
create a constituency for better government and local institutions (in contrast to the usual approach of
focusing on the institutions themselves and providing training and other resources with the assumption that
they want to be more responsive but simply lack the means). This would be complemented by direct
support to interested municipal govemnments and local institutions.
Rational for a second LIL. A second LIL is warranted due to the: (i) pioneering nature of the PDPMM
which requires a flexible and continuous learning approach; (ii) the challenging and unpredictable
environment in the Magdalena Medio region stemming from the evolution of the armed conflict at the
national and regional level; and (iii) the challenging new learning areas which need to be pursued. The
strategic focus of the follow-up project is to empower communities, build the sustainability of the
PDPMM, and mitigate risks by institutionalizing and rooting the PDPMM in local and regional institutions
(public and private) with a particular focus on the municipality. The idea is to gradually shift the locus of
decision-making and leadership of the PDPMM from the CDPMM to local and regional actors with
- 3-



communities playing a lead role. The second project will draw on the state of readiness achieved under the
first project to move fully into an investment mode which produces tangible social and economic results.
Project objective and learning areas. The main purpose of the second LIL (project development
objective) is to test new forms of managing and operating the PDPMM which result in: (a) an increase in
the influence of citizens in local and regional development; (b) local institutions which are responsive and
accountable to citizens; and (c) tangible social and economic benefits. In this regard, the project will focus
on learning in four areas involving testing of:
* new organizational and operational mechanisms for managing the program (PDPMM) which increase
the role of community organizations, take into account the diverse conditions in the region particularly
the armed conflict, and gradually decrease dependence on the Corporation for Development and Peace
Magdalena Medio (component 1);
*  approaches for strengthening local and regional institutions (private and public) so that they respond
better to citizens' needs and priorities, and are accountable for their actions (component 2);
*   approaches for implementing productive projects which increase the probability of their success (for
example, methodologies to help small producers and the poor develop sound market approaches) and
contribution to the economic and social development of the region (component 3); and
-  approaches to developing and implementing social initiatives which respond to the needs of vulnerable
communities (extreme conditions of poverty and/or impact of armed conflict) and serve as a vehicle
that eventually permits these communities to move on to pursue integrated and sustainable development
initiatives (component 4).
2. How are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives and any follow-on operation?
Document number: R99-201   Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/18/1999
The project will contribute to the CAS objective of promoting peace and development through a focus on
the socioeconomic determinants of violence. The recently completed LIL was one of the first lending
operations in this new area of Bank assistance to Colombia, identified by government authorities and civil
society representatives as Colombia's number one development priority and incorporated as such in the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to the Board November 6, 1997 (R97-233). As noted in the
CAS Progress Report presented to the Board two years later (R99-201, November 18, 1999), the
importance of the PDPMM and Bank assistance in this area increased when a new presidential
administration took office in August 1998 with peace as its central objective. The National Development
Plan (NDP) for 1998-2002, presented a two track approach to the peace process: (i) at the political,
national level negotiations for peace with various armed groups; and (ii) at the local and regional level
pursuing specific initiatives to build social capital and address the root causes of violence which have
long-standing local dimensions. As indicated above, the CDPMM defined and tested under the first LIL a
community development approach which is the key source of the government's thinking about how to
promote development in conflictive regions and which has inspired such programs in 9 other areas of
Colombia.
The long-term objective of the PDPMM remains: increased social capital and empowered citizens lead to a
significant reduction in poverty and increase in peaceful coexistence in the Magdalena Medio Region. The
results of the second project will pave the way for the next (fourth) phase of the PDPMM which will be
more ambitious in terms of the poverty and peace objectives, amount of funding, and leadership role of
communities and local institutions. In addition, since the PDPMM is Colombia's pioneering program in
peace and development, the lessons will be used by the peace and development programs initiated in other
areas of the country and will contribute to the on-going process of defining the national strategy for
- 4 -



promoting peace and development. Although the PDPMM's achievements in the midst of the current
circumstances in the region are fragile, and the ability to achieve its ambitious long-term objectives is
subject ultimately to the broader process towards peace and security in Colombia, the Government believes
that the PDPMM has contributed to this broader process. The proposed project can not resolve the armed
conflict, but it continues the work started under the first project to create conditions to facilitate dialogue
among contending parties, set in motion a process for addressing some of the underlying reasons for the
conflict, and prepare the way for a post-conflict intervention.
3. Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise.
The promising results and lessons of the first project which are described above (see fuller discussion in
ICR No. 22452 of June 2001) indicate the enormous promise of the PDPMM's approach. The lessons of
the Rwanda: Community Reintegration and Development Project (IDA Cr. 3138) presented in the
Mid-Term Review of March 2001 also indicate that this approach is promising, that capacity building
takes more time than initially expected, and that communities can assume more direct responsibility for
decision-making and management.
B. Structure of the Pilot
1. How will learning take place?
A learning mode pervaded the first project, and will continue and expand to additional stakeholders, such as
municipalities, in the second. Learning by doing, reflection over actions and continuous feedback will take
place throughout project implementation. Since each project component constitutes a learning area (Annex
2), the M&E of the quantitative and qualitative indicators in the logical framework will indicate changes in
behavior over time. The M&E system (see Section B-6 below) will regularly measure and report on
progress and success.
2. Outcome-level test to be conducted
The hypotheses to be tested (stated in the project development objective and result for each component)
concern how to manage and operate the PDPMIM to achieve certain results as explained in Section A-1
above, and Annexes 1 and 2.
3. Steps involved in conducting the pilot
The project will be carried out in accord with the LIL Implementation Plan and the Annual Operating Plans
of which the first, 2001 Plan will be approved as a condition of loan effectiveness. The Operating Manual
and CDPMM's Policies and Procedures Manual set forth the organizational and operational changes which
will be tested under the project. While the basic approaches to be tested have been defined and are indicated
in Annexes 1 and 2, some of the details particularly for components 3 and 4 will be further developed
during the first year of the project (for example, alternative financing mechanisms for productive projects).
A critical step in launching the new project is the "induction" of the CDPMM's staff in the project's
learning objectives; the new organization, policies and procedures of the CDPMM; and the approaches to
be tested. Then, with a strong role of the subregional community development teams (ETPs), induction of
the organizations, institutions and individuals involved in the project will be carried out. This process will
place particular emphasis on the M&E system and formative evaluation; subsequent training and
learning-by-doing will build this capacity.
4. Learning expectations to be documented in the pilot
1 Economic    D Technical    M Social         3 Participation
Z Financial    1 Institutional  1 Environmental E Other
- 5-



5. Triggers for a follow-on operation
The success of the LIL will be assessed relative to the objectives and indicators in the logical framework
(see Annex 1); the second external evaluation will serve as an important, independent source for this
assessment. A follow-on operation to support the next phase of the PDPMM would be justified if the LIL
has fulfilled its objectives. The PDPMM is a long-term program involving various partners including local
communities and municipal governments, so irrespective of whether the Bank decides to support a
follow-on operation, it is expected that the lessons of this LIL will be utilized and that the other partners
including the central government will continue their involvement in the PDPMM.
6. Results-based Monitoring and Evaluation System
The monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system builds on the system developed, put into operation and tested
during the first LIL. It incorporates lessons and modifications derived from the first project as well as
changes motivated by the specific approach and objectives of the second. The three main objectives of the
system are to: (i) contribute to the creation of social capital and technical capacity of the organizations and
people involved in the project and PDPMM; (ii) regularly provide information for the decision-making of
the CDPMM; and (iii) evaluate the project (as a whole) and the larger program of which it is a part.
The monitoring, evaluation and learning system under the LIL will consist of the following components:
* formative evaluation, to develop and consolidate the capacities of nucleos and community
organizations to prepare, monitor and evaluate the efficiency, efficacy and outcomes of specific plans
and subprojects for which they are responsible. This capacity can then be applied in other contexts
such as citizen oversight committees, monitoring of municipal development plans and the like.
*   technical evaluation by the CDPMM to generate regular information on outputs, processes and
outcomes of the project and program for the use of the CDPMM, citizens and institutions (particularly
municipalities) in the region, and donors; this would include the systematization of the qualitative and
quantitative information produced by the formative evaluation component; and
* external evaluation carried out by an independent institution to provide a global assessment of project
and PDPMM progress and impact.
The project places a strong emphasis on formative evaluation, and incorporation of the M&E system into
the structure of the CDPMM and program. The M&E responsibilities and roles of each unit in the
CDPMM and organizations participating in the PDPMM have been defined and M&E has been made an
integral part of the participatory methodology. The CDPMM's monitoring and evaluation team (formed
during the first project) is responsible for providing technical support and training to the other CDPMM
units so that they carry out effectively their M&E role, and for carrying out key technical M&E and
reporting functions. The M&E team reports to the Deputy Director of the CDPMM and is composed of 5
persons: a coordinator, two specialists in participatory evaluation methods and working with communities,
and two specialists in quantitative methods of data collection and analysis. The coordinator is responsible
for the conceptualization, operational orientation and expansion of the M&E system in the region. The
coordinator will also coordinate the preparation of the two external evaluations, and identify information
sources and take measures required for the completion of an evaluation baseline for the project and for the
PDPMM. According to a training-of-trainers and learning by doing approach, formative evaluation and
data collection will be carried out by the subregional community development teams (ETPs) at the
subregional and local levels. The M&E team will train and supervise the ETPs' work in M&E, the ETPs
will in turn train M&E groups of nucleos and cormmunity organizations. M&E instruments and feedback
loops for reporting to nucleos, organizations and CDPMM units have been developed and tested during the
first LIL.
-6 -



The CDPMM will prepare semi-annual M&E reports. The first report (December 2001) and subsequent
mid-year reports (June 2002, June 2003) will focus on progress implementing the LIL in specific
dimensions (ETPs, nucleos, subprojects) drawing heavily on the formative evaluation. The annual M&E
reports (December 2002 and December 2003) will provide an overall assessment of the progress and
achievements of the project with specific reference to the indicators in the logical framework. The two
external evaluation reports will be prepared as inputs into the project's mid-term review (September 2002)
and assessment at completion (September 2003). In addition, these reports will be complemented by other
methods (such as videos, case studies and workshops) of documenting and disseminating the lessons and
accomplishments of the project. The National Technical Committee will play a critical role in the
discussion and analysis of the outputs of the M&E system, and in the preparation of the final report on the
project's achievements (ICR).
C. Project Components and Implementation Arrangements
1. LIL Components
The project has four components, each associated with a specific learning area. Components 1 and 2 focus
on increasing the community role in program management and capacity to influence local affairs.
Components 3 and 4 relate to generating tangible social and economic benefits from productive and social
subprojects. A description of each component is contained in Annex 2.
Indida tiank-  |     of
mpnnt                 $eforCoss                        fitnancing Bn-
Xh -e t'                                                                Ba=_;kUS$M)   -Total  (US$M) fnancing-
1. Program Leadership and Increased    Community       3.41      53.7       2.66      53.2
Role of Communities                Action Program
2. Strengthening of Local and Regional Institutional   0.89       14.0      0.84       16.8
Institutions                       Development
3. Productive Subprojects          Community           1.75       27.6      1.36      27.2
Action Program
4. Social Subprojects in Vulnerable  Community         0.30        4.7      0.14       2.8
Communities                        Action Program
Total Project Costs                   6.35     100.0       5.00     100.0
Front-end fee                    0.00       0.0       0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                     6.35     100.0       5.00     100.0
2. Implementation Arrangements
The project will be implemented over a period of three years under arrangements which proved effective
during the first project. The National Planning Department is the government agency responsible for the
project. The National Technical Committee (CTN)--presided by DNP and composed of the Bank, UNDP,
Ecopetrol, the Colombian Agency for International Cooperation (ACCI), and the CDPMM--will oversee
the project as well as play a role in orienting and coordinating efforts related to the broader PDPMM. As in
the case of the first project, the Government through DNP has designated the CDPMM, an NGO whose
founding members are the Center for Research and Popular Education (CINEP) and the Catholic Diocese
of Barrancabermeja, to be the project implementing agency. The CDPMM's internal organization includes:
a Director and his staff, a Deputy Director, a core team (ECOR), an administrative and financial team, and
8 subregional teams with small offices. The subregional teams are part of the subregional community
- 7 -



development teams (ETPs) which include community members who are not employees of the CDPMM; the
nucleos--a voluntary association of citizens and organizations in each municipality--will continue to play an
important role in the PDPMM promoting priority development plans (Municipal Proposal), investments
and actions.
The detailed terms of the project implementation arrangements will be spelled out in the Administration and
Execution Contract (a condition of loan effectiveness) which is to be signed by DNP, CDPMM, Ecopetrol,
UNDP and ACCI. Under this contract and in accord with the Implementation Agreement, the CDPMM
will be responsible for the key project management functions under the guidance of DNP and the National
Technical Committee. Under the contract, UNDP will administer project funds (loan and counterpart funds
provided by Ecopetrol) as it did for the first project.  The implementation mechanisms which proved
successful under the first project will be continued with some adjustments under the second: annual
operating plans, semi-annual monitoring and evaluation reports, external evaluations by an independent
entity, and an operating manual which sets the ground rules for approving and implementing nucleo plans
and subprojects. In addition, the CDPMIM's Policies and Procedures Manual will serve as a guide to ensure
its efficient functioning.
a. Procurement
An assessment of the CDPMM's capacity to implement procurement actions for the project was found to be
satisfactory, and overall project risk for procurement is judged to be average (assessment approved by the
Regional Procurement Advisor on June 5, 2001). The type of procurement to be carried out under the LIL
is expected to be simple and follow Bank guidelines only. As indicated above, the Government has decided
to continue UNDP's role in the second project; the ACCI and UNDP have reached an agreement whereby
-VNDP's administrative fee provided for under the terms of the Administration and Execution Contract will
be covered by them. The agreed procurement arrangements and action plan can be found in Annex 6.
b. Financial Management
The UNDP (funds administrator) and CDPMM (implementing agency) are responsible for managing the
project funds under the terms agreed in the Administation and Execution Contract.  A Financial
Management Specialist conducted a review of the financial management of the CDPMM in July 2001, and
found the systems and personnel adequate for the purpose of implementing the project. Loan funds will be
disbursed directly into UNDP's New York account. Project Management Reports (PMRs) will not be
required for this project and disbursements will be made on the basis of SOEs. Details of the financial
management and disbursement arrangements are presented in Annexes 4 and 6.
c. Other
D. Risks
1. Social and Environmental Risk
The key risks related to this project stem from the context in which it is being carried out as discussed in
Section 1 b and 2 below. The operational model tested under the first project proved effective in this
context.
a. Safeguard Policies
The project does not raise any major environmental issues and no adverse environmental impact is
expected; nor does the project have expected impacts related to involuntary resettlement, indigenous
peoples, or cultural heritage. Project components 1 and 2 (accounting for 70% of Bank funding) do not
entail any actions which might have negative impacts, and social subprojects (component 4) will be very
- 8 -



small with minor if any environmental impacts. Productive subprojects (component 3) may have
environmental impacts. In regard to subprojects, screening procedures based on best practice for social
funds which were included in the Operating Manual and applied by the CDPMM under the first project will
be utilized and updated for the second. The CDPMM will employ an environmental specialist to carry out
the screening of subprojects, help develop the terms of reference and oversee environmental assessment
studies if they are required, review the studies and mitigation plans (if needed) with the community
organizations concerned, and provide technical support and supervise the implementation of the plans. In
any cases where Colombian law requires an environmental license to carry out a subproject, the CDPMM
will ensure that the license has been obtained prior to providing funding for implementation of the
subprojects.  For any subprojects requiring environmental assessments, the community organization
sponsoring the subproject will be involved in preparing the terms of reference, overseeing the work of the
consultants, discussing the studies' findings, and agreeing on and implementing the mitigation plan (if one
is required). Thus, the entire process will involve consultation with stakeholders.
Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
b. Other Social Risks
The project is being carried out in a situation of on-going conflict which is very unpredictable. The
CDPMM is very aware of the risks related to the continuing conflict in the region and country, and the
particularly difficult situation in specific parts of the Magdalena Medio region. This is a particular concern
for the southern Bolivar Department where the Government and ELN agreed that parts of two
municipalities would be declared a demilitarized zone where peace negotiations would take place; this has
been violently opposed by the paramilitary forces currently occupying the area and by civilian groups (who
experienced the control of the ELN for thirty years) some of which have ties to these forces. The situation
has been at an impasse for more than six months, and recently the Government announced the suspension
of its dialogue with the ELN alleging the ELN's lack of flexibility. However, Colombian civil society
organizations, the Catholic Church, and members of the international community are talking to the two
sides to convince them to reinitiate talks as soon as possible. A positive development over the last few
months in the region and southern Bolivar in particular is greater international involvement and presence of
national institutions. The CDPMM is aware that it needs to act very carefully in this difficult environment
where perceptions of various stakeholders are often distorted and extreme. See Section 2 below for a
discussion of the risk management strategy.
2. Other (external, reflecting the failure of the assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Community organizations and CDPMM          S         The CDPMM is building on its successful
are unable to establish communication                approach under the first project to maintain a
mechanisms and direct contact with the               continuous dialogue with the diverse actors,
diverse actors in the region in order to             regularly monitor the socio-political dynamics in
manage the conflict in the subregions.               each subregion/municipality, and adjust and
modulate its activities and approach. The
systematic involvement of citizens is a critical
means of reducing this risk. The CDPMM's
strategy is being strengthened for the new
project as the situation has become more
complex (see below).
-9-



The confidence generated between           M         This is related to the first risk which might have
communities, organizations and the                   an impact on relations due to fear stemming
representatives of the PDPMM is                     from an increase in violent acts and intimidation
weakened/not maintained.                             by armed groups. This will be closely monitored
by the CDPMM.
Municipal authorities oppose the           M         In most municipalities, the CDPMM and
orientation and concrete work of the                 PDPMiM are accepted and relations are
PDPMM.                                               cooperative. Project component 2 is part of a
strategy to build common interests and stronger
links with municipal authorities as both a goal
and a risk management strategy. In the
exceptional cases where the situation is very
polarized, the CDPMM has looked for ways to
improve communication and identify common
interests; sometimes, in rare cases, it must wait
patiently for conditions to improve.
Subproject activities are delayed or       M         Under the first project, UNDP, DNP and the
canceled due to delays in arrival of funds.          CDPMM learned the importance of avoiding
this problem and developed mechanisms for
handling disbursements in a timely manner
which will be applied in this project. CDPMM
is adopting improved budgeting and cash flow
management procedures.
There is substantial involuntary           M         This risk is also tied to evolution of the armed
displacement of persons involved in                  conflict; it will be managed as part of the overall
subproject activities.                               strategy described below including strengthening
of community organizations. It is expected that
this phenomenon would be restricted to certain
localities.
From Components to Outputs
Members of the nucleos and subregional     S         Relates to risk 1 above. CDPMM to help them
community development teams (ETPs)                   develop increased capacity and take actions to
face significant interference due to the             anticipate and handle these problems.
on-going conflict.
Counterpart funds not available when       M         Relates to risk 4 above.
needed.
Producer associations, municipalities and  M         Experience under the first project demonstrated
other entities (including financial) do not         the capacity of CDPMM and PDPMM to
commit resources to cofinance the                    mobilize cofinancing.
productive projects.
Overall Risk Rating                        S         Learning is expected to be high for this project.
The risks relate to the extent of learning and
achievements if the armed conflict escalates to
an acute stage throughout much of the region.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 10 -



Some of the key elements of the CDPMM's strategy for managing the risks to the project and PDPMM
stemming from the complex environment in the region are:
*   seek the presence and involvement of the international community in the region including close relations
with agencies of the UN system (for example, UNDP has opened an office in Barracabermeja);
*   work closely with state authorities particularly local governments and key agencies of the national
government while maintaining the CDPMM's autonomy;
*   decentralize the CDPMM's operating structure and promote greater involvement of persons and
organizations outside the CDPMM in decision-making about the PDPMM in accord with widely
disseminated, transparent rules contained in the Operating Manual;
*   constant dialogue and monitoring of the situation within CDPMM  and with participants in the
PDPMM, and an agreed process for taking decisions about how to react to various situations which
may arise;
* strengthen communications (internal and external) and press relations to ensure consistent and accurate
messages about the CDPMM and PDPMM; and
*   direct dialogue as appropriate with key actors in the region.
Concerning the Bank's reputational risks, it is fair to say that the Bank has gained considerable benefits
from its involvement with the first project and the PDPMM which is perceived by the Government, civil
society and other donors in a positive way. Good project supervision will be ensured by following
supervision practices which proved effective under the first project: (i) working with a highly reputable
NGO, fully responsible for carrying out the project, which has shown the capacity to manage the difficult
conditions in the region; (ii) regular feedback in the form of annual operating plans and semi-annual M&E
reports; and (iii) independent, professional assessments of the project's implementation and results/impact
by Colombian experts (annual financial and procurement audits including field visits, two external
evaluations). This will be complemented by staff visits to the region when possible.
E. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Submission of the following which are found satisfactory to the Bank: CDPMM's Manual of Policies and
Procedures, Operating Manual, Administration and Execution Contract, Annual Operating Plan for 2001.
2. Other (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.)
Disbursement: retroactive financing for expenses made on or after January 1, 2001.
F. Readiness for Implementation
El 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
X 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
1 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
IZ 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 11 -



GDPMMs Maml Of PtL;4is  d PVc=fres, OpM l duMa, Mins i azaTdE=Wotn Coact
A.ual Opwratig Plan for 2001
G. Compliance with Bank Pollcle6
1  1. This projea cot Liao wfi Wil pplicable Ba=k pol0sb.
O02.Th o1owm$  ecepfon to BItpolicies aro imoonow~a tbr appToVI rhe p?oject cswlios wt
afl otbr applcable   k poicies.
EilsieB. Ga«id                 A    Radri                                iO4
Team LaMar                J"-~  SectorWMAnager                  Country Managet
.12'



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
COLOMBIA: Second Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project
Key-Pe fonmance
Hirarchy of    erive              Ii r               M  nins
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Promote peace and                                     CAS Progress Reports
development through a focus
on the socioeconomic
deterninants of violence
Joint Assessments by DNP
and the Bank
Follow-on Development
Objective:
Increased social capital and   Increase in number of  Report on PDPMM Baseline  The Government will pursue
empowered citizens lead to a  households with increased    CDPMM's M&E Reports    initiatives at the national and
significant reduction in  income and assets generated                            international levels to reduce
poverty and increase in    via productive activities                             armed conflict and promote
peaceful coexistence in the    supported by the PDPMM                            peace.
Magdalena Medio (MM)
Region
Increased coverage and     CDPMM's annual reports on  Other Bank supported
quality of health and basic   the PDPMM               projects/programs (such as
education services                                    peasant enterprise zones,
productive partnerships for
peace, rural education and
youth development) are
successful.
More tust and solidarity   CDPMM's M&E Reports        Projects for peace and
between citizens and                                  development financed by the
municipal authorities                                 Peace Investment Fund (FIP)
and other donors are
successful.
Human Development Index   UNDP/Mision Social Human
Development Report for
Colombia
- 13-



Project Development       Outcome I Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Demonstrate new forms of    % of leaders and members of External Evaluation Reports  The government maintains its
managing and operating the   community organizations                          political and financial support
PDPMM which result in:    involved in the project who                         for the PDPMM.
a) an increase in the influence consider that they have
of citizens in local and  increased their capacity to
regional development,    influence public affairs
b) local institutions which are
responsive and accountable to
citizens,
c) tangible social and
economnic benefits.
Principal forms to be tested:  % of municipalities that have  Reports of the M&E unit  The armed actors respect the
decentralized CDPMM,      incorporated projects and  Semi-Annual reports on   process of participatory
subregional community     actions from the Municipal   Formative Evaluation   development.
development teams (ETPs),  Proposal of the nucleo into
promoting alliances of   their municipal development
community organizations with plan
other local and regional
institutions, strengthened
nucleos at the municipal level.
# of municipal            CDPMM's Annual project
administrations that produce, progress reports
at least once a year, reports on
the implementation of the
municipal development plan
that are made available to
citizens
Increased capacity and    Documentation through
autonomy of organizations as videos and other audio-visual
measured by the Participation media
and Organization Index (IPO)
Increase in the revenues and  External Evaluation Reports
assets of households which
are members of productive
associations being support by
the LIL
- 14 -



Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. CDPMM has transferred % of persons involved in the  External Evaluation Reports  Community organizations and
capacities and shared     project who perceive an                             the CDPMM establish
decision-making with      increase in their participation Reports of the M&E unit    communication mechanisms
organizations in the region  in important decisions of the                     and direct contact with the
through:                  CDPMM                      Annual Operating Plans    diverse actors in the region in
a) Director's Committee with                                                   order to manage the conflict
representation of the     # of agreements and contracts CDPMM's Annual project   in the subregions.
subregional CD teams (ETPs) made by community       progress reports
deciding on PDPMM's       organizations with entities                          The confidence generated
policies and financing;   other than the CDPMM                                 between communities,
b) Core Team (ECOR)                                                            organizations and the
effectively providing technical At least 5 subregional CD                      representatives of the
and pedagogical support to   teams (ETPs) have                                 PDPMM is maintained.
the subregional CD teams;    mechanisms established and
c) ETPs created, trained,  operating well for
managing resources and    representation and shared
assisting nucleos,        decision-making between the
organizations and         CDPMM and representatives
municipalities in participatory of community organizations
planning-evaluation;      and public/private entities of
d) Forms of cooperation with  the subregion
local organizations in special
areas are established and  Annual plans of nucleos,  Minutes of meetings. Annual
operating;                ETPs, and CDPMM use       nucleo, ETP and CDPMM
e) Representative nucleos    information generated by the  Plans
(municipal level) operating   M&E system
with mechanisms for shared
decision-making;
f) M&E system operating
satisfactorily.
- 15 -



2. Tested and effective    At least 10 municipalities  Reports on formative      Municipal authorities do not
approaches to promoting    have access to data bases  evaluation                 oppose the orientation and
local and regional         generated by the project                              concrete work of the PDPMM.
institutions (public and   managed by local civil     Reports external evaluation
private) which respond     servants                                              The municipalities of MM at
better to the public interest,                        Self-evaluation reports of the  least maintain or increase
through:                   At least 15 nucleos have   nucleos and ETPs           expenditures on health and
a) Municipal administrations  norms on representation and                        basic education.
have data base and         participatory decision-making Documentation in the form of
information on their      that are formalized and     videos and other audio-visual
management and the quality  operating well            media
of life in the municipality,
accessible to civil servants    At least 10 nucleos have
and citizens;              formulated and agreed on
b) Nucleos have influenced    elements of the Municipal
the policies, plans and    Proposal with municipal
programs of the municipal    authorities and other public
administration and other   entities
entities through the Municipal
Proposals which were       At least 5 health oversight
prepared in a participatory    committees have broadened
manner;                    their actions to other areas of
c) Citizen oversight       public administration
mechanisms (veedurias
ciudadanas) in the health  At least 20 nucleos and 15
sector are consolidated and    organizations preparing
expand their actions to other  periodic self-evaluation
areas of public administration reports
in the municipality;
d) the regional planning   # of agreements between
system is an effective     CDPMM and municipalities,
mechanism for consultation   and amount of resources
on regional development    contributed by municipalities
plans and policies;
e) Local and regional
cormnunity-based
organizations strengthened in
their intemal functioning,
management capacity and
relations with others;
f) Nucleos and organizations
managing projects are
regularly practicing
self-evaluation;
g) Alliances and agreements
with municipal
administrations and other
executing agencies for
education, productive projects
and planning processes.
- 16 -



3. Tested and effective    Increase in financial resources CDPMM's Annual project    Subproject activities are not
approaches for the         (not those of CDPMM) for    reports                     delayed or canceled due to
development and            productive subprojects                                  delays in receiving funds.
implementation of                                      M&E reports on productive
productive projects with a   # of agreements between   projects                    There is not substantial
high probability of success   CDPMM or the producer                                involuntary displacement of
in accord with the need for    organizations and public or   Feasibility studies and  persons involved in subproject
key factors for success /inputs private entities for the  business plans for productive  activities due to armed
(technology, inputs,       provision of critical factors for projects              conflict.
marketing, entrepreneurial    productive subprojects
capacity, finance) in accord
with the 4 areas identified:
small peasant farms,
agroindustrial development,
small town economies, and
integrated approaches in
strategic
regions/micro-regions.
4. Tested and effective     At least 2 social subprojects of CDPMM's Annual project
approaches for developing   integrated attention for   reports
and implementing social    communities affected by the
projects with communities in armed conflict carried out in   M&E Reports on social
conditions of extreme      partnership with other entities projects, including case
poverty and affected by the                            studies
armed conflict, as a vehicle   At least 3 social subprojects
for moving them toward     demonstrate links to a
integrated and sustainable    long-term development
development processes      process
-17 -



g                                                : .:.   C:  4    ;: Xa:i A;: : p n4 _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . .   . . . . .
Project Components I          Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:               (from Components to
Sub-components:               component)                                                   Outputs)
1. Program Leadership and   US$3.41 million                 Following reports are for all 4 Members of the nucleos and
Increased Role of                                           components:                    ETPs can work without
Communities                                                                                significant interference
Annual Operating Plans and   despite the on-going conflict
semi-annual M&E reports
CDPMM's Annual Report on
the project progress
External Evaluation Reports
Annual Financial Audits
Disbursement Reports
2. Strengthening of Local and  US$0.89 million              See above
Regional institutions
3. Productive Subprojects     US$1.75 million               See above                      Counterpart funds available
when needed
Producer associations,
municipalities and other
entities (including financial)
commit resources to cofmance
the projects.
4. Social Subprojects in      US$0.30 million               See above
Vulnerable Communities
-18 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
COLOMBIA: Second Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project
The main purpose of the project is to demonstrate new forms of managing and operating the PDPMM
which result in: an increase in the influence of citizens in local and regional development, local institutions
which are responsive and accountable to citizens, and tangible social and economic benefits. Each of the
project components described below constitutes a key learning area for which lessons will be documented.
The primary beneficiaries of the project in termns of the tangible benefits will be citizens, community
organizations and municipal governments in the region, with particular attention to the poor living in rural
areas and poor urban neighborhoods.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$3.41 million
Program Leadership and Increased Role of Communities. This component will support the CDPMM's
program leadership role, and test new organizational and operational mechanisms for managing the
PDPMM which increase the role of community organizations, take into account the diverse conditions in
the region particularly the armed conflict, and gradually decrease the dependence on the CDPMM. Under
this component, the CDPMM will transfer capacity and share decision-making with organizations in the
region through testing the following: (a) a new organizational structure in the CDPMM, the core team (
Equipo de Coordinacion y Orientacion Regionale-ECOR) which combines community mobilization and
technical project support functions; and delegation based on clear criteria of certain responsibilities and
functions to the subregional community development teams (Equipo tecnico pedagogico-ETP); (b)
involving community representatives in decision-making about the PDPMM's policies and financing
(representatives of subregional community development teams (ETPS) which include persons who are not
staff of the CDPMM participate in the CDPMM Director's Committee which makes key decisions about
subprojects to be financed etc.; and subregional community development teams (ETPs) have authority to
manage resources and make certain decisions about the PDPM:M in accord with criteria in the Operating
Manual; (c) supporting the nucleos (municipal level) efforts to become more representative and put in place
mechanisms for shared decision-making; and (d) forms of cooperation with social organizations in special
areas of strategic importance to the PDPMM (two have been identified). In addition, the M&E system will
be strengthened and serve as a critical element in evaluating the project's progress in meeting objectives, as
well as a tool for promoting learning and capacity building of the CDPMM, organizations and individuals
involved in the PDPMM. Finally, support will be provided for preparing a new phase of investment under
the PDPMM.
This component covers the core costs of the CDPMM in its role of program leadership and project
manager: the incremental costs of the offices in Bogota, Barrancabermeja, and the 8 small subregional
offices including the costs of essential full-time staff, consultant services (including the annual financial and
procurement audits, two external evaluations, administrative fee to UNDP) and fees related to partnerships,
training, study tours and workshops, equipment, and operating costs. Operating costs include incremental
expenditures related to day-to-day administration of the project such as rents, utilities, fuel, office supplies,
maintenance, communications (including telephone, telex, postal and internet provider services),
transportation including travel expenditures. The costs enumerated above include the costs of the staff and
activities of M&E team including possible requirements for surveys/data collection.
Project Component 2 - US$0.89 million
Strengthening of Local and Regional Institutions. This component which is closely related to the first
component will test approaches for promoting improvements in local and regional institutions (both public
and private) so that they respond better to the public interest and are accountable to communities. The
- 19 -



following approaches to improving the functioning and accountability of local and regional institutions,
with particular attention to the municipality, will be tested: (a) support to municipal governments to
develop a data base and information on their management and the quality of life in the municipality,
accessible to civil servants and citizens; (b) develop the capacity of nucleos (part of PDPMM's citizens
network at the municipal level) to influence the policies, plans and programs of the municipal
administration; (c) consolidate the citizen oversight mechanisms in the health sector which were initiated
under the first project and expand their actions to other areas of public administration in the municipality;
(d) consolidate the regional planning system initiated under the first project so that it contributes to
agreement on regional development policies and plans; (e) strengthen the internal fanctioning, management
capacity and external relations of local and regional organizations particularly those that are community
based; (f) develop the capacity for self-evaluation (formative evaluation) of nucleos and organizations
managing projects; (g) promote capacity of local organizations to make alliances or agreements with
municipal administrations and other entities for carrying out planning and investment projects. Funds
would be provided for technical assistance, training, and contracts with partner agencies. In addition, funds
will be transferred to nucleos to finance their annual nucleo plans in accord with criteria and procedures in
the Operating Manual.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.75 million
Productive Subprojects. This component will identify and test effective approaches for the development
and implementation of productive projects which have a high probability of success. It will draw on
lessons from the first LIL about developing these type of projects and about the appropriate role of the
CDPMM in supporting such initiatives. The focus of the component is on identifying and testing ways of
ensuring that organizations and producers have access to the key factors and ingredients for a successful
productive project including technology, production inputs, marketing, entrepreneurial and management
capacity, and finance. This will be explored for four thematic areas identified during the first project as
being economic activities which involve the poor and/or which hold out good potential for widespread
economic and social benefits in the region: small peasant farms (finca campesina), agro-industrial
production, small town economies, and integrated approaches in strategic regions/micro-regions. The
rationale for supporting each thematic area and the types of subprojects to be supported are described
below.
i Concerning small peasant farms, the region contains approximately 48,000 such farms (varying in size
from 2 to 20 hectares) which provide a livelihood for around a third of its population. Subprojects for
small peasant farms would aim to improve the economic viability and standard of living of small
farmers (organized in associations) through funding of technical advice, inputs, small equipment, and
capacity building to consolidate their organization and business knowledge (e.g. managing the purchase
of inputs, access to credit and marketing their products).
*   Agro-industrial projects based on small peasant farmers offer important potential for developing the
region. Agro-industrial subprojects would aim to improve incomes and employment by supporting
organizations of small farmers to embark on new productive activities (e.g. palm oil, industrial yuca) or
improve the productivity of existing activities (e.g. cacao) through funding of: technical studies,
technical assistance, purchase of inputs and equipment, and capacity building to improve business
skills and to consolidate their organization so as to establish partnerships with agro-industrial firms.
*   Small town economies and the small businesses that predominate there are a key source of employment
and income for town dwellers, and offer important opportunities for linking up with economic activities
in rural areas such as supplying inputs and purchasing produce. Subprojects for small businesses in
small towns aim to improve the productivity, profitability and sustainability of these businesses (e.g.,
-20-



brick producers, furniture makers) by providing organizations of producers and businesses funding for
training in business skills, technical advice including access to market informnation, seed capital,
equipment and inputs.
0  The strategic regions are primarily rural and peasant farming predominates. Due to certain social
characteristics, they are treated separately and in an integrated way. The type of subprojects to be
supported will be defined in greater detail during project implementation, but may include technical
support for land titling, productive inputs (seeds, equipment), technical assistance and training to
improve the productivity of small farmns, and capacity building of farmers organizations.
The beneficiary contribution for each subproject would be no less than 10-20% and, unless otherwise
agreed with the Bank, no transfer provided by the CDPMM to finance an individual subproject will exceed
US$100,000. The CDPMM's Operating Manual (an expanded version of the one used under the first
project) defines these roles, the norms for CDPMM and producer association involvement, and the
procedures for project processing and implementation.
The majority of investment funding for productive subprojects will be provided by sources other than the
LIL preferably loans from the banking sector; funding of the Investment Fund for Peace (FIP) and other
donors is also envisioned. However, given the difficult conditions in the region, some other alternatives may
need to be developed as part of the learning under the project, one of which may be promoting the
development of micro-finance services. In regard to the alternatives to be explored, it has been agreed that
the CDPMM would not be directly involved in managing and administering a credit scheme, and that no
funds from the Bank loan would be used for a line of credit. To summarize, project funds will be provided
for: contracting of consultants and experienced entities to undertake studies and provide technical
support-business development services, study tours, training, and funds (transfers) to cover part of the cost
of specific projects which are described above.
Project Component 4 - US$0.30 million
Social Subprojects in Vulnerable Communities. This component will test approaches to developing and
implementing social initiatives/projects which respond to the needs of communities who are vulnerable due
to extreme conditions of poverty and/or severe impact of the armed conflict with the aim of serving as a
vehicle that eventually permits theses communities to move on to pursue integrated and sustainable
development initiatives. All subprojects would have a goal of increasing the capacity of the community
groups involved, of which many are expected to be women's groups located in isolated rural communities,
and to help them reach out to other entities such as the municipality to get access to services. The type of
subprojects eligible for funding would address critical basic needs including:
*   food security through funding of projects to increase food production including seeds, tools, technical
assistance, capacity building of the organization;
*  primary health through funding to reactivate and strengthen a network of community leaders interested
in health matters, provide training in preventive health practices and provision of simple services and
advice, provision of small lot of simple medicines and, in some cases, basic equipment like scales for
weighting babies; and
*  basic education through funding for training of primary school teachers, teaching materials, activities
with students such as establishment of a school garden to serve as a teaching vehicle, and, in some
cases, some minor improvements in school facilities (e.g. latrines).
-21 -



These subprojects are expected to be quite small ranging from US$5,000 to US$20,000 and include a
beneficiary contribution of between 10%, primarily in kind. Funds would be provided for contracting the
services of the partner agencies to assist communities develop and implement the subprojects, and for
transfers to finance specific subprojects. The Operating Manual defines the detailed procedures for
processing and implementing these subprojects. Due to the subproject size, nature and target group, these
projects would not be subject to the more rigorous criteria concerning economic returns and sustainability
required for projects financed under component 3.
- 22 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
COLOMBIA: Second Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project
See table in Section C. 1.
- 23 -



Annex 4: Financial Management
COLOMBIA: Second Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project
A LAC Financial Management Specialist carried out the required financial management assessment in
accordance with OD/BP 10.02 in July 2001. DNP has, under the terms in the Administration and
Execution Contract, delegated to UNDP (funds administrator) and CDPMM (the implementing agency) the
responsibility for managing the project funds  Financial management of the project will be the
responsibility of the CDPMM under the leadership of the Financial and Administrative Coordinator. A
review of the CDPMM found the systems and personnel adequate for the purpose of implementing the
project. The CPDMM will maintain the accounts for the project in accordance with the Government's cash
accounting systems. The accounting system contains the following features: (a) application of consistent
cash accounting principles for documenting, recording, and reporting its financial transactions; (b) a chart
of accounts and a coding system that allows meaningful summarization of financial transactions for
financial reporting purposes; (c) the use of an asset register; (d) monthly closing and reconciliations of
accounts and statements; and (d) the production of annual financial statements acceptable to the Bank. The
system will contain project-specific procedures including the project budget, and management of a project
bank account.
The CDPMM's accountant who reports to the Financial and Administrative Coordinator is responsible for
managing and consolidating the accounts. Project expenditures will be recorded and reported by the
CPDMM's Financial and Administrative Unit, based on the accounts maintained by it including the
information from the field about project activities and from UNDP concerning funds it receives and
payments it makes directly on behalf of the CDPMM. Details of the flow of funds and guidelines for each
of the administrative and financial management procedures will be contained in the CDPMM's Policies and
Procedures Manual. The consolidated project accounts will be prepared by CDPMM with provision of
pertinent information by UNDP. The annual financial statements will include, at a minimum, the following
documents: (a) a Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds; (b) uses of Funds by Project Component and
Expenditure Category; (c) Summary of Disbursement Activities including SOEs disbursements, and (d)
notes to the financial statements. On a six month basis, starting December 31, 2001, the CPDMM will
submit a cash flow report in dollars on project expenditures by category of expenditure and by project
component, in order to permit a regular assessment of how the financial management system is working.
Detailed documentation will be retained by the CDPMM and UNDP for inspection during supervision
missions and for audit by the independent external auditor.
As was the case for the first project, the Bank will accept the CDPMM's Revisor Fiscal as the external
auditor of the project accounts, as long as this is a firm acceptable to the Bank. A single audit report on
the project's annual financial statements will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end
of the CDPMM's fiscal year (January-December). The report will include an opinion on the financial
statements as well as opinions on the eligibility of the expenditures reported on the SOEs, transactions from
the UJNDP Account, and the internal control system. The audit shall be conducted in accordance with
auditing standards and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The CDPMM will also submit to
the Bank its audited financial statements presented to its members each March/April in accordance with
Colombian law.
It has been agreed that by loan effectiveness, the project will have the following accomplished:
*  Adoption by the CDPMM of a Policies and Procedures Manual satisfactory to the Bank, including: (i)
definition of CDPMM's functions and detailed operational procedures; (ii) defined link of procedures
with the integrated financial information system; (iii) the internal control system for project staffing,
- 24 -



transactions, accounting, auditing, reporting, procurement and financial management; and
*   Chart of accounts defined in accord with Bank requirements.
The following plan of action for strengthening financial management will be carried out as part of the
Operating Plan for 2001:
* Put in place the system of internal controls which supports a system of management by results
(October 31, 2001);
* Prepare a training program concerning financial and administrative management for the CDPMM staff
and organizations managing project funds (October 31, 2001);
*   Complete implementation of the training program (December 31, 2001); and
*  Prepare an Assets and Inventory Management and Control System and produce an actualized registry
(December 31, 2001).
-25 -



Annex 5: Project Processing Schedule
COLOMBIA: Second Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        6                          8
First Bank mission (identification)               12/06/2000                  12/06/2000
Appraisal mission departure                       07/01/2001                 08/15/2001
Negotiations                                     08/20/2001                  08/28/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     09/15/2001                  10/12/2001
Prepared by:
CDPMM and World Bank team, with support from the National Planning Department.
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Elsie Garfield                     Team Leader
Jairo Arboleda                     Deputy Team Leader, Social Development
Natalia Gomez                      Project Officer, Rural Development
Manish Bapna                       Productive Projects/Business Development
Daniele Giovannucci                Productive Projects/Business Development (consultant)
Anders Rudqvist                    Monitoring and Evaluation (consultant)
Carmen Palaco Nielsen              Procurement
Luis M. Schwarz                    Financial Management Specialist
Mariana Montiel                    Lawyer
Issam Abousleiman                  Disbursement Officer
Santiago Sandoval                  Team Assistant
Scott Guggenheim                   Peer Reviewer
Comelis de Haan                    Peer Reviewer
- 26 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
COLOMBIA: Second Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project
Procurement
Procurement arrangements for the project take into account the following critical factors: the need for
timely procurement in order to implement the project in less than 3 years; the PDPMM's underlying
approach of working in partnerships which entails identifying partners already working in the region or
with a unique experience and set of qualifications; the region's reputation which may discourage interest in
working there; and the need for consultants that have sufficient knowledge of the region and experience
working in areas of conflict to avoid problems.
Procurement: organization and capacity. The CDPMM, a well-respected private non-profit entity, will
implement the project on behalf of the Government and with support from UTNDP under the terms of an
Administration and Execution Contract (this contract is similar, but goes beyond the normal terms of a
Nationally Executed Cost Sharing Project); the Government and UNDP have reached an agreement
whereby the administrative fee for the contract will be covered by resources other than the loan. CDPMM
has gained experience through implementation of the first LIL (Ln. 4371-CO). The Financial and
Administrative Coordinator is responsible for managing procurement activities and has an adequate staff to
do so. The CDPMM's overall capacity to implement procurement measures is considered satisfactory, and
the risk is average; the assessment was approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor's Office on June 5,
2001.
The following key actions regarding procurement are required from CDPMM and will be conditions of
Loan Effectiveness: (i) inclusion in the CDPMM's Manual of Policies and Procedures a definition of
procurement responsibilities, procedures and methods with annexes of standard contracts and internal
forms; (ii) updating the Operating Manual concerning procurement and other requirements for subprojects,
specifying the need to compare prices to the extent possible; (iii) preparation of terms of reference for the
yearly procurement audit; and (iv) updating of the Procurement Plan for the first year of implementation.
In addition, since the new project involves a gradual decentralization of functions to the CDPMM's 8
subregional offices, training will be provided at project initiation. This will ensure that CDPMM is able to
provide communities with needed guidance and adequate supervision.
The project will not use PMR-based disbursements.
Procurement Plan. An indicative procurement plan for the entire project has been prepared. A more
detailed Plan for the first year of operation is being prepared and will be ready in draft form by Loan
negotiations. The Plan will be subsequently updated, as part of the Operating Plan 2001, by Loan
Effectiveness.
Procurement Supervision. Yearly post-review of procurement documentation would be conducted at
CDPMM's headquarters or, depending on the circumstances at the time, at their office in Bogota. To
supplement the fiduciary control, an audit of procurement documents will be done yearly by an external
auditor. Given the strong participation by the beneficiary communities and the openness which has been
characteristic of the CDPMM's mode of operation, this is considered adequate.
Procurement Methods and Thresholds. The type of procurement to be carried out under the LIL is fairly
simple: (i) contracts for goods will be awarded through shopping procedures at local or national level; (ii)
consultant services and training are estimated to range between $5,000 and $70,000. Contracts with
firms/NGOs or other entities will follow the Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications method, with
the exception of contracts for the areas of education, regional planning system, health, etc. which may be
- 27 -



awarded on a sole-source basis, up to an aggregate amount of $250,000 Training expenses will include:
training materials, training facilities rentals, facilitator fees, and meals and travel expenses including per
diem for participants. Individual consultants would be selected in accordance to paragraph 5.1 through 5.3
of the Consultant Guidelines; this group includes the CDPMM personnel managing and implementing the
Project. Transfers to communities for financing subprojects and nucleo plans are not included in the stated
aggregate amounts.
Prior Review. The first two contracts with firms awarded through Consultants Qualification method,
regardless of amount and all single-sourced contracts; and all contracts with individuals valued at $50,000
or more.
Transfers to Communities for Subprojects. The Project includes $1,730,000 to finance subprojects
proposed by the communities. Individual transfers will not exceed $100,000 and are expected to finance
small goods, works and services; beneficiaries will provide counterpart financing, mostly in kind.
Procurement procedures will be specified in the Operating Manual; these will be simple, requiring price
comparison of three price quotations whenever feasible. Technical assistance will also be contracted by the
communities; most of the technical assistance is expected to be sole-sourced from consultants, NGOs and
other entities familiar with local conditions and with presence in the area. CDPMM will monitor and
authorize a priori, at the time of subproject proposals, any direct contracting whenever warranted. They
will also be responsible for supervision of procurement actions and for providing guidance and training to
the beneficiary communities. The Operating Manual will outline clear responsibility for decision making
within the communities and establish requirements which provide for transparency in the use of resources.
- 28 -



TABTLE A: Procurement Plan
(IJS$ million equivalent)
Estimated    Procurement ---   Dates --------
Description                            Cost         Method    Award   Completion
Goods: Computer and office equipment     0.03
and furniture (3 packages)        (0.03)        Shopping     2001          2003
Consulting Services and Training: *
Technical assistance and training
related to capacity building,      0.25
M&E and auditing: Firms, NGOs     (0.20)        CQ           2001          2003
Technical assistance and training  0.25
for capacity building: Firms, NGOs   (0.20)     SS           2001          2003
Technical assistance, training and  2.17
Project administration: Individuals    (1.97)   Chapter V    2001          2003
Operating expenditures**                 0.95         N/A           2001          2003
(0.80)
Transfers to finance subprojects         2.70          Operating    2001          2003
and nucleo plans                         (1.80)       Manual
Total                              6.35
(5.00)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. Costs include contingencies.
2/ CQ - Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications, SS - Single-Source Selection in accordance to
paras. 3.8-3.11 of the Consultants Guidelines.
* TORs for consultant assignments estimated at $20,000 or more would be submitted to the Bank for
review.
** Includes financing of rent, utilities, fuel, office supplies, maintenance, communications, transportation
and travel expenditures related to day-to-day administration of the Project.
- 29 -



Disbursement
Table B: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expe00X40 ii000000 nditw   ae gor  Amou0000--iigi004;i igg nt int U $m   1i e00 Won gg  Fi000;0000nancing  Perent ge gg;0 0040000
1. Goods (except as covered by 3 and 4     0.03                         90%
below)
2. Consultant services, audits and         2.30                         100%
training (except as covered by 3 below)
3. Goods, works, services and operating     1.73            100% of transfer amount disbursed
costs financed by Transfers
4. Operating costs (except as covered      0.75                          85%
by 3 above)
5. Unallocated                             0.19
Total Project Costs                        5.00
Interest during construction       0.00
Front-end fee         0.00
Total                                      5.00
Loan funds will be disbursed directly into UNDP's New York account in accord with the terms of the
Administration and Execution Agreement and with the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Counterpart
funds from Ecopetrol will also be managed by UNDP and disbursed into UNDP's local account in
Colombia. Project Management Reports will not be required for this project and disbursements will be
made on the basis of SOEs based on standard Bank procedures. Full documentation for expenditures under
contracts requiring the Bank's prior review will be submitted with the corresponding applications.
Disbursement for goods contracts below US$30,000, consulting firm contracts below US$70,000 and
individual consultant contracts below US$50,000 would be made on the basis of SOEs. Retroactive
financing will be allowed for expenditures made by the CDPMM or its predecessor the Consortium for
Peace and Development Magdalena Medio on or after January 1, 2001 up to an amount not to exceed
US$500,000; a portion of the counterpart funds have already been disbursed and utilized.
- 30 -



Annex 7: Documents in the Project File*
COLOMBIA: Second Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
LIL Implementation Plan.
Annual Operating Plan-2001 (condition of loan effectiveness).
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Jairo Arboleda, Social Assessment, August 2001.
Carmen Nielsen, Procurement Capacity Assessment, May 30, 2001.
Luis Schwarz, Aide Memoires of Financial Management Assessment Missions of April 2001 (dated May
7, 2001) and July 2001 (dated August 20, 2001).
Implementation Completion Report (Rpt No. 22452) on Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project,
June 27, 2001.
C. Other
*Including electronic files
- 31 -



Annex 8: Statement of Loans and Credits
COLOMBIA: Second Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project
24-Sep-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                 disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                           IBRD         IDA                   GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.          Orig   Frm Revd
P040109        2001 CO PUBLIC FINANC. MANAGEMENT PROJECT II               35.47       0.00                  0.00        0.00      35.47       0.00       0.00
P063317        2001 COLOMBIA HIGH ANDES                                    0.00       0.00                 15.00        0.00      14.87       1.07       0.00
P069964        2001 CO- Human Capital Prot.- Cash Transfers              150.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00     150.00       0.00       0.00
P044140        2000 CARTAGENA WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE                     85.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00      75.75      26.47       0.00
P050578        2000 CO- RURAL EDUCATION                                   20.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00      18.78       3.32       0.00
P057326        2000 SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT                  5.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00       4.41      -0.59       0.00
P068762        2000 CO- COMMUNITY WORKS (MANOS A LA OBRA)                100.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00      96.00      22.00       0.00
P065263        2000 EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY                                  225.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00     103.86      47.19       0.00
P050576        1999 CO- YOUTH DEVELOPMENT                                  5.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00       3.03       3.03       0.00
P006891        1999 CO- ANTIOQUIA EDUCATION                              40.00        0.00                  0.00        0.00      28.57      17.79       1.75
P053243        1998 PEASANT ENTERPRISE Z                                   5.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00       2.80       2.14       0.00
P046112        1998 CO- PASTO EDUCATION                                    7.20       0.00                  0.00        0.00       3.57       2.74       -0.03
P006861        1998 CO URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE                              75.00        0.00                  0.00        0.00      57.32      26.16       0.00
P006884        1997 FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT                         15.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00       9.01       9.01       0.00
P040102        1997 REG.REF.TA                                            12.50       0.00                  0.00        0.00       5.31       4.98       0.00
P006887        1996 POWER MARKET DEVELOPMENT & ENERGY (TA)              249.30        0.00                  0.00        0.00       4.39       4.39       4.39
P039291        1996 URBAN ENVIRONMENT TA                                  20.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00       2.00       2.00       -0.78
P006894        1996 SANTAFE I (Water/Supply)                            145.00        0.00                  0.00        0.00      44.87      43.86       0.00
P006880        1995 AGRICULTURE TECHNOLO                                  36.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00      12.66      12.66       -5.44
P006893        1995 ENERGY TECHNICALASSISTANCE                            11.00       0.00                  0.00        0.00       0.47       0.47       0.00
P006866        1994 CO- SECONDARY EDUCATION                              90.00        0.00                  0.00        0.12       0.12       0.24       0.24
Total:     1331.47        0.00                15.00         0.12      673.25     228.92       0.13
- 32 -



COLOMBIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity    Quasi   Partic
1969/85/88/93/95   CF de] Valle                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1974/01            Cementos Caribe                 4.05    10.00    0.00   12.95    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1963/90            Coltejer                        6.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.02    0.00      0.00    0.00
1995/99            Corfinsura                     25.00    0.00    25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    25.00    0.00
1999               Harken                        30.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1987               PRODESAL                        0.00    0.59    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.59      0.00    0.00
1977/89/92/94/96   Promigas                        6.88    0.00    0.00    14.58    6.88    0.00     0.00    14.58
1994/95            Promisan                        0.00    0.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.23      0.00    0.00
1996               Proyectos                       0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00      0.00    0.00
1997               Suleasing                     24.82    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.25    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               Surenting                       0.00    5.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50      0.00    0.00
2001                Tolcemento                     3.33    0.00     0.00    10.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       100.10    20.92         25.00    38.20    15.15    8.32    25.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2001               CHMC                              0.00     10.00     30.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00     10.00     30.00      0.00
-33 -



Annex 9: Country at a Glance
COLOMBIA: Second Magdalena Medlo Regional Development Project
Latin    Lower-
PQVJERTY and SOCIAL                                               America   mriddle-
Colormbis   & Carib.   Income         Development diamond*
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                            42.3        516       2,046                   Life expectancy
NIper capita (Attas method, US$)                        2.020      3,680      1.140
GNI (Atlas method, UStAlillions)                           85.3       1,895     2,327
Average annual growth. 1994-00
Population  %                                                1.9        1.6        1.0
Labor farce. (1)27                                                      2.3        1.3      GNI                                 Gross
per                               primary
Most(recent estlmato (1atest year avaIlable, 1994.00)                                       rapita                          enrollment
Urban: popiulation (% of total population)                   74         75         42
Life expectancy at birth, (years)           .70                         70         69
Infant mortalty ipet I.)006 live bit ts)                     23         30         32
Child onanutritlo6Y(1 of ctdldren under 5)                    8           9         11    ~      Access to Improved water source
Accasato an IMproved water source (16 of population)         91         85         80
Illiteracy (  of Donulation age 1,5+)                         8.         12.       15.
Grossprimary enrollment (16 of sphool-art*pO.oulatlon).     113        113        114                 Colombia
Mate                                      ~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~113  .. 116  -------Lower-middle-income group
Fernale                                                   112          ..       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LQNG-TERM TRENDS
1980      19090      1999       2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (JS billions)                                33.4      4.          84.8       81.3
Gross domestic investnientlGDP                   19.1      18.5        12.5       12.2
Exports'Ofqoods and soevices/GDP                 16.2      20.6        18.6       21.9Trd
Gross domesticsiavingslGOP                       19.7      24.2        12.5       13.7
Gross natlonat savinasiGOP                       196       21.86       10.5       11.9
Current account batancelGDP                       0.3       1.         -0.2  .    -0.2      Dmsi 
Interest DovmentslGDP                             0.~9      3.9         2.8        2.5                                     Ivsmn
Total debt/GDP~                                  20.8      42.8        40.7       443       saig
Total debt servIcelexports                       15.1      40.9        43.5       47.9
Present value cotdebtlGDP                           .             . 39.7
present Vralve ordebtIexports                       .         ..      221.8
Indebtedness
1980-90  11990-00      1899       :2000   20-04
(average annual growth)
GOP           .               3.~~~~~~           ~~~~6 3.0  -4.1  2.8    4.7           "'""Clma
GDP par capita .       ..1.5    .1.1                        -5.7        1.0        2....9...Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services           7.5       5.3       4.7         5.3   ..4.4
STRUCTURE ot the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                        ~~~~~1980   1990        1999       2000       Growth of Investment and GOP(%
Agriculture                                      19.9      16.7        13.8       13.8        K.0
Industry                                         32.5      37 9        28.1       30.5      2
Manufacturing                                  23.9      20.6        13.7       13.8      -20                  97                0
Services                                         47.6      45.4        58.1       55.7      4
Private consumption                              70.2      66.4        64.4       68.1     _60
General government consumption                   10 1       9.4        23.1       18.2                ""    GD1"-GDlGDP
Imports otfgoods and services                    15.6      14.8        18.6       20.4
(average annual growth)                       1980-90  1990-00        1999       2000       Growth of exports and Imports(%
Agriculture                                       2.9      -2.2         0.2        5.2      3
Industrv                                          5.0       1.7        -9.0        3.8     16
Manufacturinq                                    3.5      -2.3      -10.2        9.3 
Services                                          3.1       4.3        -1.1        1.9    0        5      96    97 _1.659  l0O
Private consumption                               2.6       2.6        -4.5        6.5      1
General government consumption                    4.2       9.5         3.9      -14.5    .30
Gross domestic investment                         1.4       2.1       -38.3       15.2              ".'-Exports    --*-mports
Imports of ooods and services                     0.4       9.4       -22.3        5.8
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) COMpared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 34 -



Colombia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1980    1990        1999     2000      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                       50
Consumer prices                             26.4    32.4        9.2       8.8    40'
Implicit GDP deflator                       27.6    28.6       10.2      10.7    30
20
Govemment finance                                                                10
(% of GDP, includes current crants)                                               0
Current revenue                                ..    15.8      12.7      12.1            95   96   97   98   99
Current budget balance                         .      6.8      -4.9      -5.3               GDP deflator  .'O"'CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..      3.9      -7.5      -6.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1980    1990        1999     2000      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                        4,255    7,139    11,569   13,115    20,0C0
Coffee                                   2,361    1,415      1,324    1,069
Petroleum                                  101    1,951      3,757    4,569    15.000
Manufactures                               973    1,759      3,947    5,190                 *   *
Total imports (cif)                        4,663    5,589    10,659   11,538     m
Food                                       296      245      1,426    1,428     5,000
Fuel and energy                            564      330       252       234                    liIII
Capital goods                            1,616    2,034      3,651    3,414        0 -              a        A  
Export price index (1995=100)                  7      61        194      243
Import price index (1995=100)                  5      56        161      201                U Exports     NImports
Termns of trade (1995=100)                   126      110       121      121
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1980    1990        1999     2000      Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports ofgoods and services               5,747    8,687    13.866   15,608      0
Imports of goods and services              5,597    7,089    13,408   14,301
Resource balance                             150    1,597       457     1,307
Net income                                  -211   -2,080    -1,422   -2,429
Net current transfers                        16     106         75       90      -
Current account balance                      105     544        50       732     -4
Financing items (net)                      -430       53        502     -737    -s1
Changes in net reserves                      325    -597       -322      869    -6
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..    8,103    9,006
Conversion rate (DEC, hocallUSS)            47.3   502.3   1,756.6  2,087.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990       1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       6,940   17,222    34,538   35,968
IBRD                                      991    3,859      1,960    1,920    |:3965   A:1,960
IDA                                        21       15          8        7               G  ,6      :190B 
Total debt service                           951    3.889     6,611    7,888                                  D 4252
IBRD                                       144     751        390      370
IDA                                         0        1          1        1                                    E ,7
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              8      35        103
Official creditors                         280     -40        970      275
Private creditors                         531    -155       2,502     -415
Foreign direct investment                  157     500      1,109    2,247
Portfolio equity                             0       0         25       17               F: 22,883
World Bank program
Commitments                               351      536        591      350      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             218      213        511      265      B-IDA    D-Othermultilateral  F-Private
Principal repayments                       66      435        271      244      c- IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                  152    -221        241       21
Interest payrnents                         79      318        121      127
Net transfers                              73    -539         120     -105
Development Economics                                                                                               9/7/01
- 35 -






MAP SECTION






COLOMBIA                                                                                     x  AGRICULTURA                             AGUAS
4WI  PESCA                                 CARBbN
EL MAGDALENA MEDIO
SUS MUNICIPIOS Y SUS RIQUEZAS                                                                                                   GANADO                              CAPITALES
4     PALMA                               CARRETERA PAViMENTADA
80 KILOMETERS                         ARENAS SILICIAS                     ViA SIN PAVIMENTAR
o
BOSQUES                             IERR.CARRIL
lh, - d.
f Ih. -Id -k                     B-d        .69-  -p P,P-d by od-d                                      4      ORO
lh 1-1,-  f                   G--  pbk6d T. R--  C..,.,'                                                                                           RIOS
b-d-,                               N- 6, 9, 996 d'.,...                                                            PETRbLEO
RIO VIEJO                                                                                                                                                                 LA  GLORIA
ANO CREACIO  1 982                                      A    CREADO 1996                                                                                                  AF40 CREADO   1916
HABITANTES    2 761                                     IN   RMAC16N                                                                                                      HABITANTES    13418
% NSI          808 94                                   NCLUIDA EN                                                                                                        tNBI             59,79
KM,            144,1                                    RIO VIEJO
ANO CREADO   192 2
HABITA  TES    122 35
% N1            70,83
KM2              4
A ENAL
AF40 CR:ADO  1996
HABITANTES   8784
KM'            534
SIMITI
ANO CREADO  1536
HABITANTES   17071
NBI          63,84
ANO CREADO 1981
HABITANTE        5448
% NBI           70,32
KM2             8
AF40 CREADO  1984
HABITANTES   22285
% NBI          61,50
SAN PABLO
AfqO CREADO  1968
HARITANTES   13179
N 1          79 21                                                                                                                                                          RIO  NEGRO
KWB            1581                                                                                                                                                       AF40 CREADO
HA  IAN "       1 "'171)
IB
ANO CREADO                                                                                                          :N                                                      M2
9A                                                                                                                                                      K                72
HABITANTE5   8481
% NB           86,36
KM2            1317
A
H
%
T
N    R        1973
s"J-                                                                                                                                                      25934
K
AF40 CREADO  1922
HABITANTES   210404
% NBI          39,31                                                                                                                                                             BETULI
KM2            889                                                                                                                                                                   D
ANO CREA0   1874
V                                       HABITANTES    7337
F40                                                                                                                                                                                      63,95
A    CREADO   1978
S           62
KM,             18                                                                                                                                                             DE CHUCURI
ANO CREADO 1895
HABITANTES    34217
PUERTO BERRIO
A40 CREADO 1881
HABITANTES    34670
1 1 2
% NBi           4.-                                                                                                                                                       AF40 CREADO   1981
KM2                 4                                                                                                                                                     HABITANTES    11553
NBI           70,30
A
HA
C-6i
I117,                 0
'U ER                                  TARRA                        EL PE  ON                                            _0
AF40 CREADO   1967          4F"   RI DO   1Q81              ANO CREADO   1966                  ANO CREADO   1993            ANO C            1846        E
3:   HABITANTES    18493         HAEITANTES    6407              HABITANTES    21779                HABtTANTES    1163           HABITA           19411                                                        ai
% NBI           52,65                       11W             % NBI           63 14                                                           6
660                         750             KM2             2865



