                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 30271

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (FSLT-70780)

                                                  ON A

                                LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                              COLOMBIA

                                                FOR THE

             SECOND MAGDALENA MEDIO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                           November 11, 2004




Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective as of November 11, 2004)

                                  Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (COP)
                                COP $2,540.47 = US$ 1,00
                                US$ 0.0003936 = COP$ 1,00

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1    December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACCI      Colombian International Cooperation Agency (Agencia Colombiana de Cooperación
          Internacional)
APL       Adaptable Program Loan
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CDPMM     Magdalena Medio Peace and Development Corporation (Corporación Desarrollo y Paz del
          Magdalena Medio)
CTN       National Technical Committee (Comité Técnico Nacional)
EBDIS     Integrated Basic Schools of Sustainable Development (Escuelas Básicas Integradas de Desarrollo
          Sostenible)
ECOPETROL National Petroleum Company (Empresa Colombiana de Petróleos)
ECOR      Core Team (Equipo de Coordinación y Orientación Regional)
EU        European Union
ETP       Technical Pedagogical Team (Equipo Técnico Pedagógico)
FARC      Colombia Revolutionary Armed Forces (Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia)
FINAGRO   Agricultural Sector Financial Fund (Fondo para el Financiamiento del Sector Agropecuario)
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
ICV       Quality of Life Index (Indice de Calidad de Vida)
IPM       Integrated Pest Management
ICO       Organizational Capacity Index (Índice de Capacidad Organizativa)
LIL       Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO       Nongovernmental Organization
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
PDPMM     Program for Development and Peace of the Magdalena Medio Region (Programa de
          Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio)
PSR       Project Status Report
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme




                                Vice President:      David de Ferranti, LCRVP
                              Country Director       Isabel M. Guerrero, LCC1C
                                Sector Director      John Redwood, LCSES
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Jairo Arboleda, LCSEO

                                         COLOMBIA
                   Second Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR

Project ID: P057692                                                  Project Name: Second Magdalena Medio Regional
                                                                     Development Project
Team Leader: Jairo A. Arboleda                                       TL Unit: LCCCO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: November 25, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Second Magdalena Medio Regional Development L/C/TF Number: FSLT-70780
                            Project
   Country/Department: COLOMBIA                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (42%); Other social services
                            (31%); Agro-industry (14%); General agriculture, fishing and
                            forestry sector (13%)
                  Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Decentralization (P);
                            Municipal governance and institution building (S); Conflict
                            prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/06/2001                                     Effective: 09/15/2001                11/21/2001
     Appraisal: 08/15/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 09/27/2001                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 05/28/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Colombia/National Planning Department
                      Other Partners:      Corporacion Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio - CDPMM

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director:                John Redwood                                   John Redwood
Team Leader at ICR:             Jairo Arboleda
ICR Primary Author:             Jairo Arboleda


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Project Development Objective was to test new forms of managing and operating the
Magdalena Medio Regional Development Program (PDPMM), resulting in: (a) an increase in
the influence of citizens in local and regional development; (b) local institutions which are
responsive and accountable to citizens; and (c) tangible social and economic benefits.
Learning objectives focused on:
1.      Testing new organizational and operational mechanisms intended to increase the role
        of community organizations and decrease dependence on the Magdalena Medio Peace
        and Development Corporation (CDPMM);
2.      Testing approaches for strengthening local and regional institutions so that they better
        respond to citizen needs and accept accountability for their actions;
3.      Testing approaches for implementing productive subprojects intended to increase the
        probability of their success and contribute to the economic and social development of
        the region; and
4.      Testing ways to respond to the needs of highly vulnerable communities through
        developing and implementing social initiatives that could facilitate the eventual pursuit
        of integrated and sustainable development initiatives.

The long-term objective of the PDPMM is to increase social capital and empower citizens,
leading to a significant reduction in poverty and an increase in peaceful coexistence in the
Magdalena Medio region. It was expected that the results of this Project would pave the way
for a subsequent phase of the PDPMM, more ambitious in its peace and poverty objectives
and scope of work. In addition, since PDPMM is Colombia's pioneer program in peace and
development in conflict-affected areas, the lessons would be used by peace and development
programs initiated in other areas of the country, and would contribute to the ongoing process
of defining the national strategy for promoting peace and development.

This was the second Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) supporting the PDPMM. The central
need to be addressed remained unchanged: to develop the capacity of grassroots
organizations and local change agents to reduce poverty and increase peaceful coexistence in
the Magdalena Medio region. The region's poverty indicators are substantially worse than
those of the country as a whole, and conflict and violence are endemic. Homicide is the
primary cause of death in the region.      Developing approaches and methods to empower
citizens to improve their economic circumstances and exercise peaceful democratic
governance remains the highest priority of the Government of Colombia and of the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS).

The early phases of the Project, supported by IBRD Loan 4371-CO as well as by national and
counterpart funding, demonstrated the power of a participatory, community-oriented
methodology for promoting development in the midst of conflict.         There were measurable
advances in strengthening human and social capital (e.g., 170 organizations involving 8,625
people adopted the program's vision and goals, the CDPMM obtained the capability to manage
a multi-million dollar Project and to assist communities in preparing 67 subprojects, and the
Government of Colombia adopted the Program's methods as part of its strategy for
development in conflict-ridden regions).




                                               - 2 -

But it also became evident that the step-by-step, community-building approach cannot be
rushed. In particular, laying the foundation for rational and sustainable development requires,
for example, that people and organizations in productive activities understand the concept of a
value chain, find their place in such a chain, and assess their capacity and needs, articulating
an effective demand for services and technical support. Also, the integration of municipal and
regional planning and services (such as education and health initiatives) requires both building
the capacities of a variety of local organizations and building a constituency committed to
working for accountable institutions and good governance. These requirements contrast with
the traditional approach of providing training and other resources to the officials or public
employees of the public entities themselves, on the assumption that public servants want to be
more responsive but simply lack the means.

Thus, this Project was designed to continue the flexible and continuous learning approach that
began with the first LIL, to pursue new learning areas, and to test larger, more complex local
development subprojects that had the potential to benefit a greater percentage of the residents
of the region. It was based on a state of readiness achieved under the first Project to move
fully into an investment mode promoting tangible social and economic results. The experience
from the first LIL showed that the objectives were reasonable, and in close alignment with
national and CAS priorities.     The Bank's response to this request for ongoing testing of
hypotheses and Project implementation was justified and led to significant advancements. In
the National Development Plan 2002-2006, the government adopted the strategy and
approach of regional peace and development programs inspired by the two Magdalena Medio
LILs. In addition, a network of Peace and Development Programs, called Red PRODEPAZ
was established at the initiative of civic, business, church, and academic leaders with the
sponsorship of United Nations Development Programme and the government. Members of
this network will be counterpart agencies for the implementation of the new Peace and
Development Project, which was approved by the Board of Directors of the World Bank in May
2004.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Not applicable.

3.3 Original Components:

The Project had four components, each associated with a specific learning area.

1.       Supporting program leadership and increasing role of communities. (US$3.41 million;
53.7 percent of total project financing).

This component supported the CPDMM's Program leadership role. New organizational and
operational mechanisms to increase the role of community organizations were introduced,
taking into account the diverse conditions in the region, particularly the on-going armed
conflict. Under this component, the CDPMM sought to transfer capacity to local communities
and share decision making with organizations in the region by establishing a core team
(ECOR)      and    subregional   technical-pedagogical   teams   (ETPs);   involve  community
representatives in decision making by delegating certain decisions to ETPs and inviting
non-staff community representatives to participate in the CDPMM's Director's Committee; help
municipal-level núcleos (citizen forums) to become more representative; and establish



                                               - 3 -

relationships with social organizations in zones of special concern.        This component also
strengthened the monitoring and evaluation system, and prepared for a new phase of
investment. It covered the CDPMM's core costs and essential full-time staff, as well as central
and subregional office costs and consulting fees for evaluations, audits, and financial
administration.

2.       Strengthening local and regional institutions. (US$0.89 million; 14 percent of total
project financing).

This component, closely related to the first, involved strengthening local and regional
institutions (private and public) so that they may better respond to people's needs and priorities
and are accountable for their actions. The primary focus was at the municipal level. Actions
included:
·   Supporting the creation of databases on quality-of-life and management information, and
    making this information accessible to community members;
·   Developing the capacity of núcleos to participate in and influence municipal administration;
·   Adapting citizen oversight mechanisms already existing in the health sector to other areas
    of public administration;
·   Consolidating the regional planning system initiated under the first LIL;
·   Strengthen community-based organizations;
·   Developing the self-evaluation capacity of núcleos and community organizations; and
·   Developing the capacity of local organizations to make alliances with municipal
    governments and other organizations to plan and implement investment subprojects.

Funds from this component also supported the núcleos' annual planning process in
accordance with the Project Operational Manual.

3.       Implementing productive subprojects.      (US$1.75 million; 28 percent of total project
financing).

This component involved testing approaches to the selection, design, and technical support of
local subprojects, seeking to identify conditions that increase the probability of their success
and contribution to the economic and social development of the region. These subprojects
were productive and commercial in nature, and managed by the participants themselves, with
the intent to demonstrate that even in conditions of exclusion and lack of security it is possible
to improve the quality of life in rural communities, obtain legal and permanent income and
employment without degrading natural resources, and develop skills and habits of ethical and
nonviolent practices in personal and public life.

The first LIL had identified four thematic areas that indicated good potential for widely
increasing economic and social benefits: small peasant farms; agro-industrial production;
small-town economies; and integrated approaches in strategic regions. Subprojects in each of
these areas were designed during the first LIL.        Many required additional investments in
preparation, feasibility studies, capacity building, and infrastructure during this phase to reach
the point of productive viability. Beneficiaries were required to contribute a minimum of 10-20
percent of the subprojects, and the CDPMM contributions to any single subproject were
generally limited to US$100,000, which was earmarked for financing studies, building capacity,
and testing technology. The strategy was to obtain the majority of investment for productive
subprojects from sources other than the LIL, including private and public sources of credit



                                                - 4 -

4.       Implementing social subprojects in vulnerable communities. (US$0.3 million; 5 percent
of total project financing).

This component focused on developing and implementing social initiatives that responded to
the needs of vulnerable communities and enhanced their ability to pursue integrated and
sustainable development initiatives. These types of subprojects were expected to increase the
capacity of community groups, especially women's organizations, and to address critical and
fundamental needs, including food security, primary health, and basic education.         These
subprojects were expected to be quite small (up to US$20,000), and to include beneficiary
contributions of about 10 percent, primarily in-kind.

These four components adequately addressed the Project objectives, yielding both tangible
advances in the peace and development process and experience consistent with the Project's
learning agenda. They were implemented as planned, and achieved satisfactory outcomes, as
discussed in Section 4.


3.4 Revised Components:

The Project was not revised.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

A Quality at Entry Assessment was carried out by a Quality Assurance Group (QAG) panel of
reviewers. The panel rated this project as Satisfactory Overall, with Highly Satisfactory rating
for Strategic Relevance and Approach, and Satisfactory ratings in all other dimensions.
Notwithstanding the project's focus on helping to develop and test a new development model
that builds social capital at the community level, the panel felt the project could have been
improved by building more explicitly on an analysis of sociopolitical aspects (beyond the civil
conflicts) and incorporating such considerations into project design and implementation
arrangements.

Assessing the project against QAG's criteria for LILs, the panel was satisfied that LIL was the
appropriate lending instrument for the project. In addition, the panel assessed the project in
relation to the following four issues:

(1) Clarity of the statement of what is to be learned. The panel found that the Project
Appraisal Document included a good description of the areas where learning was to take
place, for each of the four components stated in the Project Development Objective.

(2) Appropriateness/adequacy of the design to permit learning. The panel felt that the
project design should be more specific about the different processes and activities summarized
under "learning" and the way they are consciously planned for and organized in the project.
Because capacity development of individuals, and institutional and organizational change at
various levels were integral parts of the Projects strategy and design, the panel suggested that
these processes should be more explicitly accounted for in the project preparation, and that
particular expertise should be brought in, especially in the area of organizational and
institutional development.


                                               - 5 -

(3) Relevancy of indicators to measure success/failure of the learning components.
Relevant quantitative indicators are established for several aspects of three of the four
learning areas.    The panel felt, however, that the indicator for the productive subprojects
(increase in revenues and assets of households who are members of productive associations
receiving support) was not sufficient. It is unlikely that there would be much to show on an
aggregate basis within the implementation period. It would also be very expensive to establish
a baseline (especially regarding assets) and measure results within the implementation period.
The panel agreed that it would be useful to document the actual returns of subprojects on a
case-by-case basis to provide feedback on the assumptions underpinning analysis and design
of subprojects.

(4) The adequacy of the definition of operational links to eventual scaling up and to
replication or an exit strategy. The panel agreed with the Task Team that not all LILs need
to be designed as pilots. In this case, the learning agenda is most important, with continuous
feedback into refining a more viable development mechanism.

Strong Aspects identified by the panel were: (1) borrower commitment and leadership; (2)
project response to the CAS position that restoring peace is the most significant developmental
priority for Colombia; (3) CDPMM's active engagement in the learning agenda, and its
willingness to implement changes in management approaches (decentralization and greater
responsibilities for community organizations) to increase effectiveness and sustainability; (4)
the Project's design, which specifically takes a learning (not pilot) approach, and includes as
an integral part of the project cycle ongoing feedback and monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
complemented by flexible and responsive project administration arrangements; and (5) the
Project's efforts to develop suitable strategic, management, and administration systems for the
CDPMM, the vehicle through which many other donors would operate.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The Project outcome is rated as Satisfactory. The Project made substantial progress toward
achieving its development objectives. Maintaining a well-managed and locally driven citizen
participation and development program amid continuing conflict in the region, strengthening
and building trust in local democratic institutions, and continuing to track results as part of a
continuous learning strategy are important contributions toward the continuation and
expansion of peace and development efforts in Colombia. The Program and its leader, Father
Francisco de Roux, have won numerous awards, including the Colombian National Peace
Prize, the German Kerk en Leven Peace Prize, the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights
annual award, and two nominations to the World Bank President's Excellence Project Award.
Recognizing the achievement of objectives and learning of this Project, the Government of
Colombia made a commitment to expand at the national level the positive experience of the
Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project through the Peace and Development Project
in at least five conflict-affected regions of the country. This latter initiative was approved by
the Board in June 2004. The efficient management of Project resources resulted in CDPMM's
managing the significantly larger Peace Laboratory Project financed by grant resources from
the European Union in the amount of EUR 34 million.

In general, the Project achieved its established benchmarks: (1) an increase in the influence of



                                                - 6 -

citizens in local and regional development; (2) local institutions that are responsive and
accountable to citizens; and (3) tangible social and economic benefits. The Project benefited
some 30,000 people and generated new 3,345 jobs. It invested resources averaging less than
$2,000 per permanent job created, and the Project leveraged $7.5 from other sources for
every dollar provided by the LIL.

The Project contributed to the CAS objective of promoting peace and development through a
focus on the socioeconomic determinants of violence. Colombia's National Development Plan
for 1998-2002 emphasized two tracks for the peace process: (i) national-level negotiations and
(ii) local and regional initiatives to build social capital and address the root causes of violence.
This PDPMM was the national showcase for the regional and local initiatives.

The Project presented an innovative approach to decentralization, with a strong emphasis on
local capacity and decision-making, and it became a key player in the region. As a result, the
director and other senior staff are frequently called to act as facilitators in the region, and their
advice is sought after by government authorities and international and national organizations.

The results of the project are also consistent with the three components set out by the World
Development Report 2000/2001 for promoting empowerment: (1) ensuring that institutions are
responsive and accountable to users, especially the poor and excluded; (2) building the
capacity of the poor and excluded to voice their own opinions in the formulation of public
policy; and (3) removing obstacles that prevent the poor and excluded from accessing public
services and institutions.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Details of achievement of each of the identified outputs are presented in Annex 1.

1.      Program leadership and increased role of communities. This component focused
on increasing the role of community organizations, taking into account the diverse conditions in
the region, particularly the armed conflict, and gradually decreasing community dependence
on the PDPMM. Achievement of the indicated outputs was Satisfactory. In addition to Project
financing, the leadership of the program and of the community organizations were able to
attract additional resources for about US$7.5 million dollars. The sources of funding included
UN agencies, bilateral aid, international NGOs, contribution from local governments, and credit
from financial institutions, aside from the EU financing of the Peace Laboratory in the amount
of EUR 34 million.

Substantial progress was made toward putting in place and testing the mechanisms for
transferring capacity and decentralizing decision-making as illustrated below. However, the
CDPMM continues to play an essential role in the expansion of the program; for instance, the
EU demanded the continued leadership of the CDPMM as a condition for EUR 34 million grant.
This is a sign of the reputation and capacity gained by the CDPMM during the life of the
Bank-financed Project.

In 26 of the region's 29 municipalities, núcleos for citizen participation have developed norms
on representation and participatory decision-making; 12 have worked with municipal authorities
to develop elements of a proposal for integrating economic and social capital initiatives into
municipal development plans.         These local governments have opened a space for civic
participation that previously did not exist.


                                                  - 7 -

Technical teams (ETPs) established for each subregion provided technical assistance at the
subregional level, assisting the núcleos in the design of plans and proposals and serving as a
link between local groups and the program as a whole. Eight teams were operating at the
close of the Project. Although led by individuals contracted and paid by the Project, the teams
also included representatives of the núcleos and other public or private organizations in the
region.   The ETPs developed local capacity for providing technical assistance to local
communities.

The Regional Coordination Team (ECOR) focused on development of regional-level productive
subprojects and activities, working to assure technical quality of subprojects, and directing the
flow of Project resources. The M&E system developed a data-tracking system to feed back
into subproject design and implementation. Near the end of the Project, as outside financing
allowed an increase in the number and level of funding of productive subprojects, the ECOR's
responsibilities for subproject review increased substantially.     At the same time, CDPMM
continued to work to establish as many of these responsibilities as possible at the subregional
and local levels, decreasing the number of ECOR personnel in the central office and keeping
the expertise closer to local communities, consistent with the objective of the component.

In general, the structures for managing the Project and promoting local leadership functioned
in accordance with expectations. Outputs were well quantified with measurable indicators. The
M&E system placed a high value on responsiveness to local conditions and at the same time
on coherence of overall data.        The PDPMM has made considerable strides to integrate
monitoring information and improve feedback. See Annex 1 Output Indicators.

2.      Strong local and regional institutions. This component involved strengthening local
and regional institutions (private and public) to better respond to citizen needs and priorities
and to become accountable for their actions. Achievement of the indicated outputs was Highly
Satisfactory.

Although the results from this component varied in different parts of the region, one key result
of this component was the development of the Participatory Regional Planning System. This
innovation has received national recognition by the National Planning Council and has been
featured in national events and in the literature on public participation in Colombia.       The
regional planning system process takes the region as a unit, and, through a series of
participatory planning activities, influences the development plans in each of the municipalities.
Two of four Departments (Santander and Antioquia) with municipalities in the region have
taken this approach as a model. This result was not anticipated in the logical framework.

Municipal-level núcleos functioned adequately in 26 of the 29 municipalities, and developed
relationships with local public institutions. Some organizations linked to the núcleos and to the
Regional Planning System influenced public affairs, as evidenced by the inclusion of projects
in the Municipal Development Plan in 12 out of 29 municipalities. Six municipal governments
held town hall meetings to present citizens with the results of the government plan during
2003; none had done so previously. During municipal electoral campaigns at the end of 2003,
the Project was successful in calling work sessions with 15 mayoral candidates on
Programmatic Vote, a participation mechanism by which candidates present their government
platforms and make public commitments to their implementation, if elected. Furthermore, two
elected mayors (Municipalities of Landázuri and Peñón) came out of the ranks of the



                                                - 8 -

Participatory Regional Planning System.

In addition, educational institutions have been strengthened in several areas.               Various
municipalities have adopted the concept of Integrated Basic Schools for Sustainable
Development (Escuelas Básicas Integrales de Desarrollo Sostenible, or EBIDS) linking basic
education with skills central to the implementation of productive activities, including agriculture.
Young people's and women's networks have formed and opened additional opportunities for
participation in civic processes and activities. Five municipalities (San Vicente, El Carmen,
Landázuri, Barrancabermeja, and Gamarra) developed municipal education plans as a result
of citizen initiatives; nine additional municipalities will replicate this activity in 2004. Informal
educational processes have also been set in motion, including the Escuela Campesina for
leadership development. There is anecdotal evidence that the EBIDS, by increasing the
enrollment of youths in post-primary education, have contributed to a reduction in the
recruitment of youths by armed actors in those municipalities. Finally, in Barrancabermeja, the
largest city of the region, La Ciudadela Educativa has become the center of the educational
system of the urban neighborhoods of Comuna Seven, becoming a recognized model for other
parts of the city.

More than 30 organizations working at the local level, as well as the pedagogical teams (ETPs)
and municipal núcleos, have worked with the M&E team and developed processes for using
monitoring information as part of decision making.

3.      Productive subprojects.         This component involved testing approaches to the
selection, design, and technical support of local subprojects, seeking to identify conditions that
increase the probability of their success and contribution to the economic and social
development of the region. Achievement of the indicated outputs was Satisfactory.

The 77 subprojects supported by the Project had a goal of promoting sustainable development
at the community level and supporting productive activities in the region to enhance the dignity
of families, generate income, establish food security, increase the flow of products to national
and international markets, strengthen the campesino culture and the social stability of
communities, and expand production of renewable natural resources while protecting the
environment. Most of these subprojects had their beginnings in the first LIL, as núcleos (i)
identified and set priorities for productive activities in each subregion and municipality, (ii)
adopted policies and procedures for subproject selection, and (iii) evaluated proposed
subprojects according to environmental, social, financial, organizational, and sustainability
criteria.  Outcomes reported at the end of the Project include 69 of the 77 subprojects
successfully completed; eight recently initiated had not yet produced quantifiable results.

There were four general categories of subprojects:

Campesino farming (finca campesina).         Twenty-seven subprojects supported small farms,
generally less than 10 hectares, and with fewer than 10 head of cattle. These subprojects
generally helped farmers diversify their production and improve food security. This component
generated 819 jobs and benefited some 7,500 residents.

Permanent tropical products. The two subprojects in this category involved relatively large
numbers of producers in producing palm oil and cacao for national and international markets.
The palm project in particular was very successful in leveraging additional resources and in



                                                - 9 -

delivering products to market at an acceptable cost/yield ratio. This market could become
more competitive as supply increases to meet market demand, and reductions in marginal
costs of production continue to decline. The subprojects obtained additional credit from outside
financial institutions totalling $2.2 million. These two subprojects generated 1,923 jobs and
had 11,538 beneficiaries.

Community economy. The twenty subprojects financed by the project supported the creation
of infrastructure needed to catalyze commercialization and economic return of various
small-producer products. For example, warehouses and marketing centers united numerous
small producers to achieve economies of scale in purchasing inputs and supplies and selling
products (e.g., beans, corn), as well as processing food products (e.g., fruit pulp) to give them
access to new markets.         These subprojects produced 425 new jobs and served 4,235
beneficiaries.

Strategic micro-regions. Twenty subprojects served the strategically selected regions of the
Cimitarra Valley and the mid- to upper-Carare Valley, as well as fishing communities
throughout the region. Given the special needs of these microregions, productive subprojects
were designed slowly and with a high level of assistance. Subprojects focused on integrated
development and justice as well as on specific productive practices, such as those pertaining
to agriculture and sugarcane. There were 178 jobs created and 6,458 beneficiaries.

In total, these subprojects benefited some 30,000 people, generating 3,345 permanent jobs.
In addition, the Project has significantly advanced the management capability of the
organizations and producer associations involved in the subprojects.            Advances include
increased membership, improved accounting and financial management, and the emergence
of several new organizations.        Several of the most promising subprojects are showing
significant progress and consolidation, particularly in relation to oil palm, organic cocoa, baby
banana, yucca, and brick-making.

Environmental management was important in all subprojects.              The community planning
processes included reflection and education on environmental components of regional
planning; "clean technologies" were favored; where possible, the Program sought to reduce
the negative impacts of external activities including coca cultivation, fumigation of illicit crops,
and the practice of rupturing pipelines to divert petroleum products. Specific improved
practices that have been adopted include organic production; practices that promote a higher
quality product in response to market demand; agro-forestry; soil conservation technology;
integrated pest management; crop rotation; and improved technology for pasteurization of
milk.

It bears noting that a supervision mission in May 2003 found some weaknesses in how the
Project dealt with environmental concerns, particularly regarding integrated pest management.
Recommendations were made to make sure that adequate attention is paid to this in the
future.   Based upon these recommendations, changes were made in the assessment of
projects. Furthermore, a recommended evaluation of a number of productive subprojects of
the PDPMM was conducted as a preparation activity for the Peace and Development Project to
determine how the Project should deal with these issues, to make improvements in the future
and to enrich the environmental framework for the new Bank-financed project.

4.      Social subprojects in vulnerable communities. This component focused on



                                               - 10 -

developing and implementing social initiatives that respond to the needs of vulnerable
communities and enhance their ability to pursue integrated and sustainable development
initiatives. Achievement of the indicated outputs was Satisfactory.

The Project supported the creation of "humanitarian zones"; that is, communities dedicated to
building a peaceful society based on human rights and human dignity. The most notable
example is the community of Micoahumado, where residents have built alliances to create a
secure and sustainable community that rejects violence.          This component's goal of five
subprojects was exceeded, with community alliances also created in Rio Viejo and Opón
(where a plan for attention to humanitarian issues was created), and in Villa Flor, Santa Rosa,
where the community likewise developed a sugarcane commercialization project. In these
communities, seriously affected by violence, the results demonstrate a new ability for
inter-institutional collaboration.     Following these models, there are plans to work in 13
"humanitarian zones" under the Peace Laboratory framework in 2004.

The Project was well designed to achieve the intended outcomes. In association with other
partners, particularly UNDP, this work established a framework for comprehensive
humanitarian assistance, moving very poor populations toward self-reliance and eventually
entering into informal or formal markets. By the end of Project implementation, substantial
improvements in food security and access to social services had been made in the lives of
thousands residents, and infrastructure was in place to continue to sustain and build on those
achievements.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable for a LIL loan.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable for a LIL loan.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Institutional strengthening was one of the most salient achievements of this Project,
observable at multiple levels. Producer organizations and cooperatives gained organizational
and technical skills and experience that enabled them to plan for economic development using
sophisticated analysis of costs and returns and open management processes. This sound
business footing, in turn, opened doors to sources of credit that would not otherwise have
been available, extending participation and benefits to greater proportions of their
communities. The palm oil subproject mentioned above is one example. It is expected that
these business processes of the productive organizations will apply to other spheres of their
civic or economic live. Community-building practices have won wide acclaim for the Project
and have been emulated in peace and development projects elsewhere.

At the local level, the success of the participatory regional planning system promoted by the
PDPMM was also a major achievement that has been adopted as a model for replication in
other parts of the country. The incorporation of monitoring data strengthened the capability of
local institutions to respond to citizens and to identify development priorities and agendas, as
evidenced by the number of municipalities that incorporated community initiatives into their
development plans. In the most vulnerable communities, social subprojects, especially those



                                                - 11 -

that have improved access to and quality of education, have made a tangible difference in the
lives of citizens and helped to develop the confidence that is the necessary first step for
engaging in civic life. As documented in Annex 1, several local governments became more
responsive to citizens needs and expectations as a result of this Project.

Throughout the life of the Project, ETPs served as an effective means to transfer learning and
technology. Núcleos were effective at enabling citizen participation in the decision-making
processes of municipal institutions. However, there was some concern expressed in the final
evaluation that the strength of these Project-supported entities might have come to some
degree at the expense of established local organizations such as the Community Action
Boards (Juntas de Acción Comunal).

The CDPMM significantly strengthened its capabilities during the course of the Project. The
efficient management of Project resources was one of its major accomplishments. In addition,
CDPMM was deemed sufficiently capable to manage the significantly larger Peace Laboratory
Project, financed by a EUR 34 million grant from the European Union.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Continuing conflict in the region. The Project operated in a challenging environment. The
Pastrana Government's national peace process broke down in 2002, and there was a shift of
the new administration towards a policy of democratic security. The armed conflict at the
national and regional levels continued to increase. Despite a change of government, support
to the project continued unabated. In addition, UNDP continued to actively support the Project
beyond its official role in providing financial management services, and it opened an office in
Barrancabermeja. Although the PDPMM's achievements in the first phases were substantial,
the ability to achieve its ambitious long-term objectives was subject ultimately to the broader
process toward peace and security in Colombia. The close alignment of Project objectives
with the policies and priorities of the national government and with the Bank's CAS, provided
confidence that both the Project and the broader context would receive adequate attention and
focus.

Paramilitary groups strengthened their dominance in the region, and the FARC increased its
number of combatants and the aggressiveness of its campaign. Local residents continued to
be displaced as a result of the conflict, which, in turn, eroded hard-earned Project
achievements.        Worse, more than 20 individuals associated with the PDPMM were
assassinated, including a technical advisor, a regional planning commission member, and
several members and leaders of municipal núcleos. Although their deaths were not a result of
their activities in the PDPMM, this is a tragic situation that impacted on the Project. The
continuing conflict also reduced municipal officials' ability to discuss public issues openly. The
Project did not explicitly seek to build capacity for mediating conflict, but rather expected that
generally increasing confidence and participation of citizens in public and private institutions
could lead to this outcome. Near the end of the Project, there was an encouraging example in
the community of Micoahumado in the Municipality of Morales, where local residents insisted
on peace in their communities. Accompanied by the PDPMM and national and international
organizations, they have made progress toward the withdrawal of armed groups and a
reduction in assassinations.



                                                     - 12 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Complementary actions. To achieve its fullest impact, the PDPMM needed to work in a
context in which several of the root causes of displacement, poverty, and violence were
addressed by both the Project and other actors. The government's responsibilities in this
regard included investing in continued progress to improve security; implementing agrarian
reform; developing local infrastructure, such as tertiary roads needed to allow goods to reach
the market; providing other basic services; and extending credits and other support to
developing local subprojects. Indeed, due in no small part to the leadership of the CDPMM,
the region benefited from a number of multisectoral, collaborative efforts involving various
kinds of support from the national government, United Nations agencies, bilateral aid
agencies, subnational governments and private actors. Still, despite reductions in homicide
and other violence during the last two years, the overall security situation continued to be a risk
in the absence of ongoing peace negotiations. The process of improving infrastructure for
transportation, communications, and sanitation -- critical to improving quality of life in the
region -- will necessarily extend beyond the life of this Project. Overall, the contributions of
government and its supporters to the success of the Project has been remarkable in light of
the difficult circumstances, and shows promise to be maintained as the work moves to its next
phases.

Impacts of the illicit crop control program. Fumigation of illicit crops in the region began in
2003. Besides interrupting the coca economy, which although illegal, represents an economy
more than eight times the size of the annual budget of all of the municipalities in the south of
Bolivar, fumigation heightened political tensions and had negative effects on forests and legal
crops, as well as on agricultural subprojects supported by the PDPMM.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Management effectiveness. CDPMM attracted and kept well-qualified staff. Its accounting
and management systems were adequate, functioned in accordance with the Project design,
and contributed to the overall effectiveness of the Project. The Corporation made continued
progress toward decentralization, adapting learning from its own experience as well as from
other peace and development efforts to implement systems to support and monitor program
activities and outcomes.

Complementary actions.            Alongside the implementation of this second LIL, the CDPMM
began to implement the Peace Laboratory in the Magdalena Medio Region Project, financed
by the European Union. The Peace Laboratory will bring some EUR 34 million to the PDPMM
over seven years. Initially, the Peace Laboratory was limited to 13 municipalities in the region,
but negotiations are underway to extend it to all 29 municipalities. On the whole, this program
is of enormous benefit and makes it possible to expand and strengthen the benefits of the
work to date. In the short term, however, the entry of a major new funder with its own interests
and requirements created some tension over support to municipalities not included in the EU
project, as well as over the demands on CDPMM to process proposals for the greater number
of productive projects generated under the Peace Laboratories project.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Not applicable on a LIL.



                                                    - 13 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability is not generally assessed in an ICR for an LIL. However, it is quite certain that
the Project infrastructure and the social, political, and economic gains will be sustained. Even
though Ecopetrol, one of the original funding partners, is in transition and will likely not
continue as a major funder of the PDPMM, there is substantial new funding through the Peace
Laboratory project and other sources, including multilateral, bilateral, and international NGOs;
private business; and government counterparts.           In addition, the Project has linked small
producer associations to the services of financial institutions, particularly the long-term credit
schemes of FINAGRO (National Financial Institution for the Rural Sector).              Finally, new
technical and organizational capacities and an emerging culture of grassroots participation in
public in affairs will be maintained. These are signs of an emerging and viable culture of active
and responsible citizenship.

The Bank has approved a US$30 million loan, the Peace and Development Project, Phase I of
an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), to extend the approach of the two LILs of Magdalena
Medio to 80 new municipalities of four other conflict-affected regions of the country and to
support the consolidation of the CDPMM and the PDPMM. A Phase II loan of an additional
US$30 million will support the consolidation of the four new regions and the expansion of the
Project in up to four additional regions.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

For the next phase of operations, CDPMM is restructuring, continuing decentralization, and
strengthening the linkages among peace, human rights, and sustainable community
development. The corporation will have three divisions: peace and human rights, technical
assistance, and administration. The Peace and Human Rights division will include expertise in
regional development, institutional strengthening, environment, and planning. The Technical
Assistance division will consist of a small central team (two people) who will serve primarily as
liaisons and information managers in support of a core team (corresponding to the ECOR of
the present Project) that is further decentralized to the field. ETPs will continue to work in each
of the subregions, offering expertise on policy (peace and human rights), economic
development, and institutions/democratic governance. The Administrative division will comprise
a general administrator, accountants, systems specialists, and general services.

CDPMM intends through its reorganization to be more explicit and purposeful in addressing the
structural causes of violence and poverty. The operations and the full team are based in
Barrancabermeja and the subregions, but there is a liaison office in Bogotá for interaction with
the national government, the World Bank, the EU, and other donors. The Peace Laboratory
project, other international cooperation, and local sources will provide ongoing financial
support for program operations.

The M&E system developed during the course of the LILs will continue to track the selected
indicators and to provide feedback to the individual projects and technical teams. Bank staff
will have the opportunity to receive and review monitoring data as part of normal supervision of
the Peace and Development Project.



                                                  - 14 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory.
Substantial risks identified during preparation and appraisal included significant interference
due to ongoing conflict in the region, and an inability of Project and community organizations
to establish and maintain communication among its diverse actors. Moderate risks included
opposition from municipal authorities, weakening of confidence in the Project among
participants, delays in arrival of funds, involuntary displacement of people involved in
subproject activities, and lack or delays in co-financing by producer associations,
municipalities, and others. These concerns were well-founded. As noted above, conflict and
displacement affected Project implementation throughout, but the measures taken to minimize
negative impact contributed to the satisfactory achievement of objectives. Mitigating measures
included establishing broad programmatic coverage in the region, implementing a highly
inclusive process, focusing efforts where probabilities for achievement were comparatively
greater, and garnering support from national and international organizations in the region.

The design team did not believe that safeguard policies were needed at the outset, although it
did recognize that individual productive subprojects might require environmental and/or social
assessments, and safeguards would need to be applied at that level if issues arose. During
implementation, the Bank provided information and technical assistance so that Project
technical staff could understand all 10 environmental and social safeguard policies, with
special emphasis on Pest Management (OP 4.09) and the need to develop Integrated Pest
Management strategies and pest management plans for African palm, yucca, and cacao,
which are the principal crops supported through the Project. The development and application
of these procedures were considered to be especially important in light of the scaling-up of the
Project through the EU-financed Peace Laboratory and its replication at the national level
through the Bank-financed Peace and Development Project.

The Bank fielded well-qualified teams of personnel for design and appraisal. Design elements
assured compliance with standards and best practices in technical, financial, and institutional
management.      Project appraisal was thorough, thoughtful, and technically sound.         The
financial package was appropriate to the goals and purposes of the loan, and the LIL
instrument was well chosen for the Project. Lessons from previous projects were adequately
taken into account, and indeed, reconfirmed through the experience of the Project. Most of
the recommendations of the QAG were implemented.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory.
The Bank assigned well-qualified personnel to manage the Project, and it brought substantial
technical expertise to the twice-yearly supervision missions. Each mission included discussion
of specific issues needing to be addressed, and the Project files document consistent
follow-up to ensure that appropriate actions were in fact taken. The Project benefited from the
presence of the Task Team Leader in Bogotá, who facilitated an ongoing relationship with



                                              - 15 -

government and Project teams. The Project also benefited from a flexible mode of supervision
through which the CDPMM assumed significant responsibility for monitoring and reviewing
Project progress with Bank personnel in a way that minimized the security risks of site visits
while assuring close supervision and contact with stakeholders. Missions were able to visit
project sites in several municipalities.    Direct contact with project beneficiaries and local
authorities in these sites was mutually beneficial and contributed to enhancing trust and
motivation among all. Project performance was deemed satisfactory throughout, although
there were periods of lesser and greater achievement, which were expected, given the context
of the region. The Project complied with all loan covenants. No significant deviations from
Bank policies and procedures were noted.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

In light of the contributions outlined above, the solid design, prompt attention to progress and
corrective actions, and overall satisfactory outcome of the Project, the overall Bank
performance is rated Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory.
Government and implementing agency representatives participated actively in project design
and brought to the process the experience and lessons learned from the first LIL. Stakeholder
commitment to the Project was high. As noted above, collaboration between the Borrower and
the Bank team resulted in the design of a Project that was well positioned to make progress in
an area crucial to the CAS and the government's development priorities.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory.
Despite the breakdown of the peace process, the Project was fully implemented, and the
government kept its commitments to co-financing and other support. Severe fiscal constraints
limited the government's ability to support complementary activities that might have advanced
the Project's objectives, including parallel development programs, infrastructure development,
and land tenure regularization; however, Project funds flowed as planned.           Government
agencies participated in planning and oversight bodies at every level, including the National
Technical Committee, in which the National Planning Department played a key role.
Government representatives participated in all supervision missions as documented in
aide-memoire and back-to-office reports.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory.
CDPMM was adequately staffed and efficiently managed to achieve the Project's planned
activities. It demonstrated serious attention and commitment to assuring that planning and
implementation were participatory, and that funds were disbursed efficiently.          CDPMM's
readiness gained under the first LIL accelerated the process for making Project funds available
under LIL II. These procedures, which used to take up to three months to complete, are now
possible to complete in less than 30 days.




                                               - 16 -

There were several instances of delayed disbursement, attributable largely to the extra time
needed to assure that subprojects were technically and financially viable and that
implementing agencies were fully capable of financial management. There were also delays in
developing baseline information for the M&E system, but once established it was very useful in
assesses progress and benefits.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Taking into account the factors described above, and the overall achievement of the Project
objectives, the Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The Project demonstrated that progress toward community-driven development and civic
engagement can be made in the midst of conflict, although the conflict will be a continuing
obstacle that will affect program activities in various ways. The Project helped to build local
capacity for democratic governance and leadership in community development, strengthened
citizen forums, assisted local agencies in becoming more responsive to citizens, developed
more than 75 productive subprojects, and supported communities in providing accessible
education and technical training. Community-driven projects have demonstrated sound design
and tangible results, and they are gaining experience with credit management that can open
doors to ongoing development.

Key lessons drawn from Project experience include:

1. Lessons related to testing new organizational and operational mechanisms,
increasing the role of community organizations and decreasing dependence on the
CDPMM:

a) Significant time is required to develop a model. Building blocks of local processes and clear
rules for decision making had been instituted in the first LIL but required continuing
development.       The complex objective to support productive subprojects that were
community-driven yet economically viable and environmentally sound required substantial
investments in local learning and technical support.

b) Continuing leadership from a recognized change agent remains important even as local
units and communities become more empowered. Given the armed conflict against the state,
the continuing role of the CDPMM as a trusted channel for development resources gives
confidence to donors engaged in scaling up the Project to the national level. Thus, the use of
a trusted third party to channel development resources in situations of armed conflict against
the state was further validated during the project as a strategic option. The importance of this
reputation and capacity became clear during negotiations of the Peace Laboratory and the
granting of credit by FINAGRO.

2. Lessons related to testing approaches for strengthening local and regional
institutions so that they respond better to citizens needs and are accountable for their
actions:

a) Approaches need to be flexible and responsive to local differences. The Project succeeded
in a wide variety of activities with different community groups, ranging from agricultural



                                               - 17 -

producers associations to citizen núcleos. By working in each community on locally identified
priorities and with local leaders, the Project was able to benefit from these leaders' deep
understanding of the possibilities in their own communities.            However, the pace of
implementation varies according to factors such as existing capacity, resource endowment,
distance and logistics, and the dynamics of the conflict.

b) Monitoring and evaluation systems need plenty of time to develop and to demonstrate their
usefulness at the local and central levels. Like many community-based development projects,
this one sought to develop a "culture of evaluation" at the community level while trying to
monitor outcomes and impacts at the regional level. The PDPMM experience was typical in
that community organizations needed significant time to work with the concepts of monitoring
and development indicators, as well as to perceive the utility of monitoring and evaluation.

c) Standard economic and social indicators may not be significantly sensitive to changes at the
community level; alternative measures may need to be developed. Colombia's national quality
of life indicators ( indice de calidad de vida, or ICV) collected at the municipal level through
census data, are not sufficiently sensitive to measure changes among 30,000 beneficiaries in
a region with more than 800,000 people.            Potential solutions include funding project
area-specific collection of ICV data pre- and post-intervention -- a risky proposition in conflict
areas, where census data can be strategically sensitive -- or, better suited to this Project,
providing for longitudinal studies that extend beyond the life of the Project.       The QAG's
observation in the Quality at Entry Assessment about the difficulty of showing results of
productive subprojects on an aggregate basis over a three-year period proved true. The
external evaluation made an effort to document the actual returns of subprojects on a
case-by-case basis, as recommended by the QAG panel.

d) Creating a climate of accountability among public and private entities is a long-term venture.
Consequently, relying on a voluntary incorporation of good practices and showcasing early
successes should be the preferred strategy.

3. Lessons related to testing approaches for implementing productive subprojects:

a) Specialized expertise is needed for specific types of subproject support.         Subprojects
focused on developing products for national and international markets required specialized
experts to help producers assess their capabilities to meet market demands. For example,
market analysis helped producers to examine their costs, standards of quality, logistics, and
financial needs to understand precisely what it would take to be economically competitive in
those markets. Providing this type of expertise, and not merely agricultural extension focused
exclusively on production, was an important element to the success of these subprojects.

b) Loan financing of subprojects is an important tool for financial sustainability. Preparing
communities and producers to access credit -- and using credit rather than subsidies as early
in the subproject as possible -- was highly correlated with success and sustainability in
productive subprojects. Applying this lesson to similar projects in other regions might involve
examining sources of available credit during project preparation and developing appropriate
lines of credit as a project outcome.

4. Lessons related to testing responses to the needs of especially vulnerable
communities:



                                              - 18 -

Even the most disadvantaged communities have untapped stores of local vision and
leadership that can be mobilized through flexible and responsive approaches. Some of the
Project's most impressive achievements included enhancements in health and education
systems, food security, and other efforts arising from local leadership in vulnerable
communities.

Other lessons:

1. Emphasize both grassroots or "bottom-up" approaches to democracy and security as well as
national-level processes. Although the PDPMM's achievements in the first phase were
substantial, the ability to achieve its ambitious long-term objectives was subject ultimately to
the broader process toward peace, security, and development in the region and in Colombia.
This being the case, it is important to be realistic about the impact of grassroots innovation on
social, political, or economic developments in a region. As noted in the external evaluation,
many forces are at work in the Magdalena Medio region, of which PDPMM is only one, and its
contribution to the development of the region in the larger sense may be difficult to separate
from the contribution of other actors.

2. Continuity of key personnel, both at the Bank and in the Project, is invaluable. This was an
important factor contributing to the Project's achievements. The Project had only two Task
Team Leader's through the life of the two LILs and the preparation of the Peace and
Development Project.       Likewise, within the control of the implementing agency, there was
continuity in key leadership positions in the CDPMM and in the Program as a whole. This
allowed key actors to obtain a deep understanding of history and context, which supported the
learning and application of lessons.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Main Lessons: National Planning Department

1.      The Learning and Innovation Loan Mechanism

The LIL's flexibility, scale, and operating conditions make it an appropriate mechanism for
implementing the project, given the violence, inequity, and social and institutional weakness
characteristic of the region. The flexibility, scale and operating conditions this mechanism
offers allowed for an approximation "from the bottom up", with an acceptable degree of
targeting. It also permitted new forms of participatory development.

However, the LIL's typical two- to three-year duration is too short to allow for the more gradual
effort at social empowerment and institution building that is required in regions of intense
conflict. Longer-term interventions -- of seven or eight years -- would be better.

Likewise, given the massive amount of new information that must be imparted before the
project formally begins, the planning and preparation phase of the operation at the regional
level should be longer and more intensive. It is highly inefficient and costly to introduce new
information in the execution phase.



                                               - 19 -

2.      Policy Dialogue

The Magdalena Medio experience demonstrates the need to encourage dialogue on public
policy at the regional level, and between regions and the central level.         Cases such as
alliances for access to the borrowing facilities offered by FINAGRO, which made it possible to
overcome an access barrier thanks to the role of CDPMM, embody clear lessons on the need
to devise policies and programs with the regions. The FINAGRO facility has drawbacks in
terms of targeting, partially because it denies peasants easy access. The Project managed to
come up with an appropriate strategy, which is being replicated for the new Peace and
Development Project.

Generally speaking, the municipal proposals developed by núcleos bring local governments
and communities together in the interest of greater decentralization and participatory
democracy.     These efforts to increase governance are guided by the principles of joint
accountability, shared responsibility, and concerted action. In turn, the reinforced Territorial
Planning Committees play an important role at the departmental level by providing a regional
vision in keeping with the social, cultural, and economic dynamics. The Programmatic Vote
exercises in 15 of the 29 municipalities is a specific demonstration of work along this line.

The new Peace & Development project is expected to influence departmental and national
policies and programs by encouraging similar participatory scenarios for agreement on
concerted action and the development of program policies. However, to guarantee this
objective, national-level participation needs to be systematic.

3.      Project Coordination Unit

One limiting aspect of the Project was the absence of a Project Coordination Unit at the
national level. Within the National Technical Committee, the National Planning Department
offered some guidance or coaching, and, to a lesser degree, it provided technical and
administrative support for the Committee. The Project would have been better served by
having a basic nucleus of professionals dedicated specifically to the CDPMM.

4.      Public-private Alliance

The CDPMM has earned the respect of the government, the local population, and regional and
national institutions. Its transparency, accountability, permanent presence, and progressive
support for social processes aimed at productive occupation of the land are the basis for the
respect it has earned.      Confidence is its main asset and a potential "spark" for triggering
non-linear leaps in regional patterns of integral development.        This public-private alliance
between the CDPMM and the government is a good instrument              to bring citizens closer to
government authorities in a situation of armed conflict against the state.

5.      Monitoring and Evaluation

As noted earlier, the monitoring system was developed at a relatively advanced stage of the
project. Although it is being applied satisfactorily, its usefulness was reduced due to this time



                                               - 20 -

lag. Consequently, the National Planning Department recommends designing a system of this
type before the project is begun or, at the very latest, during an early stage of project
execution.

The project did not include an evaluation of impact.         It is recommended that future LIL
operations consider this aspect, which has proven to be useful for policy orientation.

6.      The World Bank as a Strategic Partner

The World Bank supplied the CDPMM and the direct beneficiaries with technical, financial, and
administrative advice, which also helped to reinforce confidence in the Project on the part of
citizens and institutions. Its participation in the National Technical Committee was helpful in
terms of orienting government agencies and counseling decisions on how to accomplish the
objectives and results of the project.

The World Bank has been unconditional in the development of these projects. It understands
the dynamics, gradual nature, and essence of the process. The LIL phase is now over and,
thanks to the support provided by the World Bank, the Government of Colombia has been able
to take a successful experience to national scale, with a degree of consolidation that allows its
lessons and teachings to be replicated. This further enhances development of the economic,
social, and institutional foundations for peace.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Main Lessons: Ecopetrol

1.      The Corporation Transfers Capacity and Shares Decisions with Organizations In the
Region

Acknowledgement of the CDPMM in the region, resource management training, and progress
with respect to the administrative processes of the technical teams denote broad and active
participation by the community, among other things. Nevertheless, the results of this process
are tangible only in the long term. They require continuity and additional effort to help the
núcleos and the technical teams acquire a genuine technical, financial, and administrative
capacity to play a decisive role in administrative processes, which imply considerable
involvement in regional development.

2.      Proven and Effective Ways to Help Local and Regional Institutions Better Serve the
Public Interest

A variety of factors demonstrate that community organizations were able to reinforce their
capacity for management and relations when supplied with information and training on
municipal public administration and participatory management of public affairs. Consequently,
these organizations were able to find room for participation in institutional, local, and regional
plans where their vision and needs could be taken into account.             Institutions, in turn,
guaranteed the efficiency of the programs and projects through effective monitoring and
evaluation.

3.      Proven and Successful Ways to Support Economic Activities with a High Probability of
Success in Production Areas, According to Factor Needs



                                               - 21 -

The fact that more than 200 income-earning initiatives were carried out in six years, via a
methodological process that allowed the PDPMM to satisfy the community's needs through
educational programs and resources identified by the population in advance, facilitating the
progressive development of each initiative up to the point of sustainability, shows the
methodology is adequate. It also demonstrates that a lack of education and a shortage of
resources within the community must be overcome if the population is to be included in
economic development processes.               From this point on, as with the country's
micro-enterprises, ongoing projects must solve the problems associated with use of
technology, marketing, productivity and quality, if they are to be competitive.

4.      Proven and Effective Ways to Develop Social Initiatives Undertaken by Communities
that Face Extreme Poverty and are Affected by the Armed Conflict, as a Demonstration of the
Priority on Life and as a Platform for Launching Integral and Sustainable Development
Processes

The participation of 17,000 community members in economic projects and initiatives for food
security, basic sanitation in the home, and development planning shows it is possible to
achieve development in the midst of the armed conflict. It also demonstrates the interest and
willingness of the community to place a priority on life by demanding respect for their projects
and displaying autonomy in the presence of armed actors.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Main lessons: the CDPMM

The program is identifiable in the region. During implementation of this second LIL, most of
the participants in the núcleos associated with the projects and the CDPMM had a better
understanding of the ongoing process and could describe it from a conceptual standpoint. At
this stage, the Project is understood as a set of community networks that function together.
While they have different focal points, networks are united by their commitment to building a
region that is free of poverty and violence, institutionally and environmentally sustainable, and
democratic and just, with a progressively better standard of living for the population.

The process of the peace and development program is viewed as a collective creation in
expansion, not a development model. The partners from grass-roots organizations and
sectors of civil society are conscious of this, as are the international agencies and the
government authorities at local and national levels. Accordingly, based on the lines of action
that emerged from application of the logical framework, new products appear to enrich this
framework and new activities are spawned. For example, beans grown in the San Lucas
Mountains are now on the international market; two tons of baby bananas are being exported
to Europe each week; the Ciudadela Educativa has become the official institution providing 17
thousand inhabitants of District 7 in Barrancabermeja with public education; and the local
Micoahumado Project has become a humanitarian space for peasant development.                 The
process is seen as a bid for greater decentralization, helping to empower grassroots segments
of the population with increasing capacity and decision-making ability. This paves the way for
reinforcing the plans of the núcleos, elevating the decision-making power of the subregions,
and reducing the CDPMM central team.

The Process is also identified as being radically inclusive and based on the idea that no
one has to leave the Magdalena Medio region. Those who are part of the process recognize



                                              - 22 -

there is an internal conflict in Colombia and within the region, and believe it can be resolved
through dialogue. Accordingly, each subproject is conceived as a way to overcome the conflict
and specifically seeks a dialogue with the illegal armed groups operating in the region, to
demand respect for civil society and to invite them to participate, as of now, in efforts to build
harmonious coexistence. The process is also identified by the central importance it affords to
peasant holdings in terms of food security, with a main project linked to the market, an
entrepreneurial vision and an association of producers.

It has become a sustainable process. The PDPMM and the two LILs gained the support of
three presidential administrations (Samper, Pastrana and Uribe). The last administration used
elements of the PDPMM to establish a strategy for regional peace and development programs
as part of the Development Plan, which has World Bank funding. The educational projects
instituted by EBIDS and the Ciudadela Educativa have become public schooling initiatives, and
in 2003, the CDPMM launched the Peace Laboratory.

Other Important Lessons

Efficient Management.        High standards and appropriate mechanisms to control their
application made it possible to substantially accelerate the initiation of some of the projects, to
carry out activities ahead of schedule, to justify what activities, to present the results of
progress achieved, and to accelerate the disbursement of Project funds.

Operational Partners. Working with partners that have capabilities that CDPMM does not help
to invigorate, diversify, and enrich the process.

The Municipal Proposal. The municipal proposal, which begins with an invitation from the
núcleos, enables the population to define and constantly improve upon what residents
propose. This original element of the PDPMM gained new force with the decentralization
process during the second LIL and became the basis for the Annual Operational Plan
developed at the end of 2003 for the Peace Laboratory.

Involvement with the Financial Market.          Credit helps to make productive subprojects
self-sustainable. By the end of the LIL, organizations of small producers associated with the
PDPMM were using about US$2.5 million in credit made available through national banks.

The CDPMM
The most important World Bank contribution to the Magdalena Medio process was equipping
the CDPMM with institutional capabilities. These have filtered down to the subregional offices
of the Corporation, to the community núcleos, and to participating organizations.

The World Bank

The World Bank transformed its assessment visits to the project into genuine sessions
for collective learning. These sessions made it possible to prepare the new loan for the
Peace and Development Programs, which will be, among other things, the counterpart of the
Peace Laboratories.       During the second LIL, there was continuous articulation with local
authorities: governors, mayors and municipal councilmen. The fact that a former mayor who
was trained in the community nucleus of the PDPMM in Santa Rosa del Sur and later served
as the mayor of that community was named Executive Director of the Mayors Association is



                                               - 23 -

highly significant. The mayors of Landázuri, San Vicente, Puerto Parra, Puerto Berrío,
Barrancabermeja, Arenal, San Pablo, Puerto Nare, Puerto Berrío and Gamarra have strong
ties to the program. Finally, the President of Colombia has established a relationship with the
PDPMM that can be classified as one of recognition, support and respect. This was evident in
the Barrancabermeja community counsel, in the way the President highlighted the Program's
accomplishments during his visits to Santa Rosa and El Carmen, and in having accepted
invitations from the PDPMM to talk about human rights, governance and peasant
development.

10. Additional Information

None.




                                              - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Demonstrate new forms of managing and         Although decentralization of CDPMM has         The Project made substantial progress
operating the PDPMM which results in:         increased, it is expected that its key role in toward achieving its development (learning)
a. increase in the influence of citizens in   the region will continue through the Peace     objectives. Recognizing the achievement of
local and regional development.               Laboratory.                                    objectives of this Project, the Government of
b. local institutions that are responsive and                                                Colombia has made a commitment to expand
accountable to citizens.                                                                     at the national level the Magdalena Medio
c. tangible social and economic benefits.                                                    Regional Development Project through the
                                                                                             Peace and Development Project in at least
                                                                                             five conflict-affected regions of the country.

- percentage of leaders and members of        Núcleos and community organizations will       Baseline data collected in late 2002/early
community organizations involved in the       continue to look proactively for the inclusion 2003 and thus reflecting changes during the
Project who believe that they have increased of their initiatives.                           first year of this LIL, as well as the prior two
their capacity to influence public affairs.                                                  phases of the PDPMM shows that 49% of
                                                                                             respondents say capacity has increased
                                                                                             greatly; 38% say there has been little change;
                                                                                             3% percieve no change; and 10% don't
                                                                                             know.

- percentage of municipalities that have                                                     At project closing 19 (65.5%) of the
incorporated projects and actions from the                                                   municipalities had incorporated projects or
Municipal Proposal of the núcleo into their                                                  actions in municipal plans or plans of other
municipal development plan.                                                                  public entities.

- number of municipal administrations that                                                   At closing 6 municipal administrations had
produce, at least once a year, reports on the                                                performed public audiencies about their
implementation of the municipal development                                                  performance.
plan that are made available to citizens.

- increased capacity and autonomy of          A new application of the ICO is expected by    As of December 2003, organizations
organizations as measured by the              mid 2004.                                      implementing productive projects had an
Participation and Organization Index (ICO).                                                  average score of 53.6% in the ICO. Based
                                                                                             on it, improvement plans were prepared.

- increased revenues and assets of            The CDPMM will contract the economic           Economic analysis of 5 subprojects (pottery,
households that are members of productive     evaluation of a number of productive           cocoa, palma, yuca, banano bocadillo) show
associations supported by the LIL.            subprojects to identify economic gains by      satisfactory IRRs. In 3 out of 5 IRRs are
                                              project beneficiaries.                         greater than 50%.

1End of project.
Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
OUTPUT 1: CDPMM has transferred               The final external evaluation will provide
capacities and shared decision making with    options to deal with the transition from LIL to
organizations in the region through:          the comprehensive Peace Laboratory.
(a) Director's Committee with representation
of the subregional teams (ETPs) deciding on
CDPMM's policies and financing;
(b) Core Team (ECOR) effectively providing
technical and pedagogical support to the
subregional teams; (c) ETPs created,
trained, managing resources and assisting
núcleos, organizations, and municipalities in
participatory planning and evaluation;
(d) Forms of cooperation with local
organizations in special areas are established
and operating;
(e) Representative nucleos (municipal level)
operating with mechanisms for shared
decision making; and (f) Satisfactory
operation of the M&E system.




                                                                  - 25 -

INDICATORS                                                                                  In a survey of 635 project participants, 199 or
- percentage of persons involved in the                                                     31% percieved a significant increase in their
Project who perceive an increase in their                                                   participation in decision-making of the
participation in important decisions of the                                                 CDPMM.
CDPMM
- number of agreements and contracts made Community organizations will reach closure        There was a significant increase from 3 to 45
by community organizations with entities       in a number of pending agreements with       agreements of community organizations with
other than the CDPMM                           other entities.                              local governments, sector ministries and
                                                                                            other national public or private entities.


- at least 5 subregional ETPs have                                                          All ETPs included representatives of the
mechanisms established and operating well                                                   núcleos and of other public or private
for representation and shared                                                               organizations of the subregion.
decision-making between the CDPMM and
representatives of community organizations
and public/private entities of the subregion


- annual plans of núcleos, ETPs, and                                                        Six ETPs, 19 núcleos and the CDPMM used
CDPMM use information generated by the                                                      the M&E information to prepare and monitor
M&E system                                                                                  núcleo plans, subregional plans, and the
                                                                                            Annual Operation Plan.


OUTPUT 2: Tested and effective                 CDPMM núcleos and community
approaches to promoting local and regional     organizations will continue to press for the
institutions (public and private) that respond establishment of specific accountability
better to the public interest:                 mechanisms by additional municipalities of
(a) Municipal administrations have databases   the regions.
and other information on their management
and the quality of life in the municipality,
accessible to civil servants and citizens; (b)
Núcleos have influenced the policies, plans,
and programs of the municipal administration
and other entities through the Municipal
Proposals which were prepared in a
participatory manner;
(c) Citizen oversight mechanisms (veedurías
ciudadanas) in the health sector are
consolidated and expand their actions to
other areas of public administration in the
municipality; (d) The regional planning
system is an effective mechanism for
consultation on regional development plans
and policies; (e) Local and regional
community-based organizations strengthen
their internal functioning, management
capacity and relations with others;
(f) Núcleos and organizations managing
projects regularly practice self-evaluation;
(g) Alliances and agreements are entered into
among CDPMM and municipalities.



INDICATORS:
- at least 10 municipalities have access to                                                 Three of the municipalities (Arenal, Peñón
data bases generated by the Project and                                                     and San Vicente de Chucurí have fully
managed by local civil servants                                                             developed data bases, and 9 additional
                                                                                            municipalities are in the process of
                                                                                            developing them with the support of the
                                                                                            Peace Laboratory.


- at least 15 núcleos have norms on                                                         Considerable increase from 5 núcleos at the
representation and participatory                                                            beginning of the project to 26 at the project
decision-making that are formalized and                                                     closing with internal guidelines regarding
operating well                                                                              functions, operation and conflict resolution.




                                                                  - 26 -

- at least 10 núcleos have formulated and                                                      Of the 27 núcleos, 10 have reached
agreed on elements of the Municipal                                                            agreements with municipalities and 9 with
Proposal with municipal authorities and other                                                  other public entities.
public entities


- at least 5 health oversight committees have                                                  Of 13 existing health oversight committees, 8
broadened their actions to other areas of                                                      have broadened their scope to infrastructure
public administration                                                                          and other projects.


- at least 20 núcleos and 15 organizations are                                                 At closing 17 núcleos and 33 organizations
preparing periodic self-evaluation reports                                                     prepared periodic self-evaluation reports.


- number of agreements between CDPMM                                                           At project closing the CDPMM had 58
and municipalities, and amount of resources                                                    agreements up from 27 at the end of the first
contributed by municipalities                                                                  LIL. The amount of resources invested by
                                                                                               municipalities is about $158,200.


OUTPUT 3: Tested and effective                  The second external evaluation will deepen
approaches for the development and              the understanding of what works and does
implememtation of productive subprojects        not work in significant productive
with a high probability of success in accord    subprojects, and will collect imperical data on
with the need for key factors for               costs, benefits, beneficiaries of each of these
success/inputs                                  subprojects.


INDICADORS:
- increase in financial resources (not those of                                                At project closing productive organizations
CDPMM) for productive subprojects                                                              had $2,142,000 and credit from public and
                                                                                               private financial institutions.


- number of agreements between CDPMM or                                                        Of the 42 productive subprojects receiving
the producer organizations and public or                                                       technical assistance, 28 have agreements
private entities for the provision of critical                                                 with public or private entities and 14 have
factors for productive subprojects                                                             contracted technical assistance directly with
                                                                                               other organizations.


OUTPUT 4: Tested and effective                  In partnership with UNDP the CDPMM will
approaches for developing and implementing establish a framework for humanitarian
social subprojects with communities in          assistance and moving vulnerable
conditions of extreme poverty and affected by populations towards self-reliance and to
the armed conflict, as a vehicle for moving     slowly enter into informal or formal markets.
them toward integrated and sustainable
development processes.


INDICATORS:
- at least 2 social subprojects of integrated                                                  Three partnerships have been established: 1)
attention for communities affected by the                                                      alliance in Rio Viejo with UN agencies,
armed conflict carried out in partnership with                                                 universities and international NGOs; 2) the
other entities                                                                                 humanitarian space for Micoahumado with
                                                                                               similar partners; and 3) the Opón alliance
                                                                                               with the UE and UN organizations.


- at least 3 social subprojects demonstrate                                                    Long-term development processes include:
links to a long-term development process                                                       alliance for Río Viejo, income generation in
                                                                                               Barrio 7 of August in Aguachica, marketing of
                                                                                               sugar cane in Sta. Rosa, and community
                                                                                               development plan of Micoahumado.

1 End of project




                                                                   - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Program leadership and increased role of communities          3.41            3.32           97.4
Strengthening of local and regional institutions              0.89            0.95          107.3
Productive subprojects                                        1.75            1.87          104.6
Social subprojects in vulnerable communities                  0.30            0.13           44.2

Total Baseline Cost                                           6.35            6.27
                          Total Project Costs                 6.35            6.27
                   Total Financing Required                   6.35            6.27


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                             0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00          6.35         0.00         6.35
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (5.00)         (0.00)      (5.00)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total                             0.00           0.00          6.35         0.00         6.35
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (5.00)         (0.00)      (5.00)




                                                 - 28 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              6.27             0.00              6.27
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.93)            (0.00)           (4.93)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00               0.00              6.27             0.00              6.27
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.93)            (0.00)           (4.93)

    1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Program leadership and          3.00         0.41         0.00        2.89         0.39       0.00       96.3      95.1      0.0
increased role of
communities
Strengthening of local and      0.40         0.49         0.00        0.42         0.49       0.00       105.0    100.0      0.0
regional institutions
Productive subprojects          1.40         0.35         0.00        1.48         0.35       0.00       105.7    100.0      0.0
Social subprojects in           0.20         0.10         0.00        0.13         0.00       0.00       65.0      0.0       0.0
vulnerable communities




                                                           - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable for a LIL.




                                      - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/24/2001                7    Task Team Leader (1),
                                             Productive Projects Specialist (2),
                                             Procurement Specialist (1),
                                             Institutional and Rural
                                             Development Specialist (1),
                                             Social Assessment and
                                             Institutional Arrangements (1),
                                             Social Evaluation and
                                             Institutional Strengthening
                                             Specialist (1)

              06/21/2001                4    Task Team leader (1),
                                             Productive Projects Specialist
                                             (1),
                                             Natural Resources Management
                                             and Environment Specialist (1),

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/21/2001                1    Financial Management
                                             Specialist (1)

              09/18/2001                6    Task Team Leader (1), Lawyer
                                             (1), Disbursement Officer (1),
                                             Procurement Specialist (1),
                                             Financial Management Specialist
                                             (1), Social Development
                                             Specialist (1)

 Supervision
              03/18/2002                2    Rural Development                       S               S
                                             Specialist (1), Business
                                             Productive Projects Specialist
                                             (1)
              09/12/2002                5    Task Team Leader (1),                   S               S
                                             Institutional and Rural
                                             Development (1), Productive
                                             Projects Specialist-Consultant
                                             (1), Financial Management
                                             Specialist (1), Monitoring and
                                             Evaluation Consultant-Specialist
                                             (1)
              05/26/2003                9    Task Team Leader (1),                   S               S
                                             Institutional and Rural
                                             Development Specialist (1),
                                             Agricultural Economist (1),
                                             Productive Projects
                                             Specialist-Consultant (1),


                                              - 31 -

                                            Education Specialist (1),
                                            Environment Specialist (1),
                                            Procurement Specialist (1),
                                            Financial Management Specialist
                                            (1), Environment Consultant (1)

               10/6/2003               2    Pest Management Specialist (1),
                                            Environment Consultant (1)

               02/10/2004              9    Task Team Leader (1), Lawyer         S    S
                                            (1), Institutional and Rural
                                            Development Specialist (1),
                                            Education Specialist (1),
                                            Productive Projects
                                            Specialist-Consultant (1),
                                            Financial Management Specialist
                                            (2), Economist (1), Political
                                            Analyst - Consultant (1)

 ICR
               08/12/2004             3     Task Team Leader (1),                S    S
                                            Institutional and Rural
                                            Development Specialist (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            19.8                              56.7
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 18.6                              42.8
  Supervision                           51.9                              97.2
  ICR                                     5.0                              6.9
  Total                                 95.3                             203.6




                                            - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

 Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 Agrogestión XXI S.A.     Febrero de 2003. Documento de Consultoría en el Tema de
 Agronegocios.    Implementación de una Estructura Agroempresarial Participativa Integral
 Sostenible para la Comercialización de la Producción Campesina en La Serranía de Los
 Yarigüies.

 Amézquita & Cía. Ltda. Informes de Auditoría. 2001, 2002, 2003, May, 2004.

 CDPMM. 2001. Proceso de Preparación. Proyecto Laboratorio de Paz en el Magdalena
 Medio Apoyado por la Comisión Europea.
 CDPMM. 2002, 2003. Informes de Ejecución parciales y finales.
 CDPMM. 2002 Manual Operativo.
 CDPMM. 2002, 2003. Plan Operativo Anual - POA.
CDPMM. Febrero de 2002. Informe de Seguimiento y Evaluación - Segundo Semestre de
2001.
CDPMM. Diciembre de 2002. Informe de Seguimiento y Evaluación - Segundo Semestre de
2002.
CDPMM. Junio de 2003. Informe de Seguimiento y Evaluación - Primer Semestre de 2003.
CDPMM. Febrero de 2004. Informe de Seguimiento y Evaluación - Segundo Semestre de
2003.
CDPMM. Mayo de 2004. Informe de Seguimiento y Evaluación - Primer Semestre de 2004.

PNUD.      Noviembre 22 de 2001.          Acuerdo Pentapartito COL/01/031: PNUD, DNP,
ECOPETROL, CDPMM, ACCI.

Universidad Nacional de Colombia.       Centro de Investigaciones para el Desarrollo - CID.
Noviembre de 2003.     Informe Final de la Evaluación Externa del Segundo Crédito de
Aprendizaje e Innovación (LIL II) del Programa de Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio.

Uribe, Eduardo. Mayo de 2004. Estudio Ambiental del Programa de Desarrollo y Paz del
Magdalena Medio.

World Bank. 1997. Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Colombia.
World Bank. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$5.0 million
to Colombia for the Second Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project.. September 20,
2001.
World Bank.    Loan Agreement for the Second Magdalena Medio Regional Development
Project. October 5, 2001.
World Bank. June, 2002. "Rapid-Results" Learning Initiative in LCSES - Phase I Report
World Bank/LAC - En Breve. Junio de 2002. Colombia: Desarrollo y Paz en la Región del
Magdalena Medio.
World Bank/Conflict Prevention and Reconstruction Unit - Dissemination Notes. November,
2002. Colombia: Development and Peace in the Magdalena Medio Region.
World Bank. 2002 to 2004. Project Status Reports (PSRs).
World Bank. 2001 to 2004. Aide-Memoires and Back-to-Office Reports.




                                             - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR

 Aportes del Departamento Nacional.

 A.    Balance

 El proyecto de Desarrollo y Paz en el Magdalena Medio ha cimentado un proceso regional de
 empoderamiento social, mejoramiento en las condiciones de vida de grupos vulnerables, incremento
 de la gobernabilidad y fortalecimiento institucional.

 El proceso ha generado lecciones de política, reflejadas en el diseño de la "Estrategia de Desarrollo
 en Zonas Deprimidas y de Conflicto", del Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2002-2006. Dicha estrategia
 reconoce las fallas del modelo de inversión central tradicional en regiones con instituciones débiles,
 fragmentación social e inequidad, rentas en conflicto y elevados índices de violencia.               En
 consecuencia, plantea una estrategia de desarrollo regional alternativo, integral y con enfoque
 territorial, en el cual se promueven alianzas con la sociedad civil. Los principales aliados son los
 Programas de Desarrollo y Paz, resaltándose la experiencia del Magdalena Medio.

 El Magdalena Medio es actualmente el principal referente para el desarrollo de esta política. Su
 ejecución será posible gracias el proyecto "Paz y Desarrollo", a financiarse con recursos de un
 préstamo tipo APL del Banco Mundial, y a los proyectos de Laboratorios de Paz, cofinanciados por la
 Unión Europea. De hecho, el enfoque metodológico probado en el Magdalena Medio ha orientado el
 diseño de un programa nacional en el cual se complementan y articulan geográfica, institucional y
 temáticamente los proyectos y fuentes mencionados.

 B.    Lecciones principales

 A continuación se presentan algunas de las principales lecciones del proyecto desde la perspectiva
 del Departamento Nacional de Planeación.

 1.    El mecanismo de préstamo de aprendizaje e innovación LIL

    El mecanismo fue adecuado y pertinente para ejecutar el proyecto, dadas las características
    regionales de violencia, inequidad, fragilidad social e institucional. Su flexibilidad, escala y
    condiciones de operación permitieron desarrollar la aproximación de "abajo hacia arriba", con un
    grado de focalización satisfactorio. Así mismo permitió probar nuevas formas de desarrollo
    participativo que están siendo proyectadas hacia otros programas de desarrollo y paz y el mismo
    proyecto Paz y Desarrollo.

    Sin embargo, para regiones y proyectos de esta naturaleza, la duración estimada de 5 años de un
    LIL puede ser insuficiente, dadas las condiciones iniciales y el trabajo gradual de empoderamiento
    social y fortalecimiento institucional requeridos. Por lo tanto, y después de analizar la experiencia
    en cuestión, se recomienda considerar escenarios graduales de siete u ocho años, tal como
    finalmente ocurrió en este caso.

    Así mismo, la fase de formulación y preparación de la operación a nivel regional (inter alia
    fortalecimiento organizacional, conocimiento y manejo de procedimientos Banco Mundial, arreglos
    institucionales, diseño del sistema de monitoreo y evaluación, levantamiento de línea de base y
    estrategia de participación) debe tener una mayor duración e intensidad, antes de iniciar
    formalmente la ejecución. Algunos de estos aspectos fueron abordados durante la ejecución,
    demandando importantes esfuerzos y recursos para la Corporación de Desarrollo y Paz (CDPMM)
    y un costo de oportunidad resultante en términos de eficiencia.




                                                  - 36 -

2.  Diálogo de políticas

  La experiencia del Magdalena Medio ha demostrado la necesidad de promover diálogos de
  políticas públicas a nivel regional, así como entre las regiones y el nivel central. Casos como las
  alianzas para acceder a líneas de crédito de FINAGRO, que permitió superar una barrera de
  entrada gracias al rol de la CDPMM, dejan lecciones claras sobre la necesidad de formular
  políticas y programas con las regiones. La línea FINAGRO ha tenido deficiencias en focalización
  debido en parte a un diseño que no permite el fácil acceso a los campesinos. El proyecto de
  Desarrollo y Paz logró diseñar una estrategia para cumplir con este propósito, la cual está siendo
  replicada para el nuevo proyecto de Paz y Desarrollo.

  Otro ejemplo lo constituyen las EBIS, las cuales están siendo analizadas detenidamente por el
  Ministerio de Educación, gracias a sus importantes resultados y potencial de replicabilidad a nivel
  nacional.

  En términos generales, las propuestas municipales elaboradas por los núcleos de pobladores son
  el fundamento de un acercamiento entre gobiernos locales y comunidades para la profundización
  de la descentralización y la democracia participativa. Los principios de rendición conjunta de
  cuentas, corresponsabilidad y concertación han guiado estas dinámicas de incremento de la
  gobernabilidad. A su vez, los Consejos Territoriales de Planeación fortalecidos juegan un rol
  importante a nivel departamental, aportando una visión de región, acorde con las dinámicas
  sociales, culturales y económicas. Una muestra concreta del trabajo en la línea mencionada lo
  constituye el ejercicio de voto programático en 15 de los 29 municipios.

  En el nuevo proyecto, se espera incidir en las políticas y programas departamentales y nacionales,
  promoviendo escenarios participativos análogos, para la            concertación y el desarrollo
  programático de políticas. Sin embargo, la participación del nivel nacional será sistemática, para
  garantizar este propósito.

  En síntesis, se puede asumir que la sostenibilidad e impacto regional de este tipo de proyectos
  depende en buena medida del logro de un diálogo de políticas.

3.  Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto

  Un aspecto limitante en el proyecto fue la ausencia de una gerencia o unidad coordinadora en el
  nivel nacional. El DNP cumplió un rol de acompañamiento en el Comité Técnico Nacional, y
  brindó apoyo técnico y administrativo en menor medida, pues no se diseñó en el proyecto un
  núcleo básico de profesionales expresamente dedicado a la Corporación ­CDPMM-. La labor
  pedagógica y de interlocución de un núcleo de esta naturaleza incrementa la eficiencia y eficacia
  del proyecto y se considera necesaria para apoyar procesos regionales, más cuando las
  organizaciones socias no tienen experiencia previa en procedimientos y reglamentos del Banco
  Mundial. Esta lección ha sido asimilada en el Proyecto Paz y Desarrollo.

4.  Las Alianzas público-privadas

  La Corporación de Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio es hoy en día un socio respetado por el
  Estado, los pobladores e instituciones regionales y nacionales. Este respeto se ha fundado en la
  transparencia, capacidad de rendir cuentas, presencia permanente en las regiones y apoyo
  progresivo a procesos sociales de ocupación productiva del territorio. La confianza es su principal
  activo y un potencial "detonante" de saltos no líneales en los patrones regionales de desarrollo
  integral. A su vez, esta alianza está dejando saldos de recuperación de la institucionalidad
  permanente, al incrementar la calidad ciudadana y acercarla a sus gobernantes.




                                              - 37 -

5.    Monitoreo y evaluación

   Como se ha mencionado anteriormente, el sistema de monitoreo como herramienta gerencial de
   apoyo a la toma de decisiones y a la sistematización de procesos, se desarrolló en una fase
   relativamente avanzada del proyecto. Aún cuando su aplicación es satisfactoria actualmente, se
   sacrificó su utilidad en cierto grado por este desfase en el tiempo. En consecuencia, la
   recomendación del DNP es diseñar este tipo de sistemas antes de iniciar o, a lo sumo, en una
   fase temprana de la ejecución.

   Con respecto al área de evaluación, el proyecto no incluyó una evaluación de impacto; aspecto
   que se recomienda considerar en futuras operaciones LIL, dada su utilidad demostrada en la
   orientación de políticas.

6.    El Banco Mundial como socio estratégico

   Por último, el DNP resalta el apoyo del Banco Mundial a lo largo de la ejecución del proyecto. El
   Banco asesoró técnica, financiera y administrativamente a la Corporación y a los beneficiarios
   directos, fortaleciendo además la confianza de los pobladores e instituciones hacia el proyecto. En
   el Comité Técnico Nacional, su participación orientó a las entidades de gobierno, y asesoró la
   toma de decisiones para lograr el cumplimiento de los objetivos y resultados.

   El Banco Mundial ha sido incondicional en el desarrollo de estos proyectos, entendiendo su
   dinámica, gradualidad y esencia de proceso. La fase LIL ha terminado, y gracias al respaldo de
   esta institución hoy el Gobierno de Colombia ha podido llevar al nivel nacional una experiencia
   exitosa, en un grado de consolidación que permite replicar sus lecciones y aprendizajes,
   avanzando de esta manera en la construcción de los fundamentos económicos, sociales e
   institucionales de la paz.



Aportes de la Corporación Desarollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio - CDPMM.

EL PROCESO REGIONAL Y EL LIL

Un PROCESO de desarrollo integral que se pone en evidencia. En la implementación del segundo
crédito del Banco Mundial LIL, la mayor parte de los participantes, en núcleos de pobladores, en
proyectos y en la     Corporación Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio, comprendieron mejor y
pudieron expresar conceptualmente el PROCESO puesto en marcha. En esta etapa se entiende que
el PDPMM es un conjunto de redes de pobladores que articulan núcleos de ciudadanos, equipos
técnico pedagógicos, participantes en iniciativas    sociales y educativas; directivos de empresas
agrícolas y productivas; comerciantes, miembros de instituciones públicas y organizaciones aliadas;
grupos de pescadores de mujeres y de jóvenes, activistas de derechos humanos y paz; de salud
sexual y reproductiva y seguridad alimentaria; comunicadores de radios comunitarias y periódicos
locales, alcaldes, concejales    de los pueblos y consejeros del sistema regional de planeación,
personas vinculadas a la vida religiosa, artistas e investigadores. Estas redes complejas trabajan
juntas, desde posiciones diversas, unidas en unos pocos principios básicos para construir una región
sin pobreza y sin violencia, con sostenibilidad institucional y medioambiental, en buscan de una
salida democrática, justa, y en ampliación creciente de la calidad de vida de sus pobladores.

Un PROCESO identificable por sus participantes y sus interlocutores. Se identifica como           una
construcción colectiva (no como un MODELO de desarrollo) y una construcción en expansión. De
esto son conscientes tanto los socios de las organizaciones populares y sectores de la sociedad civil,
como las entidades internacionales y el gobierno nacional y local. Por, eso el PROCESO hace que a
partir de líneas de acción surgidas de la implementación del Marco Lógico, aparezcan nuevos
proyectos que enriquecen al Marco Lógico y llaman a nuevas actividades (el fríjol de la Cordillera de
San Lucas salta a escenarios de mercados internacionales, el bananito exporta dos toneladas




                                               - 38 -

semanales a Europa, la Ciudadela Educativa se transforma en la institución zonal de educación
oficial para los 17 mil habitantes de la comuna 7 de Barrancabermeja, el proyecto local de
Micoahumado se convierte en un Espacio Humanitario de desarrollo campesino). El PROCESO se
identifica porque avanza hacia la descentralización creciente, para que la dotación de capacidades y
la toma de decisiones se haga cada vez más en las bases empoderadas de la población. Esto lleva al
fortalecimiento de los planes de núcleos, a elevar el poder de decisión de las subregiones, y a la
disminución del equipo central de la CDPMM. El PROCESO se posiciona regionalmente porque la
vida humana y los derechos humanos fundamentales con las implicaciones de responsabilidad
personal e institucional se colocan como una condición previa a toda iniciativa social, por eso se crea
el Espacio de Trabajadores y Trabajadoras de Derechos Humanos que reúne a los activistas de
Barrancabermeja; se crea la Comisión Intersectorial de vida, justicia y paz, en la que participa el
PDPMM con la Fiscalía, la Vicepresidencia de la República, la Fiscalía, la Defensoría del Pueblo, la
Alcaldía, los militares, la policía, las organizaciones populares y de Derechos Humanos. El
PROCESO se identifica porque es radicalmente incluyente y sostienen que nadie tiene que irse del
Magdalena Medio, por eso se participa en los gobierno comunales del Presidente Uribe, se hacen
proyectos con desplazados, se hacen alianzas con empresarios como Merieléctrica, las empresas
palmeras Bucarelia y Monterrey; se participa en la solución de conflictos al interior de las
organizaciones sociales como el conflicto entre ECOPETROL y la USO. Se identifica porque sus
participantes reconocen que hay un conflicto interno en Colombia y en la región y que este conflicto
se resuelve con el diálogo, por eso cada proyecto es concebido como un instrumento para superar el
conflicto y se busca expresamente la interlocución con los grupos armados ilegales que se desplazan
por el territorio para exigir respeto al proceso de la sociedad civil y para invitarlos a participar
desde ahora en la construcción de la convivencia. Se identifica por la centralidad dada a la finca
campesina de seguridad alimentaria con un proyecto líder vinculado al mercado con visión
empresarial y asociación de productores; producto que es diversificado de acuerdo con los suelos y
los niveles de altura, desde los productos tropicales permanentes y los pequeños hatos ganaderos,
pasando por los cultivos industriales semipermanentes, hasta la producción de granos, frutas,
verduras y yerbas aromáticas. Se identifica por el referente institucional y por eso los núcleos
participan en la elaboración de los Planes de Ordenamiento Territorial y en los planes de desarrollo
municipal.

Un PROCESO que se vuelve sostenible. Al concluir el segundo préstamo del Banco Mundial el
Proceso del Magdalena Medio ha tenido el apoyo de tres gobiernos (las administraciones Samper,
Pastrana y Uribe). El último gobierno toma elementos centrales del PDPMM para establecer en el
Plan de Desarrollo una estrategia de programas de paz y desarrollo regionales, que tiene financiación
de BIRF ; y en los proyectos existentes del PDPMM hay operaciones de crédito de largo plazo en
palma africana campesina, en cacao, y - a punto de hacerse efectivo ­ en Cotrasalba. Los proyectos
educativos de las EBIS y de Ciudadela Educativa se han vuelto proyectos de educación pública, y la
CDPMM ha entrado ha ejecutar el Laboratorio de Paz del Magdalena Medio, resultado de un acuerdo
entre la Unión Europea y el Gobierno, con base en la ACCI- Presidencia de la República, y con
contrapartida de la RED ­ Presidencia de la República, con un horizonte de tiempo de 7 años a partir
del 2003. Más importante, a pesar de la dureza del conflicto, el PDPMM ha logrado hacerse respetar
por los actores armados y legales hasta convertirse en un proceso política y socialmente viable.

LA CORPORACIÓN DESARROLLO Y PAZ

El aporte más importante dado por el Banco Mundial al PROCESO del Magdalena Medio fue la
dotación de capacidades institucionales      de la CDPMM y, a través de la CDPMM, en un
desenvolvimiento en cascada, la dotación de capacidades institucionales a las oficinas subregionales
de la Corporación, a los núcleos de pobladores, y        a las organizaciones participantes en los
proyectos. Este aporte dotó a la CDPMM, y con ella a los demás niveles, con instrumentos para la
vinculación de personal (términos de referencia, selección, condiciones de trabajo), contratación (
manuales de procedimiento, fórmulas de contrato, condicionalidades), agendas de implementación,
elaboración de proyectos, procedimientos de evaluación y seguimiento (línea de base, indicadores
de resultados, informes periódicos).




                                              - 39 -

Gracias a esta dotación la CDPMM fue seleccionada por la Unión Europea, después de la visita de
tres comisiones técnicas que recorrieron a Colombia, como la institución de sociedad civil mejor
preparada para implementar el primer Laboratorio de Paz. La puesta en marcha por la CDPMM de la
ejecución del Laboratorio no hubiese sido posible sin la dotación de capacidades lograda en los dos
proyectos con el Banco Mundial.

EL LABORATORIO DE PAZ

Es indispensable leer el "efecto LIL" sobre el Magdalena Medio desde la perspectiva que aparece con
la entrada de la contribución europea a la paz y el desarrollo regional. Efectivamente, lo que se logra
con el LIL es poner en marcha un proceso social e institucional, ciudadano y estatal, que no es
sustituido, ni reemplazado por la Unión Europea. Lo que hace Europa es comprender lo que significa
este PROCESO y entrar a fortalecerlo con nuevos recursos, a profundizarlo en el fortalecimiento
institucional, a lanzarlo a un tiempo más largo, y finalmente a respetarlo como un proceso sólido, que
tiene claridad sobre los principios y los objetivos que lo mueven. Es cierto que esta comprensión por
parte de la Delegación Europea no fue inmediata. Tomó a los europeos por lo menos 18 meses de
intercambios llegar a comprender que estaban ante un proceso que tenía identidad propia y era lo
suficientemente fuerte para mantenerse en el tiempo impulsando el desarrollo y la paz que puede
hacerse en el Magdalena Medio.
Al concluir los Learning and Innovation Loans, lo que se hace en el Magdalena Medio es el proceso
que se lanzó desde el LIL I y fue consolidado en el LIL II, proceso que identifican los pobladores y las
instituciones como PROGRAMA DE DESARROLLO Y PAZ DEL MAGDALENA MEDIO. Este proceso
lo forman los pobladores organizados y capacitados que implementan el Laboratorio de Paz, junto
con las organizaciones e instituciones públicas aliadas, para llevar hasta las mejores consecuencias
posibles lo emprendido en el PDPMM.

APRENDIZAJES SIGNIFICATIVOS

Eficiencia en la gestión. Gracias a las normas incorporadas y a los mecanismos de control sobre la
aplicación de las normas fue posible, en el LIL II, acelerar significativamente las operaciones de
iniciar la implementación de un      proyectos, hacer ejecuciones programadas para un período de
tiempo, justificar las ejecuciones, presentar resultados de avance y acelerar los giros de recursos a
los ejecutores. Este conjunto de operaciones pasó de hacerse en tres meses a hacerse en 20 días. El
aprendizaje logrado ha sido muy útil al permitir a la CDPMM tomar una posición preactiva y de
liderazgo en el conjunto institucional de la Delegación Europea, la ACCI y la Red de Solidaridad que
no tienen experiencia de ejecución en el terreno del Magdalena Medio.

Incorporación de aliados. El fortalecimiento administrativo permitió incorporar socios para el
desarrollo de proyectos complementarios. Estos socios se articularon con la Corporación de
Desarrollo y Paz en unos casos, como aconteció con la empresa MERIELÉCTRICA en Ciudadela
Educativa. Pero en otros casos la relación se hizo directamente con los ETP o los proyectos. Así los
ETPs de Sur de Bolívar y Sur Sur de Bolívar ejecutaron con la Embajada del Japón carreteras
terciarias y puentes. Con la OIM hicieron un proyecto de vivienda las fincas campesinas de palma
de San Pablo , y otro en Gamarra con una organización de mujeres. Con la alcaldía de este pueblo
se hizo el sistema de agua potable. Con la embajada suiza Merquemos Juntos amplió el fondo
rotatorio con un nuevo producto: préstamos para matricula universitaria en la región. Las mujeres
palmeras de San Martín, con un grupo de colombinas residentes en Francia, crearon una empresa
de guantes de cuero. Asocalima, la empresa de fríjoles de Santa Rosa, hizo convenios directos con
Naciones Unidas y Carrefour, mientras que con la Corporación se alió con FUPAD para ampliar en 60
el número de fincas asociadas. Con la Corporación Colombia Internacional se puso en marcha el
proyecto de yuca de San Pablo. De esta manera, al tiempo que se multiplicaban los apoyos al
proceso regional, se ponía en evidencia la descentralización en la formación de las alianzas.

Socios operadores. Se aprendió a vincular organizaciones e instituciones con capacidad para operar
los proyectos. Estos socios traen las capacidades que no tiene la CDPMM y contribuyen a dinamizar,
diversificar y enriquecer el proceso. Al tiempo que ayudan a la CDPMM a concentrarse en las



                                                 - 40 -

funciones que les son propias: tareas estratégicas de coordinación, orientación, gestión general,
responsabilidad de políticas de paz, y catalización de recursos. Entre los aliados operadores cabe
señalar a CORPOICA en ganadería, CINEP en educación y la Asociación de Emisoras Comunitarias
del Magdalena Medio en comunicaciones.

La propuesta municipal. Este elemento original del PDPMM volvió a tomar fuerza con el proceso de
descentralización del segundo LIL y al final de 2003 se convirtió en el fundamento de la planeación
del Plan Operativo Anual del Laboratorio de Paz. La Propuesta, trabajada desde la convocatoria que
hacen los núcleos, crea un espacio de conversación entre los pobladores para definir y mejorar
continuamente lo que se propone los habitantes para asegurar que en el municipio se pongan en
marcha iniciativas y proyectos que den por terminada la pobreza y la violencia en un intercambio de
apoyos y responsabilidades compartidas entre las instituciones y los ciudadanos. En municipios como
Landázuri, Bolívar, Peñón, Wilches, y Puerto Parra, la dinámica de la Propuesta Municipal, con
participación de los alcaldes, fue central en la elaboración del Plan de desarrollo.

La vinculación al mercado financiero. En el proyecto de palma africana campesina se aprendió la
ventaja que tiene el crédito, sobre el capital semilla donado, para hacer un proceso autosostenible y
para lograr el control de los propios pobladores sobre la producción de sus fincas. Los pequeños
palmeros, que tomaron créditos con ICR, fueron más eficientes en el uso del tiempo, de los insumos
y de la tecnología; y lograron mejores niveles de ahorro y capitalización, que los productores de
cacao que trabajaron con donación. Al terminar el LIL los cacaoteros tenían preparadas las
condiciones para tomar crédito. Al finalizar el LIL los cupos de créditos tomados por las empresas
vinculadas al PDPMM, en la banca nacional, son del orden de 2.5 millones de dólares.

La institucionalización del proceso. e igualmente con instituciones como la Defensoría del Pueblo, la
Red de Solidaridad, la Campaña Colombiana contra Minas impulsada por la Vicepresidencia, las
secretarías de educación, y las Unidades Municipales de Asistencia Técnica. Un ejemplo notable es
la conformación de la dirección ejecutiva de la Asociación de Alcaldes que queda en manos de una
persona que se educó en dentro del PDPMM. Esta Asociación busca llegar a incorporar a todos los
alcaldes del Magdalena Medio.

Sinergias entre aliados. El segundo LIL concluye con un alto grado de acciones comunes entre los
diversos aliados del PDPMM. Con LA RED DE SOLIDARIDAD se desarrollaron acciones conjuntas
para apoyar a poblaciones vulnerables en la Serranía de San Lucas, San Pablo, la Cuenca del Valle
del Río Cimitarra, el corregimiento de la India y la Ciénaga del Opón. Con la OFICINA DE LA
PRIMERA DAMA se impulsaron proyectos de artesanías y aprendizajes de oficios. ECOPETROL
tuvo una contribución fundacional en el PDPMM y continuó durante el segundo LIL como aportante
de la contrapartida nacional. Además la Empresa Colombiana de Petróleo participó directamente con
nuevos recursos y apoyos técnicos en proyectos como la ladrillera de COTRASALBA, Merquemos
Juntos, la Ciudadela Educativa, Palma Africana Campesina, CEPIM, la Asociación de Tenderos y el
Centro de Estudios Económicos de Barrancabermeja. La Unión Sindical Obrera, USO, que estuvo
igualmente en el origen del PDPMM mantuvo relaciones continuas con el Programa durante el
segundo LIL participando en conversatorios         y actividades de solidaridad con las comunidades
particularmente en el área de Barrancabermeja. PLANEACIÓN NACIONAL puso la experiencia del
Magdalena Medio en el centro de la conversación del desarrollo llevando el tema del desarrollo
regional y la paz al Plan Nacional de Desarrollo; tuvo una veeduría continua sobre el proceso y fue el
escenario de los diálogos en torno a los temas que podían se significativos a nivel nacional; en ese
foro el DNP convocó a la ACCI, y a otras instancias gubernamentales. El MINISTERIO DE
AGRICULTURA impulsó con el Programa el crédito con Incentivo de Capitalización Rural para los
pequeños campesinos, enfatizado el apoyo a los cultivos permanentes; gracias a este apoyo
FINAGRO se vinculó activamente con la Región y apoyó la entrada de los Bancos Agrario, de
Colombia y Caja Social. La Corporación para el Desarrollo de la Cuenca del Río Magdalena,
CORMAGDALENA, se unió con recursos para apoyar el proyecto forestal del Carare Opón y para la
recuperación de ciénagas y humedales. El MINISTERIO DE EDUCACIÓN apoyó significativamente
al proyecto de Ciudadela Educativa que se convirtió en institución de carácter público. La DIÓCESIS
DE BARRANCABERMEJA unió con el PDPMM los trabajos de pastoral social y el proyecto de



                                                 - 41 -

Barrancabermeja Ciudad Región de Paz. CINEP apoyó los procesos educativos y las discusiones
estratégicas. El PROGRAMA DE NACIONES UNIDAS PARA EL DESARROLLO PNUD, fue un
aliado directo en los proyectos de la zona minera de la Serranía de San Lucas y en los estudios sobre
la economía y la política de la coca, al tiempo que incorporó al PDPMM en su propuesta de paz
nacional. Con el FONDO MUNDIAL DE POBLACIÓN se trabajó en todos los municipios. Otras
alianzas significativas fueron con la OIM, y con FUPAD. El BANCO MUNDIAL convirtió las visitas de
evaluación al Proyecto en verdaderas sesiones de aprendizaje colectivo que permitieron preparar el
nuevo crédito para Programas de Paz y Desarrollo que será, entre otras cosas, la contrapartida de los
Laboratorios de Paz. Durante el segundo LIL se alcanza una constante articulación con los poderes
locales: gobernadores, alcaldes y consejos municipales. Muy significativo fue el nombramiento como
Director Ejecutivo de la Asociación de Alcaldes de un exalcalde que se formó en el núcleo de
pobladores del PDPMM en Santa Rosa del sur y fue luego alcalde de esa ciudad. Alcaldías como
Landázuri, San Vicente, Puerto Parra, Puerto Berrío, Barrancabermeja, Arenal, San Pablo, Puerto
Nare, Puerto Berrío y Gamarra, tienen relaciones fuertes con el Programa. Finalmente el Presidente
de la República establece una relación con el PDPMM que puede calificarse de reconocimiento,
apoyo y respeto. Esto se evidencia en el gobierno comunal de Barrancabermeja, en la manera como
destaca los logros el Programa en sus visitas a Santa Rosa y El Carmen, y en haber aceptado las
invitaciones hechas por el PDPMM a conversar sobre temas de derechos humanos, gobernabilidad y
desarrollo campesino.




                                               - 42 -

- 43 -

