Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7078-CO
Implementation Agreement
(Second Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CORPORACIÓN DE DESARROLLO Y PAZ
DEL MAGDALENA MEDIO
Dated October 5, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7078-CO
IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 5, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the Corporación de Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio 
(CDPMM).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the  Republic of 
Colombia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount of five million Dollars ($5,000,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Loan Agreement, provided that CDPMM agrees to undertake such 
obligations as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by an Administration and Execution Contract to be entered into among, 
inter alia, the Borrower (through DNP), CDPMM, ECOPETROL, ACCI and UNDP, the proceeds 
of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to CDPMM on 
the terms and conditions set forth in said Administration and Execution Contract; and
WHEREAS CDPMM, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. CDPMM declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to 
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. CDPMM shall carry out or cause to be carried out, the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
Section 2.04. CDPMM shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Administration and Execution Contract. Except as the Bank and the Borrower 
(through DNP) shall otherwise agree, CDPMM shall not take or concur in any action 
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the 
Administration and Execution Contract or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) CDPMM shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank and the Borrower (through DNP) with regard to progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Administration and 
Execution Contract, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
CDPMM shall promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower (through DNP) of 
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by CDPMM of 
its obligations under this Agreement and/or under the Administration and Execution 
Contract.
Section 2.06.  (a) CDPMM shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of a manual, agreed by CDPMM with DNP and satisfactory to the Bank (the 
Operational Manual), containing, inter alia: (i) the detailed rules and procedures for 
the approval and financing of  Subprojects and Núcleo Plans; (ii) a negative list of 
activities that cannot be carried out under Subprojects (so as to be excluded, inter 
alia, activities that would be classifiable as category A for environmental purposes 
pursuant to Annex B of the Bank’s December 1998 policy document entitled Good 
Practices (GP) 4.01); (iii) detailed social, economic, financial, technical and 
environmental criteria for screening and selecting Subprojects; and (iv) mandatory 
safeguards and mitigation actions for any such Subprojects, which could possibly have 
a negative environmental impact such as, in particular, through use of any pesticides, 
increase in deforestation, pollution of groundwater, negative impacts on endangered 
species, increased pesticide level in food, increased soil erosion, impacts on parks 
and protected areas, and encroachment on natural habitats; and 
(b)
Except as the Bank and the Borrower (through DNP) shall otherwise agree, 
CDPMM shall not amend, waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual, or any 
provision thereof.  In case of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement 
and the Loan Agreement and those of the Operational Manual, the provisions of this 
Agreement and of the Loan Agreement shall prevail.
Section 2.07.  For the purposes of carrying out Part B.2 of the Project, CDPMM 
Page  3
shall: 
(a)
after having approved a Núcleo Plan, enter into an agreement (the Núcleo 
Agreement) with a representative of a Núcleo, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Operational Manual; and
(b)
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under any Núcleo 
Agreement, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank and the Borrower 
(through DNP) shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to 
enforce any Núcleo Agreement or provision thereof.
Section 2.08.  For the purposes of carrying out Parts C.2 and D.2 of the 
Project, CDPMM shall: 
(a)
after having selected a Productive Subproject or a Social Subproject, 
enter into an agreement (the Subproject Agreement) with an Eligible Participant, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual (which 
terms shall include the obligation of the Eligible Participant to provide a 
counterpart amount of Subproject financing from its own non-Transfer sources, equal to 
at least the amount of local taxes incurred in undertaking the Subproject in 
question); and
(b)
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under any Subproject 
Agreement, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank and the Borrower 
(through DNP) shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to 
enforce any Subproject Agreement or provision thereof.
Section 2.09.  CDPMM shall ensure that financing of a Subproject under Part C.2 
or D.2 of the Project be made solely to finance a legally permissible and productive 
purpose and not to finance mere consumption or transfers of ownership or to establish 
lines of credit; consequently, the financing cannot be used to finance, for example, 
debts and liabilities, the purchase of land, food, securities, inventory for resale, 
goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose, or existing real estate, but it 
can be used to finance, for example, construction of a workshop, purchase of store 
fixtures or purchase of machinery, tools and materials to be used by the Eligible 
Participant in a manufacturing process.
Section 2.10.  CDPMM shall:
(a)
by no later than December 1 of each year (with the exception of the first 
year), until completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank for its approval, an 
operating plan previously agreed by DNP (the Annual Operating Plan) for the 
implementation of the Project during the subsequent twelve months, such plan to 
include, inter alia: (i) the main activities to be carried out under the Project; (ii) 
the objectives and expected outputs of such activities; (iii) the corresponding cost 
estimates and budgets, including counterpart funds; (iv) relevant institutional 
arrangements and responsibilities; and (v) a procurement plan;
(b)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, all in an manner satisfactory to the Bank and applying the 
Indicators;
(c)
furnish to the Bank and to the Borrower (through DNP), not later than 
December 1 and June 1 of each year during the execution of the Project, a report, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall request, and based on the monitoring 
and evaluation carried out pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section, on the progress 
of the Project during the six-month period preceding the date of such report; 
(d)
conduct a mid-term review with the Bank and the Borrower (through DNP), 
fourteen months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, of the progress of the Project, based on the reports referred to in paragraph 
(c) of this Section; and
Page  4
(e)
carry out each Annual Operation Plan referred to in paragraph (a) above, 
as well as the plan referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.11. For purposes of supplementing the obligations set forth in 
paragraph (b) of Section 2.10 of this Agreement, CDPMM shall employ the services of an 
external evaluator for the Project in a timely fashion and shall cause such evaluator 
to submit two external evaluation reports to the Bank and DNP not later than September 
2002 and September 2003, or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
CDPMM and the Bank.
Section 2.12. No later than one month after the Effective Date, CDPMM shall hire 
the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.13. CDPMM shall cooperate fully with the Borrower so as to allow full 
compliance with the Borrower’s obligation set forth in Section 3.04 of the Loan 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of  CDPMM
Section 3.01. CDPMM shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers and in accordance with the provisions of the Procedures and Policies 
Manual, said manual to contain the internal procedures and policies applicable to the 
operations of CDPMM.
Section 3.02. CDPMM shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
environmental practices.
Section 3.03. CDPMM shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. Without limitation of its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, CDPMM shall maintain within its staff, throughout the Project execution, an 
environmental specialist or a team of environmental specialists, satisfactory to the 
Bank, who shall carry out the environmental screening and subsequent supervision of 
Subprojects as required by the Operational Manual. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CDPMM shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect 
its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
CDPMM shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses by Project component and 
disbursement category and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank and the Borrower (through DNP) as soon as 
Page  5
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end 
of each such year: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank and the Borrower (through DNP) such other 
information concerning such records, accounts and financial 
statements, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
CDPMM shall furnish to the Bank and the Borrower (through DNP), not later 
than December 31 and June 30 of each year during the execution of the Project, 
starting December 31, 2001, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested, which shall include, inter alia, information on 
Project’s expenditures (by Project component and disbursement category) for the 
six-month period preceding the date of such report.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CDPMM 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CDPMM thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For CDPMM:
Corporación Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio
Calle 33 No. 6-94 Piso 10 
Bogotá, Colombia
Page  6
Facsimile:
(571) 
285-2024
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CDPMM may be 
taken or executed by the General Director of CDPMM or such other person or persons as 
the General Director shall designate in writing, and CDPMM shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Bogotá, Colombia, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Authorized Representative
CORPORACIÓN DE DESARROLLO Y PAZ
   DEL MAGDALENA MEDIO
By /s/ Francisco De Roux
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines), and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
Page  7
1.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent per contract or less may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement under Subprojects
Goods and works to be procured by Eligible Participants for Subprojects shall be 
procured in accordance with the procedures specified in the Operational Manual, which 
shall provide that: (a) works shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully; and (b) goods shall be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in paragraph C.1 above or if such procedures are not 
feasible under a specific Subproject, through direct contracting procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts during any calendar 
year of Project implementation, the proposed procurement plan for the Project for such 
year shall be included in the relevant plan referred to in Section 2.10 (e) of this 
Agreement and furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all 
goods and works during any such year shall be undertaken in accordance with the 
corresponding procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to the contracts for goods to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Part B of this Section I.  
(b)
With respect to the first contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part C.1 above, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of the supplier, CDPMM shall provide to the 
Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of the contract, CDPMM shall provide to the 
Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to the review by the Bank of any contract not governed by the provisions of 
paragraph 2 above.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  8
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The short-list of consultants for services to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in paragraph 1 above, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultants’ services estimated to cost less than $70,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $250,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Technical assistance in the areas of education, health, regional planning and 
others, requiring knowledge of local conditions and/or established presence of the 
service provider in the community may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of $250,000 equivalent.
3.
Consultant Services under Subprojects
Services to assist in the carrying out of  Subprojects shall be procured by 
Eligible Participants in accordance with the procedures specified in the Operational 
Manual, which shall provide that such services shall be procured: (a) in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines; or 
(b) in accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Bank; or (c) in 
accordance with Part C.4 below.
4.
Individual Consultants
Consultants' services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, shall be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals during any 
calendar year of Project implementation, the proposed plan for the selection of 
consultants under the Project for such year shall be included in the relevant plan 
referred to in Section 2.10 (e) of this Agreement and furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services during any such year 
Page  9
shall be undertaken in accordance with the corresponding selection plan as shall have 
been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to the first contract for the employment of consulting firms 
and each of the contracts to undertake the external evaluations referred to in Section 
2.10 of this Agreement, irrespective of their estimated cost, the procedures set forth 
in paragraph 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultants Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (ii) irrespective 
of their estimated cost, in the case of those individuals who shall occupy CDPMM 
positions of general director and administrative and financial coordinator, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for the employment of individual 
consultants and firms estimated to cost more than $30,000 equivalent per contract,  
shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.
