Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7078-CO
Loan Agreement
(Second Magdalena Medio Regional Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 5, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7078-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 5, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist it in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Project will be implemented by the Corporación de Desarrollo y Paz 
del Magdalena Medio (CDPMM), acting as delegate for this purpose of the Borrower’s 
Departamento Nacional de Planeación (DNP) and with the Borrower’s assistance and, as 
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for 
in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to CDPMM, as set forth in this 
Agreement; 
WHEREAS by a loan agreement dated July 10, 1998 between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank granted to the Borrower a loan in a principal amount of five million 
dollars ($5,000,000) to assist in financing the First Magdalena Medio Regional 
Development Project (the First Project);
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and CDPMM (the 
Implementation Agreement), the terms and conditions of which Implementation Agreement 
Page  2
have been approved by DNP;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: -17-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions), with the modification set forth below constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows:
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Loan and the lessons learned from the execution of the Project."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ACCI" means the Borrower’s international cooperation agency (Agencia 
Colombiana de Cooperación Internacional);
(b)
"Administration and Execution Contract" means the agreement entered into 
among the Borrower (through DNP), CDPMM, ECOPETROL, ACCI and UNDP, referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)
"CINEP" means Centro de Investigación y Educación Popular, a non-profit 
foundation established and operating in the Borrower’s territory;
(d)
"CDPMM" means the Corporation for Development and Peace of  Magdalena 
Medio (Corporación de Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio), a  non-profit 
organization duly organized by CINEP and the Diocese (as hereinafter defined) under 
the laws of the Borrower, incorporated on May 7, 2001 and registered in the 
Municipality of Barrancabermeja’s Chamber of Commerce on July 12, 2001 under number 
2,954 of book No. 1;
(e)
"Consortium" means the consortium association (Asociación Consorcial) 
between CINEP and the Diocese (as hereinafter defined), established under the First 
Project to act as a manager of the project on behalf of the Borrower;
(f)
"CTN" means Comité Técnico Nacional, the Borrower’s national technical 
committee; 
(g)
"Diocese" means the Diócesis de Barrancabermeja, a non-profit legal 
entity established by the Santa Sede (the Holy See) on October 27, 1962 and recognized 
by the Borrower pursuant to its Law 20 of 1974;
(h)
"DNP" means the Borrower’s National Planning Department (Departamento 
Nacional de Planeación), an administrative sub-division of the Borrower’s Executive 
Branch through which the Borrower has delegated Project implementation to CDPMM;
(i)
"ECOPETROL" means the Borrower’s National Petroleum Company (Empresa 
Page  3
Colombiana de Petroleos);
(j)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(k)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(l)
"Eligible Participants" means any community organization with legal 
personality, including, inter alia, small farmer organizations, women organizations, 
cooperatives, and other non-governmental organizations which may be considered 
eligible, pursuant to the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, to benefit 
from one of the Transfers (as hereinafter defined) referred to in Part C.2 and D.2 of 
the Project;
(m)
"Indicators" means the indicators set forth in Attachment I of the 
supplemental letter from DNP and CDPMM to the Bank of even date herewith;
(n)
"Magdalena Medio Region" means the geographic area which is currently 
under the jurisdiction of 29 municipalities (listed in Attachment II of the 
supplemental letter from DNP and CDPMM to the Bank of even date herewith), including 
any expansion of said area as may be agreed from time to time between the Borrower and 
the Bank;
(o)
"Núcleo" means an informal voluntary association of individuals or 
organizations, or both, operating at the municipal level, within the Magdalena Medio 
Region;
(p)
"Núcleo Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of 
the Implementation Agreement;
(q)
"Núcleo Plan" means an annual plan of activities of a Núcleo under Part 
B.1 of the Project, including the estimated budget for such activities, to be financed 
under a Transfer, all in accordance with the Operational Manual;
(r)
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 2.06 of the 
Implementation Agreement;
(s)
"Policies and Procedures Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 
3.01 of the Implementation Agreement;
(t)
"Program" means a program for development and peace of the Magdalena 
Medio Region, consisting of one or more phases coincident with, subsequent to and in 
the aggregate larger than the Project, initiated in 1996, in respect of activities in 
areas, sectors and interventions identified as priorities, such as education, health 
and environment, and which are expected to be facilitated by the carrying out of the 
Project, all with a view to reducing poverty and increasing peaceful coexistence in 
the Magdalena Medio Region;
(u)
"Productive Subproject" means a set of activities for purposes of Part 
C.2 of the Project (described in Attachment III of the supplemental letter from DNP 
and CDPMM to the Bank of even date herewith), as approved by CDPMM in accordance with 
the provisions of the Operational Manual, to be partially financed with the proceeds 
of a Transfer (as hereinafter defined);
(v)
"Social Subproject" means a set of activities for purposes of Part D.2 of 
the Project (described in Attachment III of the supplemental letter from DNP and CDPMM 
to the Bank of even date herewith), as approved by CDPMM in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual, to be partially financed with the proceeds of a 
Transfer (as hereinafter defined);
(w)
"Subprojects" means collectively the Productive Subprojects and the 
Social Subprojects;
Page  4
(x)
"Territorial Entities" means the departments, districts, municipalities 
and those other territorial entities provided for in Title XI, Chapter 13 of the 
Borrower’s Constitution and by the Borrower’s laws enacted pursuant to the provisions 
of said Chapter and regulatory Decrees thereof;
(y)
 "Transfer" means the non-reimbursable transfer of funds approved and 
made by CDPMM to either Eligible Participants or Núcleos, as the case may be, to 
finance one or more Núcleo Plans or to finance eligible expenditures incurred in the 
execution of a Subproject, all in accordance with the Operational Manual; and
(z)
"UNDP" means the United Nations Development Program, an agency of the 
United Nations.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to CDPMM.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five million 
Dollars  ($5,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works, services and incremental operating costs required for carrying out the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. Such fee shall be payable not 
later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period 
at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
Page  5
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate 
to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section 
2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless otherwise notified by the Borrower 
in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each 
Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for 
the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall, through DNP, cause CDPMM to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Implementation Agreement all the obligations of 
CDPMM therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable CDPMM to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower, through DNP, shall make the proceeds of the Loan available 
to CDPMM under an agreement to be entered into among the Borrower, CDPMM, ACCI, 
ECOPETROL and the UNDP, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the 
Administration and Execution Contract), whereby: (i) the Borrower will authorize UNDP 
to undertake, on behalf of, and following instruction from CDPMM, and UNDP will so 
undertake, the procurement of goods and services under the Project in accordance with 
the procedures set forth or referred to in the Implementation Agreement; (ii) UNDP 
will undertake to keep separate records and accounts in respect of such goods and 
services, and to assist CDPMM in all other aspects of the carrying out of the Project 
and in complying with CDPMM’s obligations under the Implementation Agreement; (iii) 
the Borrower, through DNP, will undertake to request the Bank to transfer directly to 
UNDP the proceeds of the Loan as required for UNDP to effect the payments for goods 
and services under the Project; and (iv) the Borrower will undertake to transfer to 
UNDP, or cause ECOPETROL to transfer, the counterpart (i.e., non-Loan) funds as 
required for UNDP to effect the payments for goods and services under the Project).
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Administration and Execution Contract in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, 
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change, assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive the Administration and Execution Contract, or any provision 
thereof. In case of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of 
the Administration and Execution Contract, or between the provisions of the 
Implementation Agreement and those of the Administration and Execution Contract, the 
provisions of this Agreement and of the Implementation Agreement shall prevail.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, 
works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Page  6
Implementation Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower, through DNP, and following guidelines of the 
Administration and Execution Contract, shall maintain at all times during the 
execution of the Project an inter-institutional technical committee (the National 
Technical Committee), headed by representatives of DNP and composed of representatives 
of ACCI, UNDP, ECOPETROL, and CDPMM, responsible for: (a) overseeing Project 
implementation; and (b) coordinating future projects proposed for the Program.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through DNP, with the assistance of CDPMM, 
shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed 
to ensure continued learning as a result of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.05. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out or 
caused to be carried out by CDPMM pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Implementation 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, 
through DNP, shall cause CDPMM to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower, through DNP, shall cause CDPMM to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c) (i) of 
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
Page  7
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
CDPMM shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Implementation Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which, in the opinion of the 
Bank (after consultation with the Borrower), shall make it improbable that CDPMM will 
be able to perform its obligations under the Implementation Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Operational Manual and the Policies and Procedures Manual have been 
issued and adopted by CDPMM;
(b)
the Administration and Execution Contract has become effective; and
(c)
an annual plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for Project execution during 
the first year of the Project, has been prepared by CDPMM.
Section 6.02.  The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions (one from CDPMM regarding the Implementation Agreement and the 
Administration and Execution Contract and one each from the Borrower (including DNP 
and ACCI), and ECOPETROL, regarding the Administration and Execution Contract) to be 
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Implementation Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
CDPMM, and is legally binding upon CDPMM in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Administration and Execution Contract has been duly authorized 
or ratified by each of the parties thereto and is legally binding upon said parties in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date January 7, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
Page  8
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustín
Carrera 7A, No. 6-45, Piso 3
Bogotá
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINHACIENDA
43289 MHAC CO
(571) 3509344
With copies to:
National Planning Department
Calle 26 No. 13-19
Bogotá, Colombia
Facsimile:
(57-1) 339-0221
Corporación Desarrollo y Paz del Magdalena Medio
Calle 33 No. 6-94 Piso 10 
Bogotá, Colombia
Facsimile:
(571) 285-2024
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Bogotá, Colombia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Federico Rengifo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  9
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods (except as covered by
30,000
90% 
Categories (3) and (4) below)
(2)
Consultants' services, audits,   2,300,000
100%
and training (except as covered
by Category (3) below, and
excluding any fees charged by
UNDP)
(3)
Goods, works, Incremental
   1,730,000
100% of
Operating Costs, and services
Transfer amounts
financed by Transfers
disbursed
(4)
Incremental Operating Costs
     750,000
85%
not financed by Transfers
(5)
Unallocated
     190,000
TOTAL
5,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "training" includes reasonable expenditures for training 
materials, training facilities rentals, and reasonable travel, room, board, per diem 
expenditures and facilitator’s fees; and
(b)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" includes reasonable expenditures 
incurred by CDPMM for the carrying out of the Project, such as travel costs, per diem, 
rentals, utilities, fuel, maintenance of facilities, equipment, and vehicles, 
consumable materials and supplies (which expenditures would not have been incurred 
absent the Project).
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
any expenditure under any of the Categories in the table in paragraph 1 
above, unless and until the Borrower shall have paid to the Bank in full the front-end 
fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of $500,000, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within twelve months 
prior to the date of this Agreement, but in no case earlier than January 1, 2001, 
(including, among said $500,000, payments made by the Consortium during the period 
prior to the date of  CDPMM’s incorporation).
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures: (a) under contracts that are not 
subject to prior review by the Bank pursuant to Section I, Part D.2, and Section II, 
Part D.2 of Schedule 1 to the Implementation Agreement; and (b) procured  pursuant to 
Section I, Part C.2 and Section II, Part C.3 of Schedule 1 to the Implementation 
Page  10
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to test new forms of management and operation of 
the Program in order to: (i) increase community participation and influence in local 
and regional development; (ii) strengthen the regional and local institutions within 
the Magdalena Medio Region, to make them responsible and accountable to communities; 
and (iii) produce tangible social and economic benefits for the development of the 
Magdalena Medio Region.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Program Leadership and Increased Role of Communities
1.
Provision of support for CDPMM’s leadership role in the Program, through: (a) 
the mobilization of, and technical assistance (including training) to Núcleos, 
municipalities, and local communities and organizations; (b) the improvement of 
communications within and outside the Magdalena Medio Region; (c) the outreach to 
potential partners and financiers of the Program; and (d) the strengthening of the 
monitoring, evaluation and learning system of the Project. 
2.
Testing of a new organizational and operational structure for the management of 
the Program, which includes mechanisms to transfer capacity to communities, and to 
involve their representatives in the decision-making process concerning the Program’s 
policies and financing.
3.
Provision of assistance for the preparation of future investment programs in the 
Magdalena Medio Region.
Part B:
Strengthening of Local and Regional Institutions
1.
Carrying out of a set of activities, including inter alia, capacity building, 
technical support, training, study tours, and workshops, in order to test different 
approaches for promoting improvements in local and regional institutions (public and 
private), so they respond better to the public interest and are accountable to 
communities.
2.
Provision of Transfers to Núcleos for the purposes of implementing Núcleo Plans.
Part C:
Productive Subprojects
Testing of different approaches for the effective development and implementation 
of Productive Subprojects through: 
1.
Provision of technical assistance and training to Eligible Participants for the 
preparation and implementation of Subprojects, such assistance to include feasibility 
and design studies, capacity building, and establishment of links with potential 
partners, including with Territorial Entities.
2.
Provision of Transfers to Eligible Participants, for the purposes of carrying 
out approved Productive Subprojects in the Magdalena Medio Region.
Part D:
Social Projects in Vulnerable Communities
Testing of different approaches for the development and implementation of Social 
Subprojects in vulnerable communities, through: 
1.
Provision of technical assistance and training to Eligible Participants for the 
Page  11
preparation and implementation of Subprojects.
2.
Provision of Transfers to Eligible Participants, for the purposes of carrying 
out approved Social Subprojects.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning August 15, 2011 
through August 15, 2013
20 %
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of  withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Page  12
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate. 
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
