CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1577 IVC
Loan Agreement
(Second Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 9, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1577 IVC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 9, 1978, between REPUOLIC OF THE IVORY
COAST (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER 'ATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be partly carried out by Soci&te
d'Equipement des Terrains Urbains (hereinafter called SETU) with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to Fonds National d'Assainissement
for expenditure by SETU part of the proceeds of the Loan as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and SETU;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and SETU of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project


﻿- 2 -
Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project Agree-
ment;
(b) "SETU Statuts" means the statutes of SETU as promulgated
by Decree No. 71-672 of the Borrower dated December 19, 1971, as
amended by Decree No. 75-95 of the Borrower dated January 31,
1975, as such statutes may be further amended from time to time;
(c) "1975 Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement (Abidjan
Sewerage and Drainage Project) (Loan Number 1076 IVC) between the
Borrower and the Bank dated January 17, 1975;
(d) "1976 Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement (Urban
Development Project) (Loan Number 1347 IVC) between the Borrower
and the Bank dated December 15, 1976;
(e) "1977 Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement (Second-
ary Centers Water Supply Project) (Loan Number 1484 IVC) between
the Borrower and the Bank dated September 9, 1977;
(f) "CFA francs" and "CFAF" mean francs in the currency of
the Borrower;
(g) "FNA" means the fund established for sewerage and drain-
age activities and operating within the Caisse Autonome d'Amor-
tissement of the Borrower's Ministere de 1'Economie, des Finances
et du Plan under the name Fonds National d'Assainissement, or any
successor thereto;
(h) "FNA Statuts" means the statutes of FNA as enacted by
Law No. 76-01 of the Borrower dated January 2, 1976 and by Decree
No. 76-03 of the Borrower dated January 2, 1976, as such statutes
may be amended from time to time; and
(i) "Greater Abidjan" means la commune d'Abidjan and le
Plateau du Banco, Abobo, Riviera, Riviera Nord and Bingerville.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-three million dollars ($33,000,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Ministre de l'Economie, des Finances et du
Plan of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part D.2
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and shall


﻿-4-~
provide promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall cause SETU and FNA to carry out Parts
A through D.1 and Part E of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and shall provide promptly as needed the funds, facili-
ties, services and othet resources required for the purpose as
follows:
(i) SETU shall enter into contracts for all civil
works, goods and services required for Parts A
through D.1 and Part E of the Project and shall
supervise all aspects of the implementation of such
Parts; and
(ii) FNA shall make all payments on behalf of SETU
pursuant to the contracts referred to in subpara-
graph (i) of this paragraph and the Borrower shall
provide FNA, promptly as needed, with the funds
required for such purposes, including the funds
referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause SETU to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable SETU to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(d) For the purposes of the Project and without limitation
upon paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause FNA to employ its best efforts to borrow an amount equiva-
lent to two billion, three hundred million CFAF on the best terms
and conditions available, in accordance with a timetable accept-
able to the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part D.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall, by March 31, 1979 or such other


﻿(
-5-
date as may be agreeable to the Bank, execute a contract, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, for the services of
consultants to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part D.2 (a) of
the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, reports, contract
documents and work schedules for Part D.2 of the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of Part D.2 of the Project (including the cost thereof
and the benefits to be derived therefrom), to identify the
services with respect thereto financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, anI to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable
the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived therefrom, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such,proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall cause a report to be prepared and
furnished to the Bank, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower, the
Bank and SETU of their respective obligations under this Agreement
and under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.04. Under a subsidiary loan agreement (hereinafter
called the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and FNA, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank, the Borrower shall make available to
FNA for use by SETU an amount equivalent to twenty-eight million,
seven hundred thousand dollars ($28,700,000) out of the proceeds


﻿-6-
of the Loan or such other amount as may be allocated to Categories
(1) through (6) (a) and Category (7) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. The Subsidiary Loan
Agreement shall provide, inter alia, that the amount so made
available pursuant to this Section shall be repaid over a period
of thirteen years after four years of grace and shall bear inter-
est at the rate of seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum
on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to provide as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required to enable SETU to carry out Parts A, B and C of the
Project.
Section 3.06. By December 31, 1978 or such other date as may
be agreeable to the Bank, the Borrower shall enact statutory
provisions satisfactory to the Bank based on the proposals
prepared by SETU in carrying out Part G.4 of the project described
in Schedule 2 to the 1975 Loan Agreement.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall, in accordance with
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, prepare or cause to be
prepared a property taxation study (hereinafter called the Prop-
erty Taxation Study).
(b) On the basis of the recro'indations of the Property
Taxation Study, the Borrower shall: (i) prepare a Plan of Action
to be discussed with the Bank by December 31, 1980 or such other
date as may be agreeable to the Bank; and (ii) thereafter, duly
implement such Plan of Action.
Section 3.08. (a) By June 30, 1979 or such other date as may
be agreeable to the Bank, the Borrower shall, pursuant to terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, prepare or cause to be prepared
a manpower development study with respect to the Borrower's water
supply and sewerage and drainage requirements (hereinafter called
the Manpower Study).
(b) Following agreement between the Borrower and the Bank
on the recommendations of the Manpower Study, the Borrower shall,
by June 30, 1980 or such other date as may be agreeable to the
Bank, take such measures as may be necessary to implement the said
recommendations.


﻿-7-
Section 3.09. (a) Within the framework of the study referred
to under Part E (ii) of the project described in Schedule 2 to the
1977 Loan Agreement and in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank. the Borrower shall, by December 31,
1979 or such other date as may be agreeable to the Bank, prepare
or cause to be prepared a study of the equitable application of
sewerage charges (hereinafter called the Sewerage Study).
(b) Following agreement between the Borrower and the Bank on
the recommendations of the Sewerage Study, the Borrower shall, by
December 31, 1980 or such other date as may be agreeable to the
Bank, take such measures as may be necessary to implement the said
recommendations.
Section 3.10. In order to strengthen its property tax col-
lection capability, the Borrower shall, by December 31, 1979 or
such other date as may be agreeable to the Bank, install and
thereafter maintain a computerized information system satis-
factory to the Bank within the Service d'Enregistrement of the
Direction des Imp8ts of its Ministere de l'Economie, des
Finances et du Plan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the


﻿-8-
Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower, provided, however, that for the purposes of this
Section the term "entity" shall not apply to Ivory Coast State
Companies which are organized as business corporations in accor-
dance with laws and regulations applicable to private companies
and whose activities are not reflected in the Borrower's budget,
except that the provisions of this Section shall apply to any such
entity to the extent that it would hold any foreign exchange
assets on behalf of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Part D.2 of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out Part D.2 of the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) have FNA's accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in Fuch detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information


﻿-9-
concerning the accounts and financial statements of FNA and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(b) As and from FNA's 1978 fiscal year, the Borrower
shall require FNA, not later than six months after the end of each
FNA fiscal year, to consolidate yearly, on a pro forma basis,
its accounts with SETU's accounts by using the foregoing audited
financial statements of FNA and the audited financial statements
of SETU provided for in Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.04. As of January 1, 1979 or such other date as may
be agreeable to the Bank, the Borrower shall, in addition to a
full adjustment for inflation, increase the annual rate of the
sewerage surcharge component of its water supply tariff by ten
percent over the rate prevailing as of the date of this Agreement.
Section 4.05. As of January 1, 1979 or such other date as may
be agreeable to the Bank. the Borrower shall set the drainage tax
(a component of its property tax) at ten percent (10.0%) of the
net rental value of properties.
Section 4.06. By December 31, 1978 or such other date as
may be agreeable to the Bank, the Borrower shall cause FNA to have
its accounts reorganized in order that these show separately: (i)
sewerage operations in Abidjan; (ii) drainage operations in
Abidjan; (iii) sewerage operations in the rest of the territory of
the Borrower; and (iv) drainage e"'erations in the rest of the
territory of the Borrower.
Section 4.07. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
(a) The Borrower shall from time to time take or cause to be
taken all such measures (including, without limitation, adjust-
ments of the structure or levels of the sewerage surtax and the
drainage tax) as shall be required to produce yearly, on an annual
average as and from its fiscal year 1978 through the fiscal year
during which the Project is completed, funds from internal sewer-
age and drainage sources equivalent to not less than 15% of the
annual average of the Borrower's capital expenditures accountable
to sewerage and drainage operations for Greater Abidjan incurred
and on the basis of realistic forecasts expected to be incurred.
In the event that the Borrower makes the exemption contemplated by
Section 4.11 of this Agreement, the aforesaid minimum level shall
forthwith be increased from 15% to 20%.


﻿- 10-
(b) Before March 31 in each of its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish, or cause to be prepared and
furnished to the Bank:
(i) a review, on the basis of expenditures incurred and
of realistic forecasts of expenditures to be
incurred, of the adequacy of its tariffs to meet
the requirement set forth in paragraph (a) of this
Section in respect of the next following fiscal
year; and
(ii) all other relevant information concerning the steps
taken or planned to be taken by the Borrower in
order to comply with its obligations under para-
graph (a) of this Section.
(c) For the purposes of this Section in calculating the
applicable percentage pursuant to paragraph (a):
(i) the term "funds from internal sewerage and drainage
sources" means the difference between:
(A) the sum of the revenues derived from sewerage
surtaxes, drainage taxes, other consumer
levies, cash consumer contributions in aid
of construction, net non-operating income,
and any decrease in net working capital other
than cash, related to sewerage and drainage
operations for Greater Abidjan; and
(B) the sum of all expenditures related to such
operations, including: expenses of adminis-
tration (excluding depreciation and othler
non-cash operating charges), adequate mainte-
nance, interest and other charges on debt
(excluding interest financed under a loan
contract), repayments of loans (including
sinking fund payments, if any), taxes,
payments in lieu of taxes, cash dividends and
other cash distributions of surplus; increases
in net working capital other than cash; and
any other cash outflows other than capital
expenditures related to sewerage and drainage
operations for Greater Abidjan.


﻿(ii) the term "capital expenditures" means the expendi-
tures required for the project described in
Schedule 2 to the 1975 Loan Agreement, the expendi-
tures required for Part B (f) of the project
described in Schedule 2 to the 1976 Loan Agreement
and the expenditures required for Parts A and B of
the Project;
(iii) the term "increases (or decreases) in net working
capital other than cash" means the difference
between current assets excluding cash (or its
equivalent) and current liabilities at the end of
each fiscal year of the Borrower;
(iv) the term "current assets" means cash, assets
readily convertible into cash, and all other assets
which could in the ordinary course of business be
converted within twelve months into cash;
(v) the term "current liabilities" means liabilities
due and payable and all other liabilities which
would be due and payable, or could be called for
payment, within twelve months; and
(vi) the annual average of the Borrower's capital
expenditures shall each year be calculated by
dividing the aggregate of such expenditures (actual
and estimated) by the total number of fiscal years
in which Project execution took place or is
expected to take place.
(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) (i)
of this Section, the Borrower and the Bank recognize that FNA may
have access to other sources of revenues.
(e) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section super-
sede the prior agreements between the Borrower and the Bank
concerning the percentage applicable to revenues from the Greater
Abidjan sewerage and drainage services as set forth in Section
4.07 of the 1975 Loan Agreement and Section 4.08 of the 1976 Loan
Agreement.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall from time to time take or
cause to be taken all such measures (including, without limita-
tion, adjustments to the structure or levels of sewerage surtaxes


﻿- 12 -
and drainage taxes) as shall be required to produce for each of
its fiscal years after 1981 such level of funds from internal
sources (after covering all expenditures referred to in Section
4.07 (c) (i) (B) of this Agreement) accountable to the sewerage
and drainage operations for Greater Abidjan for the purpose of
financing such reasonable proportion of sewerage and drainage
expansion as shall be acceptable to the Bank. Not later than
June 30, 1981, the Borrower shall review its tariff levels in
accordance with the findings and recommendations of the Sewerage
Study, taking into account operating expenses, debt service and
contribution to sewerage and drainage expansion requirements, and
shall propose to the Bank the measures to be taken for the afore-
said purpose in respect of each of its fiscal years after Decem-
ber 31, 1981.
Sction 4.09. If any provision or definition in Sections
4.03, 4.05, 4.06 or 4.07 of the 1975 Loan Agreement or in Section
4.08 of the 1976 Loan Agreement is inconsistent with any provision
or definition in this Agreement, the pertinent provision or
definition included in this Agreement shall govern.
Section 4.10. Without prior consultation with the Bank,
the Borrower shall not make expenditures, or commitments for
expenditures, for fixed or capital sewerage or drainage assets
(including investments in or loans to other entities) for Greater
Abidjan which could materially and adversely affect the carrying
out of the Project except:
(a) expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, required
for the carrying out of the Project;
(b) expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, required
for repairs, maintenance or replacement of such assets; and
(c) other expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, for
such assets not exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) in any fiscal year of the
Borrower.
Section 4.11. In order to permit sewerage and drainage
facilities and operations the same exemption as water supply
facilities and operations, the Borrower shall exempt all sewerage
and drainage facilities and operations from the purview of its
value added taxation system and that of its taxe de la prestation
de service or, for purposes of the Project, provide FNA each


﻿- 13 -
fiscal quarter with budgetary grants equivalent to the value added
tax and the taxe de la prestation de service collected on sewerage
and drainage facilities and operations.
Section 4.12. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all necessary measures in order that all urban development in
Greater Abidjan includes satisfactory water supply, sewerage and
drainage facilities and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed the funds required for the purpose.
Section 4.13. Following agreement between SETU, the Borrower
and the Bank on the recommendations of the Sewerage Connection
Study prepared pursuant to Section 2.12 of the Project Agreement,
the Borrower shall, by December 31, 1979 or such other date as may
be agreeable to the Bank, take such measures as may be neces-
sary to implement the said recommendations.
Section 4.14. The Borrower shall, on or before the first day
of each of its fiscal quarters, make a lump sum payment to FNA
equivalent to the reasonable estimate of the Borrower's Ministere
de l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan of the drainage tax compon-
ent of the property taxes levied during the immediately preceding
fiscal quarter; such payments to be adjusted annually for any over
or under payments on the basis of the actual fiscal year collec-
tions.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) SETU shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of SETU under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that SETU will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SETU or FNA or for the suspension of the operations of
SETU or FNA;


﻿- 14 -
(d) the SETU Statuts shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed, waived, or shall cease to be enforced, so as
to affect materially and adversely the carrying out by SETU of its
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement; and
(e) the FNA Statuts shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed, waived, or shall cease to be enforced, so as
to affect materially and adversely the carrying out by FNA of its
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and SETU;
(b) any event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and FNA; and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of
SETU has occurred and has been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and FNA, respectively, has occurred and has
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.


﻿- 15 -
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the execution of the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by SETU, and the Project Agreement is
legally binding upon SETU in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and FNA and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement is legally binding upon the Borrower
and FNA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date October 9, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre de 1'Economie, des Finances et du
Plan of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de 1'Economie,
des Finances et du Plan
B.P. V125
Abidjan,
Ivory Coast
Cable address:                   Telex:
MINIFIN                           MINIFIN 747
Abidjan                           Abidjan


﻿- 16 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
By /s/ Timothee Ahoua N'Guetta
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment under               1,300,000        100% of foreigp
Parts A and B                                 expenditures
of the Project                                and 70% of lo-
cal expendi-
tures
(2) Supply of pipes               6,200,000        60% (represent-
under Parts A and                             ing the esti-
B of the Project                              mated foreign
expenditure
component)
(3) Pipelaying under             13,200,000        45%
Parts A and B of
the Project
(4) Civil works under             4,000,000        50%
Parts A and B of
the Project
(5) Road construc-                1,300,000        50%
tion under Part
C of the Project
(6) Technical Ser-
vices under Part
D of the Project:
(a) For SETU                 2,600,000        60% (repre-
senting the
estimated for-
eign expendi-
ture compo-
nent)


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(b) For the                    300,000        60% (repre-
Borrower                                 senting the
estimated for-
eign expendi-
ture compo-
nent)
(7) Training under                  100,000        100%
Part E of the
Project
(8) Unallocated                   4,000,000
TOTAL        33,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases


﻿- 19 -
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above: (i)
no withdrawals under Category (5) shall be made unless and until
the Bank shall have received evidence satisfactory to the Bank
showing that the Borrower has declared the area to be served by
the roads included in Part C of the Project to be in the public
interest for purposes of the Borrower's betterment taxation
system; and (ii) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agree-
ment, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $500,000 may be made in respect of
Category (6) on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after February 1, 1978.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallo-
cation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to continue the development of
the Greater Abidjan sewerage and drainage system and the institu-
tions responsible for this system.
The Project covers the second phase (1978-1981) of SETU's
ten-year program (1976-1985) (hereinafter called the Program) for
improvement and expansion of the sewerage and storm water drainage
facilities in Greater Abidjan and consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:   Sewerage
1.   Supply and laying of:
(a) about 1.5 km of primary sewers in Treichville
Sud;
(b) about 20 km of sewers and 0.5 km of mains in
Marcory Habitat, including construction of, and
equipment for, two pumping stations;
(c) about 3 km of trunk sewers and 2 km of mains from
Treichville to Baie de Bietri, including one
outfall and diffuser and construction of, and
equipment for, one pumping station;
(d) about 6.5 km of sewers in Williamsville;
(e) about 2 km of sewers in Blokosso;
(f) about 13.5 km of primary sewers in the Banco;
and
(g) about 4.5 km of sewers in Treichville.
2.   Rehabilitation of existing sewer network in Treichville.
3.   Construction of, and equipment for, a pumping station on
the Treichville trunk sewer.
4*   Installation of about 3,500 house connections in com-
bination primarily with 1. (b), (d), (e) and (g) above.


﻿- 21 -
Part B:   Drainage
1.   Supply and laying of:
(a) about 1.5 km of drainage mains in Treichville
Sud;
(b) about 10 km of primary drains, including necessary
streetdrains, in Marcory Habitat; and
(c) about 4.5 km of primary drains in Abobo.
2.   Construction of:
(a) about 4 km of drainage canals, including necessary
waterfalls, in the Banco and Yopougon; and
(b) about 1.5 km of drainage canals, including neces-
sary waterfalls, in Banco Nord.
3.   Rehabilitation of existing drainage works, incidental
operations in Marcory Sud-Est and Adjame, as well
as works to be undertaken in the areas of housing
developers.
Part C:   Road upgrading
Asphalt road surfacing for about 6.5 km of streets in
Marcory Habitat.
Part D:   Consulting Services
1.   Strengthening of SETU in financial management; strength-
ening of SETU's activities related to the ?roject; and
consulting services, in collaboration with Ivorian
agencies concerned, for the preparation of:
(a) feasibility studies for a project covering the
third phase of the Program (1932-1985) and a new
ten-year sewerage and drainige development plan
(1981-1990) for Greater Abidjan; and
(b) studies to determine means
(i) to promote small entrepreneurs such as
plumbers and local civil works contractors;


﻿- 22 -
(ii) to promote small industries for local manu-
facturing of sanitary equipment; and
(iii) to introduce commercial credit facilities for
home plumbing improvements and connections.
2.   (a) The preparation of a property tax study.
(b) The establishment of a computerized information
system to strengthen the Borrower's property tax
collection capability.
(c) The preparation of manpower and training studies
with respect to the Borrower's water supply and
sewerage and drainage requirements.
Part E:   Training
Training abroad and local apprenticeships for SETU staff
in sewerage and drainage system management and operations.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1982
through   October 1, 1994                   1,270,000
On April 1, 1995                                 1,250,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 24 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.30%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             2.65%
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                       4.85%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                       6.60%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.50%


