Report No. PID7399
Project Name                     Ghana-Second Economic Reform Support (@)
Operation (ERSO II)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Structural Adjustment Lending
Project ID                       GHPE40557
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Date PID Prepared                April 30, 1999
Appraisal/Negotiations Date      April 8-21, 1999
Board Date                       May 27, 1999
Background
1.      After years of gradual reform and successful performance, Ghana's
adjustment process suffered setbacks during 1992-96. Increased fiscal
spending in the run-up to the 1992 and 1996 elections led to the re-emergence
of large fiscal imbalances and high inflation. Ghana's macroeconomic
performance, however, improved considerably in 1997 and 1998. Budgetary
discipline was restored, inflation brought under control, and external
imbalances were narrowed. The Government also made progress in implementing
important structural reforms including the re-introduction of a Value Added
Tax, the adoption of a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) for budget
formulation, and substantial increases in electricity tariffs. In 1998,
economic growth reached 4.6 percent despite the adverse impact of the energy
crisis, and inflation was brought down further to 16 percent at the end of
the year.
Objectives
2.      The Second Economic Reform Operation (ERSO II) seeks to support the
Government's reform agenda as outlined in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP)
for 1999-2001 which was distributed to the Board in mid April 1999. The
agenda targets increases in per-capita GDP of 3 percent annually during this
period and a continued reduction in external imbalances. The Government aims
to achieve these objectives through increased macroeconomic stability, good
governance, balanced social and regional development, private sector-led
growth and export orientation. Within this broad agenda, the proposed ERSO
II will focus on structural reforms needed to sustain private-sector led and
poverty reducing growth.
Description
3.      The proposed credit follows up on the one-tranche Economic Reform
Support Operation (ERSO) approved by the Bank's Board in June 1998. ERSO
supported the recent turnaround in Ghana's macroeconomic stance and laid the
foundations for the next generation of difficult reforms in the areas of
privatization, public sector management, as well as the energy and cocoa
sectors. ERSO II will build on satisfactory implementation of reforms under
the preceding credit. In particular, it will pursue fiscal policies aimed at
improving efficiency and supporting stabilization efforts to bring inflation



down to single-digit levels; it will target the divestiture of strategic
enterprises in the energy and banking sectors; and most importantly, it will
support major reforms in the cocoa and power sectors where progress, until
recently, has been limited. By providing budgetary funds during 1999-2000,
the Credit will help reduce government's borrowing requirements and thus
support a continued decline in inflation and interest rates.
Environmental Aspects
4.      The recommended environmental assessment category is C.    The proposed
credit does not have direct environmental impact.
Implementation
5.      The credit will be disbursed through the Bank of Ghana in two tranches
upon compliance with specific actions yet to be defined. Simplified
disbursement procedures under adjustment credits will apply. The Ministry of
Finance will be responsible for coordinating the implementation of the reform
program agreed upon under the credit.
Financing
6.      The credit amount is currently proposed at US$180 million.    The credit
is a balance of payments operation and the proceeds of the foreign exchange
sales will go to the budget.
Benefits and Risks
7.      The operation will assist in meeting Ghana's financing requirements in
1999 and 2000. In addition, it will support the implementation of key
structural reforms needed to promote sustained economic growth and poverty
reduction. Potential risks are linked to weak implementation capacity,
potential resistance to reform from some interest groups, and renewed
political pressure in the wake of general elections in the year 2000. The
Government has taken actions to mitigate these risks by informing the general
public on the benefits of reform and by consulting with relevant
stakeholders.
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Rocio Castro
Task Manager
(202) 473-4331
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 15, 1999.
- 2 -



