Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P- 7311 Gil
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE;
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
E:XECUTIVE DIRECTORS
O'N A
PROPOSED SECOND ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION CREDIT
oF SDR 132.7 MILL:ION (US$180 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO5
T'HE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
May 4, 1999
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               =             Cedi (0)
US$ 1.00                    =2418 (March 31, 1999)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB              Agricultural Development Bank
APL              Adaptable Program Lending
BHC              Bank for Housing and Construction
BOG              Bank of Ghana
BPEMS            Budget and Public Expenditure Management System
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CEPS             Customs, Excise and Preventive Service
CG               Consultative Group
COCOBOD          Cocoa Board
COOP             Cooperative Bank
CWIQ             Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
DIC              Divestiture Implementation Committee
EC               Energy Commission
ECG              Electricity Company of Ghana
ERP              Economic Recovery Program
ERSO             Economic Reform Support Operation
ERSO 11          Second Economic Reform Support Operation
ESAF             Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GCB              Ghana Commercial Bank
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
GNPC             Ghana National Petroleum Cooperation
GOIL             Ghana Oil Company
GLSS             Ghana Living Standard Survey
IDA              International Development Association
IFC              International Finance Corporation
IMF              International Monetary Fund
IRS              Internal Revenue Service
LBC              Licensed Buying Company
LDP              Letter of Development Policy
LIL              Learning and Innovation Loan
MIGA             Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MTEF             Medium Tenn Expenditure Framework
NGO              Non-governmental Organization
NIB              National Investment Bank
NRS              National Revenue Service
PBC              Produce Buying Company
Vice President         Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director       Peter Harrold
Technical Manager      Charles P. Humphreys
Task Team Leader       Rocio Castro



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEPTA             Public Enterprise and Privatization Technical Assistance
PFP               Policy Framework Paper
PUFMARP           Public Financial Management Reform Program
PURC              Public Utilities Regulatory Commission
RAGB              Revenue Agencies Governing Board
SDR               Special Drawing Rights
SSB               Social Security Bank
TIN               Tax Identification Number
TOR               Tema Oil Refinery
WAEMU             West African Economic and Monetary Union
VAT               Value Added Tax
This operation was prepared by a team consisting of Rocio Castro (Senior Economist and Task
Team Leader, AFTM4), Ulrich Hess (Economist, AFTM4), Camille Lampart (Economist, World Bank
Ghana Office), Gerard Byam (Principal Economist, AFTPS), Paul Murgatroyd (Lead Specialist, AFTPS),
Joel Maweni (Senior Financial Analyst, AFEN), Solomon Bekure (Senior Operations Officer, World Bank
Ghana Office), Said Al Habsy (Legal Counsel, LEGAF). Contributions were received from Theresa Jones
(Country Progam Coordinator, AFCIO), Oliver Campbell-White (Senior Public Enterprise Specialist,
AFTPS), Mangesh Hoskote (Power Sector Specialist, EMTEG), Snorri Hallgrimssom (Principal Engineer,
AFTT2), Gunter Heidenhof (Senior Public Sector Management Specialist, World Bank Ghana Office), Jose
Sokol (Lead Economist, AFT4) and Luis de Azcarate (Consultant, AFTM4). Peer Reviewers were Sudhir
Shetty (Principal Economist, AFTM1) and Heman Garcia (Principal Power Engineer, EMTEG). Al Crego
(Reasearch Analyst,AFTM4) and Ann Martinov (Team Assistant) provided operational support.
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and Program Summary ...........................,                                                                     i
L THE ECONOMY .1
A. Background .
B. Recent Economic Developments                                                  .2
R.  GHANA'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  ............. ..........................................................                    3
A. Restoring Macroeconomic Stability                                               .4
B. Structural Reform Efforts                                                 .6
C. Human Development and Poverty Reduction .....................................................................        12
D. Medium-Term  Outlook and Financing Requirements .................................................................. 12
IIL  THE PROPOSED  CREDIT .....................................................................                           14
A. Credit Rationale and Components .....................................................................               14
B. Specific Actions Supported by the Credit .....................................................................      15
C.    Poverty   Impact .....................................................................                           16
D. Link to the CAS .....................................................................                               17
E.  Credit Amount, Disbursement Procedures and Implementation Arrangements ........................... 17
F.  Program  Benefits and Risks ......................................................................18
IV. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND COLLABORATION WITH OTHER DONORS .... 19
V.      RECOMMENDATION .....................................................................                              20
Annexes
A. Matrix of Policy Actions
B. Ghana at a Glance
C. Key Economic Indicators
D. External Financial Requirements
E. Social Indicators of Development
F. Status of Bank Operations
G. Impact Indicators
H. Timetable of Key Processing Events
1. Letter of Development Policy
J. Policy Framework Paper



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:     Republic of Ghana
Amount:        SDR 132.7 million (US$180 million equivalent, which includes US$1.8
million IDA Reflows)
Terms:         Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Description:   The proposed Credit will seek to consolidate recent gains in restoring
macroeconomic stability and will support the implementation of a deeper and
more challenging phase of the reform program in the cocoa, energy, and
banking sectors. The proceeds of the Credit will help cover the external
financing requirements of Ghana in the context of a vulnerable external
position and low level of external reserves.  Moreover, by generating
counterpart funds for the budget, the Credit will also assist in reducing the
government's domestic financing requirements and help support a downward
trend in inflation and interest rates, thereby reducing the country's heavy
domestic debt burden.
Benefits:     Successful completion of the program will enable the Government to create
firmer grounds for sustained private sector-led and poverty-reducing growth.
In addition to establishing a favorable environment for the private sector, the
reduction in inflation will have a beneficial impact on the poor.  The
anticipated decline in interest rates and reduced debt service payments will
allow an expansion of private sector credit as well as increased budgetary
allocations to the social sectors. Moreover, proposed reforms in the cocoa
sector will boost exports and have a positive impact on the incomes of farmers
with significant multiplier effects on the rural economy where most of the poor
live. Reforms in the energy sector intended to facilitate private sector
participation in power generation and distribution are likely to enhance private
investment prospects.  Finally, banking restructuring will improve the
soundness of the financial system and eliminate sources of quasi-fiscal deficits
and inefficient allocation of financial resources.
Risks:        As shown by past experience, there is a potential risk of policy slippage in the
run-up to elections in the year 2000. The Government is quite aware of this
risk and, more importantly, of the damaging effects on the population of
repeated policy failure. In this regard, the Government has, over the past two
years, demonstrated greater commitment to fiscal discipline and has reinstated
politically sensitive measures such as the VAT and the rise in electricity tariffs.



ii
The Govemment will likely face opposition to some reforms, i.e., the opening
of cocoa exports to private operators, from special groups who may perceive
proposed changes as a threat to Ghana's quality standing in the world market
as well as to their economic interests. To mitigate this risk the Government has
opted to implement reforms in a gradual manner and engaged in wide
consultations with stakeholders. Finally, while the export price for cocoa is
expected to recover over time after its recent downfall, prolonged depressed
prices could offset gains from proposed reforms. The Government's ability to
manage external shocks from commodity prices (including gold and timber) is
limited in the short terma.
Disbursement: The Credit will be disbursed in three tranches, one of them being a floating
tranche. The first tranche in an amount equivalent to US$80 million will be
released upon effectiveness. The second and the floating tranches in amounts
equivalent to US$80 million and US$20 million, respectively, will be
disbursed upon completion of agreed actions.
Map:           IBRD 23606



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
1.   I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on the
proposed Second Economic Reform Support Operation (ERSO II) to the Republic of
Ghana for SDR 132.7 million, an amount equivalent to about US$180 million, on
standard IDA terms. The Credit is proposed as a three tranche operation, including a
floating tranche, that would underpin the Government's adjustment program. The
proposed Credit seeks to consolidate recent gains in restoring macroeconomic stability
and to support the implementation of difficult reforms in the cocoa, energy, and financial
sectors. The proposed Credit will also assist in covering Ghana's external financing
requirements for the period 1999-2000.
I. THE ECONOMY
A. Background
2.   Since 1983, the Government of Ghana has implemented a gradualist adjustment
strategy under the Economic Recovery Program (ERP), designed to stabilize and
liberalize the economy. The program succeeded in reversing the profound economic
decline suffered in the decade preceding the ERP. Since then, real Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) and per capita income have consistently increased at an average annual
rate of about 5 and 2 percent, respectively. However, the political liberalization that
began in the early 1990s brought about a resurgence of macroeconomic instability and
slowdown of reforms which threatened to undermine the economic and social gains
achieved thus far. Against this background, since 1997 the Government has taken
decisive steps to bring the macroeconomic program back on track and to accelerate
structural reforms.
3.   Early Stabilization and Reforms. Initial stabilization efforts centered on reducing
budget deficits through enhanced revenue mobilization. Fiscal revenues rose from 6
percent of GDP in 1983 to 15 percent of GDP in 1991, allowing for increased public
investment, which had collapsed prior to the ERP, and for reduced fiscal deficits. Fiscal
and monetary restraint brought down inflation from a peak of 142 percent in 1983 to 10
percent by the end of 1991. Structural reforms focused on removing price controls,
liberalizing the trade and foreign exchange regime, and simplifying the regulatory
framework for private investment. The Govemment also began a program to divest from
parastatals and to restructure the financial sector.



2
4.  Adjustment Setbacks. Ghana's adjustment process suffered significant setbacks
between 1992 and early 1997. Higher than planned public spending in the run up to the
first democratic elections in 1992 and later in 1996 worsened fiscal imbalances and
increased inflationary pressures. The domestic rate of inflation averaged 40 percent
during the 1993-96 period, peaking at 71 percent in 1995, while the exchange rate
depreciated sharply against the dollar. Increased reliance on treasury bills to finance
large fiscal deficits and absorb excess liquidity led to a rapid increase in domestic debt,
high real interest rates, and a sharp increase in debt servicing obligations. Unbudgeted
expenditures and increased non-concessional borrowing in the second half of 1996 and
early 1997 caused a one and a half year delay in support under the Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) arrangement with the Fund. Moreover, key policies were
reversed in the midst of considerable social unrest: a 17.5 percent value added tax (VAT)
was repealed shortly after its introduction in June 1995 and a 200 percent increase in
electricity tariffs was withdrawn in May 1997.
5.   Poverty and Social Indicators. Social indicators improved since the inception of
the ERP, after a marked deterioration during the preceding decade. According to the
third Ghana Living Standard Survey (GLSS3), the incidence of poverty fell between
1987 and 1992 from 36 percent to 31 percent.  The reduction in poverty was
predominantly a rural phenomenon brought about by the growth in non-farm income,
mainly from wholesale and retail trading, while urban poverty increased, mainly in the
Accra area. While most of Ghana's social indicators compare favorably with average
levels for Sub-Saharan Africa, some indicators appear to have worsened more recently.
The 1997 Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ) indicates that public health has
improved with declining levels of sickness while literacy rates have decreased. Poverty
predictors from CWIQ, such as household assets, also suggest that more Ghanaians may
be below the poverty line than in 1992. More definite results will be available once the
GLSS4 is completed in June this year.
B.  Recent Economic Developments
6.   Ghana's macroeconomic situation began to turn around in 1997. The domestic
primary surplus (defined as domestic revenues minus domestically-financed non-interest
expenditures) increased sharply from 0.3 in 1996 to 3.2 percent of GDP as a result of
substantial expenditure cuts, while inflation was brought down from 33 percent to 21
percent. On the structural front, the Government signaled its intention to move ahead
with unfinished reforms. In February 1998, Parliament passed the VAT law for its re-
introduction later in the year and electricity tariffs were increased by 90 percent. These
actions paved the way for the resumption of the second annual ESAF arrangement in
March 1998 as well as the approval of IDA's most recent adjustment credit in June 1998.
7.   Economic Performance and Outcomes. Performance in 1998 under the ESAF
program has been broadly satisfactory. Notwithstanding the energy crisis that hit the
country early in the year, the domestic primary surplus rose to 3.6 percent of GDP, but
was slightly short of the program tiarget (3.8 percent of GDP) because of higher capital
spending. Net domestic financing of the budget increased to 5.2 percent of GDP and -
exceeded its target level (3.8 percent of GDP) as high real interest rates led to



3
substantially higher than programmed domestic interest payments. The 90-day treasury
bill rate, which had averaged around 40 percent since 1995, declined only gradually
throughout 1998 reaching 27 percent by October. Monetary growth was significantly
tighter and broad money increased by only 18 percent (40 percent in 1997). As a result,
the end-year annual rate of inflation fell to less than 16 percent while the stability in the
nominal exchange rate led to a 4 percent real effective appreciation of the Cedi. Despite
the severe energy crisis of early 1998, real GDP grew at 4.6 percent, close to the average
level recorded since 1983. A good agricultural crop and buoyant export growth both of
traditional, (e.g., of cocoa and gold) and non-traditional exports were main contributing
factors. Strong exports and improved terms of trade for Ghana allowed a substantial
narrowing of the current account deficit and a higher than targeted increase in gross
international reserves.
II.  GHANA'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
8.   Ghana-Vision 2020 (The First Step: 1996-2000), spells out the Government's
medium term strategy aimed at turning Ghana into a middle income country by the turn
of the next decade.' The program aims at achieving higher rates of economic growth and
eliminating hard-core poverty through increased private sector activity, particularly in
non-traditional exports; balanced social and regional development within Ghana; and
proper consideration of environmental aspects. The thrust of the strategy is to make the
private sector the engine of growth and main provider of goods and services whilst
reorienting the public sector toward the creation of enabling conditions for private sector
development and the provision of social and basic infrastructure. In light of the
adjustment setbacks suffered in the 1990s, the Government recognizes the need to
substantially step up reform efforts, if Ghana is to meet its development goals. 2
9.   The medium term reform agenda will focus on consolidating recent gains in
restoring macroeconomic stability, through sound fiscal and monetary policies, including
improved public expenditure management and revenue collection; pursuing liberal
economic policies to ensure competitive investment opportunities; establishing an
efficient and reliable economic infrastructure (telecommunications, energy, roads, water);
enhancing the soundness of the financial system; and restructuring the public sector to
improve the quality and delivery of public services. The Policy Framework Paper (PFP)
for 1999-200 1, prepared jointly by the Government, the Bank, and the Fund in February
1999, provides a detailed account of Ghana's economic and social policies for this
period. In support of these policies, a new three-year ESAF program was approved by
the Fund's Board on May 3, 1999.
Government of Ghana: Ghana Vision 2020- Ghana's Long Term "Path to Prosperity", Januaryl995.
2  Ghana would need to achieve GDP growth rates of 8 percent annually to become a low middle
income country by 2010.



4
A.  Restoring Macroeconomic Stability
10. The Government's macroeconomic program for 1999-2001 aims at: (i) accelerating
real GDP growth, to about 6 percent annually; (ii) bringing down inflation to single
digits, to 9 percent in 1999 and 5 percent subsequently; and (iii) maintaining the
country's external position at manageable levels by increasing the stock of gross
international reserves to about 3 months of imports. Fiscal and monetary policies will
aim at substantially reducing the government's net domestic borrowing requirement,
thereby reducing pressures on interest rates and freeing resources in the banking system
for private sector credit; and containing money growth by limiting reserve money growth.
Fiscal Policies
11. Fiscal Objectives. A central fiscal objective is to reduce the government's net
domestic borrowing to about 2.8 percent of GDP in 1999-2000 and to 1.3 percent of GDP
in 2001. As a result, the stock of domestic debt should start declining by 2001. To
achieve these objectives, and assuming that interest rates fall as anticipated, the
Government plans to maintain domestic primary surpluses at around 3.5 percent of GDP
and to draw on extemal program aid at a level of about 2 percent of GDP. Domestic
revenue is projected to gradually increase to 19 percent of GDP by 2001, allowing for a
concomitant expansion in domestically financed expenditures. Revenue efforts will
focus on improving tax administration, expanding the tax base, and correcting renmaining
distortions in the tax system. Expected increases in tax collections will more than
compensate for reduced tax rates (from the replacement of the sales tax by the VAT and
from planned reductions in the cocoa export tax).
12. VAT. A cornerstone of the Government's tax reform is the replacement of the 15
percent sales and service tax by a VAT. Following intense preparations and a wide
public education campaign, the VAT was smoothly re-introduced in late December 1998.
The VAT was set at a lower standard rate of 10 percent3 with a view to ensuring public
acceptance and successful implementation. As of March 1999, over 13,000 taxpayers
had registered for VAT, against a target of 6,000. Once the VAT is fully implemented,
and depending on revenue considerations, the Government will consider the need to raise
the rate.
13. Central Revenue Board. Improved tax administration is also expected from the
recent establishment of a common revenue board to coordinate the activities of the
Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Customs, Excise and Preventive Service (CEPS),
National Revenue Service (NRS) an.d the VAT Service. The initially proposed central
revenue authority was reformulated as the Revenue Agencies Governing Board (RAGB)
because a constitutional amendment would have been required to replace CEPS and IRS.
The Act, which was passed by Parliament in December 1998, replaces the boards of
respective revenue agencies with a single new board. The RAGB will be responsible for
3  The VAT was proposed at 15 percent when tabled to Parliament in 1997.
4  By comparison, VAT rates in neighboring countries are mostly in the 15 to 20 percent range.



5
administering the Tax Identification Number (TIN) system, monitoring the collection and
audit activities of the revenue agencies, and designing and implementing uniform
personnel, legal, and administrative practices. The TIN system will be extended to all
taxpayer categories in 1999.
14. Import Tariffs. Once the VAT is fully operational, the Government plans to
further rationalize the import tariff regime. The import tariff schedule currently consists
of four duty rates (0,5,10,25 percent)5. An important objective of future reform would be
to reduce dispersion and revenue loss resulting from the large proportion of zero-rated
imports (about 50 percent) and the scope of exemption regimes. To carefully assess the
revenue and efficiency impact of future changes, the Government will undertake a
comprehensive review of its tariff regime in 1999, taking into account developments in
the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU), and will introduce
measures based on this review with the 2000 budget (such as a lowering of the top duty
rate to 20 percent). In the meantime, the Government has abolished a 17.5 percent
'special tax' levied on a selected group of products, which since last year applied to
imports but not to domestically produced goods, thus restoring the top duty rate to an
effective level of 25 percent.
15. Road Sector Arrears. The Government reported payment arrears to private road
contractors representing some 0.3 percent of GDP as of end 1997. While provisions were
made under the 1998 budget to eliminate these arrears, it was later found that arrears had
tripled throughout the year. Compounding levels reflected, in part, high interest rates
(over 20 percent in real terns) on overdue payments. In order to address this serious
problem, the Government commissioned in October 1998, under the IDA-supported
Highway Sector Investment Project, an audit of the eight largest contracts, which
accounted for 70 percent of the arrears. The audit found that arrears to these contractors
amounted to US$63 million (equivalent to 0.8 percent of GDP) with remaining work
valued at around US$220 million. The audit noted that the costs of road works in seven
of the contracts were well above normal levels and recommended their termination
following a review of the legal covenants of each contract. The cost of terminating the
contracts was estimated at around US$10 million. In light of these findings, the
Government has adopted an action plan to terminate these referred seven contracts, re-
tender them under competitive bidding, and pay-off outstanding amounts within the next
two years. In addition, the Government has scaled down its investment program in line
with available resources and is to apply competitive bidding procedures to award all
future road contracts.
16. Planning and Budgetary Systems. The Government is making good progress in
implementing its Public Financial Management Reform Program (PUFMARP) initiated
in 1996. A major accomplishment in this area has been the adoption, for the first time, of
a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) as the basis for the formulation of the
1999 budget. The MTEF aims at integrating the planning process for development and
recurrent expenditures, increasing transparency in the allocation of government resources
5  The 5 percent rate was introduced in March 1998 to replace some zero-rated items.



6
(including external funds), and allowing for better prioritization of expenditures
according to sector strategies. The MTEF exercise for the 1999 budget covered all
sectors rather than the three priority sectors originally targeted. Three-year indicative
ceilings were given to ministries, departments and agencies to prepare their detailed
annual expenditure plans. All government resources, including external financing, were
accounted for in the new budget guidelines and all personnel expenses, including
allowances, were consolidated. Future budgets will continue to be prepared on an MTEF
basis. In particular, the 2000 budget will extend the allocation of all types of
expenditures, including administration and personnel emoluments, to specific sector
activities.
17. To accompany the MTEF process, a new set of expenditure control rules will be
put in place in 1999. The accounting framework has also been revised to include new
codes so that expenditures can be identified not only by type and sectors, but also by
activity, source of funds, and geographic location. In addition, the Government has
begun the implementation of a Budget and Public Expenditure Management System
(BPEMS) to be fully operational by the end 2000. The system will support better
budgetary preparation and execution, improved cash management, and strengthened
accounting functions, all on an integrated, computerized basis.
B.  Structural Reform Efforts
(a) Promoting the Private Sector
18. The creation of an enabling environment for private investment (domestic and
foreign) is at the heart of the Government's strategy for accelerated economic growth and
poverty reduction. In addition to restoring macroeconomic stability, Government's
reform efforts in the coming years will focus on enhancing Ghana's competitiveness in
cocoa world markets; establishing the necessary institutional, regulatory and legal
framework to attract private investment in economic activities including in the provision
of basic infrastructure (telecommunications, transportation, energy, water); moving ahead
with the privatization of economically significant public enterprises in the water,
transportation and energy sectors; and further strengthening the financial system. The
Government's ultimate goals are to make Ghana attractive as a trade and investment
gateway to West Africa as well as a major regional financial center.
19. Cocoa Reform. Ghana's cocoa marketing arrangements are currently restrictive.
The Cocobod, the state-owned marketing agency, has retained a monopoly on cocoa
exports, largely out of concems that liberalization of the external marketing could
undermine Ghana's high quality standards and that foreign interests could eventually take
control of this strategic national resource. At the same time, while the domestic
marketing has been liberalized since the early 1990s, the state-run Produce Buying
Company (PBC) still handles arouncl sixty percent of total purchases owing to its large
buying network and preferential laccess to Cocobod's financing and warehousing
facilities. Moreover, the farmer's share in the fob export price is low compared to other
cocoa producing countries, with the exception of Cote d'Ivoire, on account of a high



7
export tax (currently at 26 percent of the fob price) and relatively high marketing costs
(around 18 percent of the fob price). In line with the on-going reform agenda, the
producer price was raised to 56 percent of the export fob price in June 1998 (matching
that offered in COte d'Ivoire). Also, preparations are underway to offer for sale PBC in
1999 while the unification of the extension services of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Cocobod has been initiated.
20. With a long-term view of improving the performance and competitiveness of the
cocoa industry, restoring Ghana's leading role in world markets, and raising farmers'
incomes, the Government has now revised its medium term strategy for the sector, in
broad consultation with stakeholders. In September 1998, the Government established a
task force comprising representatives across the sector to prepare a comprehensive report
on the sector with recommendations on production, marketing, pricing, infrastructure,
and financial arrangements. The report was discussed in a national workshop in January
1999 and served as the basis for the formulation of a revised strategy. The vision of the
strategy is to create market incentives that lead to broad based rural growth and income
enhancement that will reduce poverty.  Notably, the strategy features accelerated
increases in the farmer's share of the fob export price and the introduction of private
competition in external marketing. The main elements of the strategy include: (i) raising
the producer price to 65 percent of the fob price in 1999/2000 and to 70 percent by the
year 2004/5; (ii) reducing the cocoa export tax to 15 percent of the fob export price by the
year 2004/5; (iii) allowing qualified licensed buying companies (LBCs) to export 30
percent of their domestic purchases starting with the 2000/2001 crop season; (iv)
deepening internal marketing competition by giving all LBCs equal access to Cocobod's
warehousing and crop financing facilities; and (v) abolishing price discounts on
exportable cocoa to domestic processors. The Cocobod will undertake a regulatory role
and will reduce its share in the fob price. Quality control will remain the responsibility of
a public institution. As a result of these measures, cocoa production, currently estimated
at about 400,000 tons, is expected to reach 500,000 tons by 2004/5. 6
21.  To ensure the successful implementation of the strategy, a reform secretariat will be
established by June 1999 for a period of two years. It will report to a stakeholder steering
committee in order to assure its independence from vested interests such as the Cocobod.
The secretariat will design regulatory and organizational changes with the help of
consultancies and will be the interface between donors, stakeholders and the Government
regarding the reform program. The Government will assess progress during the first
phase of reforms with a view to moving toward a fully competitive system with open
entry.
6    The 25 percent projected output increase over a period of five years will amount to approximately a
7 percent increase of world exports. Considering disease problems of competing producers in South
America, the unique quality of Ghana cocoa that puts it into a special input segment for processors
and a steadily increasing world demand, no significant adding up problem is anticipated.



8
22.   Energy Reform. The Government's strategic objectives are to create an efficient
and reliable energy sector through the establishment of competitive pricing and
marketing arrangements, and to foster an enabling environment for the participation of
private investment in the provision of petroleum products and power services (generation
and distribution). The Govemment has prepared and published a Statement of Power
Sector Development Policy. The statement outlines progress made to date and the
remaining reform agenda.
23. Reform efforts in the power sector are focused on: (i) establishing transparent
regulations for tariff setting, licensing, and operation of the national interconnected
system; (ii) coordinating and rationalizing strategic investment planning for the sector
taking into account projected demand in Ghana and neighboring countries; and (iii)
improving the efficiency of the sector through the restructuring of the utilities, the
Electricity Company of Ghana (ECG) and the Volta River Authority (VRA), and the
privatization of thermal generation and distribution systems through joint venture
arrangements. In addition, the Government is discussing with Cote d'Ivoire the
formation of a regional power pool aimed at creating an organized market for electricity
trade.
24.   In late 1997, the Government established the Public Utilities Regulatory
Commission (PURC) with autonomous power to set tariffs. The PURC implemented two
increases in 1998 which raised the average tariff by over 200 percent to a level that would
cover cash flow operating costs of the public utilities and own-guaranteed debt service
obligations throughout 1999. By September 1999, the PURC will have published tariff
setting guidelines. Moreover, the Government plans to complete electricity regulations
covering the operation of the national interconnected system by end 1999. These
regulations will establish transparent rules for the market, including conditions for non-
discriminatory access and the criteria for economic dispatch of power into the network,
and will provide the basis for issuing licenses. The Energy Commission (EC),
established in 1998, will be responsible for licensing both petroleum and power operators
and for coordinating power sector investment planning. Pending the creation of adequate
planning capacity within the EC, the Government is preparing a Transitional Plan for
Wholesale Power Supply for 1999-2001, to avoid over- or under-capacity. New
generation and related transmission capacity to be committed during this period will be
subject to competitive bidding. The Transitional Plan replaces the Emergency Supply
Expansion Plan developed in 1998 to fill critical power shortages through temporary
contracts with private operators.
25.   To improve the economic and financial viability of the public utilities, a financial
recovery plan was adopted in 1998. The tariff adjustments authorized by the PURC in
1998 were an integral part of the financial recovery plan which also included efficiency
improvements as well as the settlement of arrears and the postponement of government-
guaranteed debt service obligations until the year 2000. The restructuring of the public
utilities will also involve the separation of generation, transmission and distribution into
distinct business units with no cross subsidization. The separation and corporatization of
the transmission activities from generation is expected to be completed by December
1999. The distribution company, the Electricity Company of Ghana (ECG), is being



9
restructured into a holding company and five distribution business units. These business
units will be offered for sale by June 2000 to strategic investors with the technical
capacity to run the distribution zones. This will be the first such divestiture in Africa.
26.   On petroleum, important steps have been taken to deregulate the sector. These
include the liberalization of crude oil importation, the adoption of an automatic price
adjustment mechanism based on an import parity price, and the introduction of uniform
ex-depot wholesale prices. Negotiations are now underway for the divestiture of the
Ghana Oil Company (GOIL) and retail prices will be liberalized by end 1999. The
Government plans to complete the financial restructuring of the Tema Oil Refinery
(TOR) in preparation for its divestiture by end 1999.
27. Financial Sector Reform. When financial sector reforms began in the late 1980s,
the government-dominated banking sector (seven out of ten banks) was in deep financial
distress. Between 1989 and 1992, all government banks were recapitalized and new
banking legislation (the 1989 banking law and the 1992 Bank of Ghana law) was
introduced to strengthen the regulatory and supervisory powers of the central bank and
allow the entry of new private banks. Since 1992, the Government has also sought to
enhance the efficiency of the banking system through a program of divestiture of
government banks. The majority share holdings of the Social Security Bank (SSB)
passed to a strategic foreign investor in 1995. Forty one percent of the Government's
shares in Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB), now the second largest commercial bank,
have been sold to the public through the Ghana Stock Exchange.
28. The banking system now comprises seventeen banks, of which twelve are private
and account for about 70 percent of deposits. While much of the banking system is
functioning reasonably well, some small banks are experiencing financial problems and
there is a need to further strengthen the laws and regulations to supervise banks. Three
banks (two of which are government-owned) do not meet capital adequacy requirements
and have a high proportion of non-performing loans (over 80 percent). In addition, the
divestiture program has slowed considerably. The strategic investor selected in 1996 to
acquire 40 percent of shares in GCB has recently withdrawn its offer owing to financial
difficulties linked to the Asian crisis. Meanwhile, the Government is in the third process
of soliciting proposals from potential strategic investors for the National Investment Bank
(NIB); after two failed prior attempts, while the bank is deteriorating (with a non-
performing loan portfolio of 36 percent).
29. The Government has adopted a program for dealing with these problems and
strengthening the financial system. First, Bank of Ghana (BOG) has established limits on
deposit mobilization and lending to banks not meeting the capital adequacy ratio. By
September 1999, it will withdraw the licenses of these banks and start procedures for
their liquidation. Second, immediate steps will be taken to place new management at
GCB and to offer for sale at least 30 percent of the Government's shares in the bank to a
strategic investor and sell remaining shares through the Ghana Stock Exchange. Third,
BOG has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with NIB and its owner, the
Government, which obligates NIB to comply with an agreed quantified and monitored



10
program for strengthening itself. With regard to the government-owned Agricultural
Development Bank (ADB), the Government will undertake a study of its role in rural
finance and options for ownership to be completed by June 2000. By this time, BOG will
have disposed of its shares in all banks (including a 30 percent share in ADB).
30. In parallel, the supervisory and liquidity management functions of BOG will be
further strengthened. By June 1999, it will enforce new regulations to limit banks'
foreign exchange exposure. In addition, the banking law and the central bank law are
being amended to, inter-alia, sharpen BOG's powers to intervene in troubled banks.
Revised draft legislation will be presented to Parliament by end 1999. BOG is also
taking steps to improve the efficiency of the domestic money market (treasury bills),
through the recent introduction of repurchase agreements and planned improvements in
its liquidity forecasting capabilities.
31. Divestiture. Initial divestiture efforts mostly focused on small and medium size
firms and were conducted on an ad-hoc basis. Major divestitures include the Ashanti
Goldfields Corporation (1994) and Ghana Telecom (1996). In 1995, the Government
launched a program to accelerate the divestiture of 139 enterprises under the Divestiture
Implementation Committee (DIC). However, only sixty enterprises have been divested
as of January 1999; ten in 1998. Main difficulties relate to low investor interest, delays in
outsourcing companies for divestiture, and problems with land titling and outstanding
liabilities. Meanwhile, in May 1998, the Government revised its divestiture list to
include all economically significant state owned corporations either for privatization
and/or private sector participation and adopted a policy to recruit qualified investment
banks/consulting firms to formulate and implement the appropriate divestiture strategy
for each enterprise.7  Of the referred list, the non-core assets of Ghana National
Petroleum Corporation (GNPC), and GOIL have been offered for sale while TOR, Ghana
Ports and Harbours and Ghana Water and Sewerage Company have been outsourced for
divestiture. As noted above, the divestiture strategy for remaining government banks has
been redefined.
32. To improve the pace and quality of the divestiture process, the Government
undertook during April 15-19, 1999 a comprehensive review of the program in the
context of the mid-term review of the on-going IDA-financed Public Enterprise and
Privatization Technical Assistance (PEPTA) project. On this basis, the Government has
decided to assign greater resources and attention to the larger, more significant
divestitures, to streamline the bidding process, and increase the speed of decision making.
Specifically, all qualification issues will be assessed up-front and selection of winning
bids will be based on price only. Smaller enterprises would be disposed of more rapidly
through clear procedures that do not require high level decision making. The completion
of the entire divestiture program is targeted for end 2001. At the same time, the
Government will intensify its public information program on divestitures including, inter-
7  These included non-core GNPC assets, theTema Oil Refinery, Ghana Airways, Electricity Company
of Ghana, Ghana Oil Company, Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation, Ghana Ports and Haibours
Authority, Ghana Railways Corporation, and the remaining (five) state-owned banks.



11
alia, the dissemination of the findings of the forthcoming impact assessment and
continued publication of DIC's audited financial statements.
33. Institutional and Regulatory Reforms. There has been considerable legislation
enacted to promote private investment, including the Free Zones Act (1995) and the
Ghana Investment Promotion Act (1994). Furthermore, the IDA-financed Gateway
Trade and Investment Program, approved in July 1998, is now under implementation.
The program aims to attract a critical mass of investors in non-traditional exports by
providing the off-site infrastructure for a privately owned free trade zone. The program
also entails reorganizing the customs and immigration services and enhancing the
investment promotion program. The establishment of independent regulatory bodies,
such as the PURC and EC, will provide the necessary basis for increased private sector
participation in the provision of energy and water services. Furthermore, in February
1998, the Government created a fully independent road fund, financed from a petroleum
tax, to ensure adequate maintenance of the road infrastructure.
(b) Public Sector Management Reform
34. The Government has begun to implement a public sector reform program to be
carried out over the next decade. The Bank will assist the implementation of this long-
term program through an Adaptable Program Lending (APL) operation just approved by
the Board. Initial efforts will focus on (i) reforming central management agencies (e.g.,
the Ministry of Finance, the Public Service Commission, the National Development
Planning Commission, the Office of Head of Civil Service) and (ii) rationalizing 175
subvented agencies employing approximately 400,000 staff. All central management
agencies will be restructured by end 2001. The objective of the exercise is to address on-
going weaknesses such as duplication of functions, lack of uniform standards and
guidelines, and poor performance and accountability. In 1998, the Government initiated
a pilot program to close down/restructure at least seventeen subvented agencies by end-
2001. The pilot will involve the closure of at least five; the partial commercialization of
at least seven (a minimum of 30 percent of whose expenditures will be removed from the
budget), and the full commercialization of five. Cabinet is expected to approve the
specific agencies to be targeted in the pilot by mid 1999. The legal framework and
procedures for closing down or commercializing subvented agencies created by statute
will be enacted by end 1999. As part of this program, the Government will develop out-
placement and re-deployment initiatives to assist redundant employees. In addition, the
Govemment is setting up a new wage structure for public servants. The first phase,
which involved a re-grading and re-classification of the entire public service, has been
completed and will facilitate the assessment of the financial implications of proposed
wage reforms. Inplementation of the new wage structure is to be conducted within
budget constraints.
35. Decentralization. The Local Government Act enacted in 1993, recognized the
existence of 110 district assemblies. A District Assembly Common Fund, created in
1995, receives by law not less than 5 percent of domestic tax revenue and channels
resources from the Village Infrastructure Project and the recently established Social



12
Investment Fund. Several other sources of funds and administrative responsibilities are
being deconcentrated, notably those of the new Ghana Health Service and the Ministry of
Agriculture. The 1999 budget has allocated 163 billion cedis (about US$65 million) to
the District Assemblies Common Fund to finance investments at the local level. As this
trend continues, district administrations, which are very weak, will need to strengthen
their management and financial capabilities. By mid-1999, draft legislation will be
submitted to Parliament to establish a local government service with the aim of
improving the districts' capacity to manage expenditure and raise their own revenues. A
fiscal decentralization study is to be completed by end 2000.
C.  Human Development and Poverty Reduction
36. To accomplish its social development objectives, the Government has emphasized
the reorientation of resources to the social sectors and to poverty reduction programs. The
share of health and education in total domestically-financed expenditures dropped sharply
between 1990 and 1995, from 36 percent to 17 percent. Since then the share of
expenditures in health and education has gradually recovered reaching 22 percent in 1998
(5.6 percent and 16.5 percent respectively). Under the MTEF, allocations to health and
education are programmed to reach, 29 percent of domestically-financed expenditures by
2001. Key targets for 2001 under the Government's health sector program include: (i)
reducing infant mortality to 50 deaths per thousand live births; (ii) reducing the fertility
rate to 5 births; and (iii) reducing maternal mortality to 100 per hundred thousand live
births. The main objectives in education are to increase the gross enrollment rate in
primary schools to 81.2 percent by 2001 and improve pupils achievements in learning
tests.
37.  The Government has also launched a series of targeted interventions at the local
and community level to protect those who have not directly benefited from overall
economic growth. Main programs include, the National Program for Poverty Reduction,
the Village Infrastructure Project, the Social Investment Fund, and micro-finance and
rural-finance schemes. Under these schemes, resources are channeled to poor groups and
communities through District Assemblies, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and
community-based organizations. The new IDA-financed Community Development
Learning and Innovation Loan (L1L), to be approved in FY99, will target street children,
nutrition programs, and poverty monitoring. In addition, the Government's Accelerated
Agricultural Growth Strategy supports small-scale and commercial private agriculture,
including out-grower schemes. The: Government is also preparing a sector-wide program
to coordinate support from all donors involved in agriculture-related activities for
implementation in 2000.
D. Medium-Term Outlook and Financing Requirements
38. Ghana's medium-term macroeconomic prospects assume continued political
stability, successful stabilization, implementation of the policy agenda for private sector
development, and adequate public spending on social services and rural infrastructure.
Real GDP growth, averaging about 6 percent annually over the 1999-2001 period, is to be



13
derived from increases in agricultural productivity (e.g., in the cocoa sector) and
increased private investment in the agro-processing industry (food, wood products) and
light metal manufacturing mainly for exports. Private investmnent is projected to increase
to 15 percent of GDP by 2001. Concessional extemal assistance will continue to play a
significant role in Ghana's economic development.
39. After a projected slowdown in 1999, reflecting lower cocoa volumes due to
unfavorable rainfall patterns, export growth will pick up in subsequent years led by non-
traditional exports. New investments in export processing zone activities under the
Gateway project should begin to bear fruit by 2001. Import volumes will grow in tandem
with real GDP and will stay moderate in nominal terms assuming low oil prices and
international inflation. The current external account deficit, including official transfers, is
projected to average 2.6 percent of GDP over the next three years. Gross international
reserves are projected to reach 3 months of imports in 2001. Adherence to the
Government's fiscal and monetary targets should permit it to maintain a stable real
exchange rate and thus help preserve Ghana's external competitiveness. Ghana's stock
of public external debt stood at about US$5.9 billion at the end of 1998, or about 80
percent of GDP. In net present value terms, the external public debt was estimated at
below 200 percent of exports of goods and services. The external debt service ratio (as a
percentage of goods and non-factor services) is projected to decline to below 19 percent
by the year 2001.  This decline in the debt service ratio will be buttressed by the
Government's on-going moratorium on non-concessional borrowing.
Table 1. Ghana: Selected Economic Indicators, 1995-2001
(annual % change)
Real GDP                                4.0    4.6    4.2    4.6        5.5    6.0    6.0
Consumer Prices (end-period)           70.8   32.7   20.8    15.8    9.0    5.0    5.0
(as % of GDP)
Domestic Revenue                       21.4    19.2   17.3    18.3    18.8   18.9   19.1
Total Grants                            3.8    2.6    1.4    2.2    2.4    2.0    1.7
Total Expenditure                      31.8   32.6   28.6   28.6   26.8   25.6   24.4
Overall Balance (commitment basis)     -6.4    -9.5   -9.9   -8.1    -5.5    -4.7   -3.6
Domestic Primary Balance                1.6    0.3    3.2    3.6    3.5    3.6    3.7
NetDomestic Borrowing                  -0.4    5.1    5.1       5.0    2.8    2.7    1.3
External Current Account Balance a/    -2.3    -4.7   -8.8   -3.5    -2.9    -2.5   -2.4
Gross Intemational Reserves b/          4.4    4.4    2.6    2.5        2.7    2.8    3.0
Extenal Public Debt (US$ bn)            5.6    5.8    5.6    5.9    6.2         6.4    6.6
Extemal Debt Service ratio (%) c/      35.8   35.6   31.6   28.1    24.5    24.7   18.7
Source: Government of Ghana and staff projections.
a/ Including external grants.
bJ In months of imports of goods and non-factor services.
c/ In percent of exports of goods and nonfactor services.
40.    External financing requirements over the 1999-2000 period would total about
US$1.7 billion. While adequate financing has been identified for 1999 (including this
proposed Credit), a residual gap of about US$70 million has been estimated for 2000. It
is hoped that the gap would be covered by additional donor pledges at the forthcoming
Consultative Group Meeting (CG) scheduled for November 1999.



14
III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.   Credit Rationale and Components
41. The proposed Credit follows up on the one-tranche Economic Reform Support
Operation (ERSO) which was approved by the Board in June 1998. The ERSO
supported the completion of an important phase of reforms in Ghana and laid the
foundations for the next generation of reforms in the areas of public sector management,
privatization, and the cocoa and energy sectors. The Government has made good
progress in implementing the ERSO reform agenda including measures identified as
triggers for proceeding with further adjustment support. Notably, fiscal performance has
remained broadly on track, inflation and real interest rates have declined, the VAT has
been re-introduced smoothly, the 1999 budget was prepared for the first time on an
MTEF basis, and electricity tariffs have been substantially increased to ensure the
financial viability of the utilities. Moreover, a new medium term strategy for the cocoa
sector has been developed with a view to enhancing both the growth prospects of the
sector and the incomes of cocoa farmers.
Box 1. Ghana: Implementation of Triggers under ERSO a/
Triggers under ERSO                         Date of Completion
*  Achievement of main fiscal targets for 1998  1998 targets broadly on track, 1999 agreed in
and agreement on program for 1999        February 1999
.  Re-introduction of the VAT               December 1998
*  Establishment of Central Revenue Authority  December 1998
*  Fornulation of 1999 budget on an MEF basis  January 1999
*  Adequate progress hi the divestiture program  Partially done. Good progress on large enterprises.
.  Actions to restore financial viability of public   September 1998
energy utilities, including regularization of
arrears and further tariff increase
*  Complete a medium term cocoa strategy    Februaryl999
.  At least match cocoa producer prices with those  On-going. Done for 1998/99 crop season
of neighboring countries
a/ Excludes two measures relating to public sectDr reform which are being monitored under the proposed Public Sector
Reform Management APL.
42.  Building on the on-going reform  momentum, the proposed Credit seeks to
consolidate recent gains in restoring macroeconomic stability and support the
implementation of difficult reforms in the cocoa, power, and financial sectors. Fiscal
policies supported under the Credit are aimed at improving fiscal sustainability while
raising the efficiency of resource mobilization and use. In particular, the termination of
specific road contracts will address the root cause of large payment arrears thus removing
an important source of fiscal imbalance and resource misallocation. Also, the elimination
of the 'special tax' on imports will begin a process to further rationalize the import tariff
regime so as to provide adequate incentives to local industry within a regional context.
Very importantly, the proposed Credit will support the implementation of a revised
strategy for the cocoa sector developed with strong stakeholder ownership. As part of
this strategy, and in light of a recent downfall in the export price, the increase in the
farmers' share of the fob price will Ibe further accelerated while external marketing will



15
be gradually opened to private competition. In the power sector, the proposed Credit
supports the implementation of key elements of the remaining reform agenda as outlined
in the recently published power sector strategy, particularly the establishment of
regulations for the market and the divestiture of ECG's electricity distribution units. In
the financial sector, the proposed Credit will seek to enhance the soundness of the
financial system and remove a source of quasi-fiscal pressures by targeting the closure of
distressed banks and continuing the divestiture of remaining government banks.
43. The proceeds of the proposed Credit will help cover Ghana's external financing
requirements in the context of a vulnerable external position and low level of reserves.
Moreover, by providing counterpart funds for the budget, the Credit will help reduce the
government's net domestic financing and domestic debt burden by limiting increases in
the stock of debt and supporting a decline in real interest rates.
B.  Specific Actions Supported by the Credit
44. Prior to negotiations of the Credit, the Government:
i. removed the 'special tax' of 17.5 percent levied on selected import products;
ii. obtained Cabinet approval of an action plan to terminate seven contracts
underlying 70 percent of the road arrears;
iii. obtained Cabinet approval of a revised medium term strategy for the cocoa
sector, including accelerated increases of farmers' share in the fob price and
allowing qualified licensed buying companies to export 30 percent of cocoa
purchases;
iv. issued instructions to ensure that all licensed cocoa buying companies will
have equal access to Cocobod financing and warehousing facilities;
v. published a Statement of Power Sector Development Policy;
vi. established quarterly targets for banks not meeting the capital adequacy
requirements, including limits on deposit mobilization and lending;
vii. agreed on a strategy to resolve the insolvent position of the Bank for Housing
and Construction (BHC) and the Cooperative Bank (Coop).
45. Prior to Board presentation of the Credit, the Government:
i. publicly announced its revised medium term strategy for the cocoa sector,
including a timetable of agreed actions;
ii. signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Bank of Ghana and
NIB to stop further deterioration of the bank.



16
46. Prior to Second Tranche release of the Credit, the Government will have:
i. increased the cocoa farmers' share in the fob price to 65 percent in the
1999/2000 crop season,
ii. issued instructions to allow qualified licensed cocoa buying companies to
export 30 percent of their domestic purchases starting with the 2000/2001
crop season;
iii. withdrawn the licenses of all commercial banks which do not meet the capital
adequacy ratio requirement;
iv. offered for sale8 at least 30 percent of the shares of the GCB to a strategic
investor and placed remaining shares in the Stock Exchange;
v. presented to Parliament a legislative instrument establishing the electricity
regulations for the operation of the national interconnected electricity system.
47.   Prior to Floating Tranche release of the Credit, the Government will have:
i. offered for sale9 shares in ECG's electricity distribution business unit(s) to
strategic investor(s).
C.  Poverty Impact
48. The Credit would contribute to improving the economic prospects of the poor in
Ghana by supporting the Government's efforts to reduce inflation and to stay the course
with economic reforms that will enhance the prospects for sustainable broad-based
ecofiomic growth and employment generation. The anticipated decline in interest rates
will lower interest payments and thus help release public funds to finance expenditures in
health and education. Of direct importance to the poor in this Credit will be measures to
raise the incomes of cocoa farmers. There are about 800,000 cocoa farmers in Ghana
who support about 5 million people. As a result of direct and indirect multiplier effects
of proposed measures, it is estimated that roughly one million cocoa household members
who are currently below the poverty line would be lifted out of poverty by the year 2005.
The divestiture and banking restructuring program would indirectly benefit the poor, by
moving the state away from activities that can be better performed by the private sector
and thereby releasing funds for development expenditures and basic services.
"Offer for sale" means that the Government would have: (i) prepared a prospectus or information
memorandum with the assistance of an investment adviser, (ii) solicited bids from potential investors;
and (iii) evaluated technical and financial proposals.
See above definition of "offer for sale".



17
D.  Link to the CAS
49. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Ghana, discussed by the
Executive Directors in September 1997, supports the Government's overall strategy for
poverty reduction. Key elements of the CAS include restoring macroeconomic stability;
ensuring a breakthrough in private investment (especially in non-traditional exports);
promoting broad-based social and rural development; and implementing direct poverty-
reduction interventions. By underpinning stabilization efforts and including measures to
remove constraints for private sector development, the proposed Credit is fully consistent
with the CAS. The CAS proposes a base case lending amount in the US$430-660 million
rangel'. Within this range, lending would be graduated in response to changes in key
indicators during the CAS period, including benchmarks for the primary fiscal surplus
and social and health spending, as well as progress in implementing the unfinished
reform agenda for promoting private investment, i.e., regulatory reform for infrastructure
(power, rails, ports), revenue reform (VAT, central revenue authority), domestic cocoa
deregulation (privatization of PBC), and public service reform. The present operation
goes a long way towards meeting these goals and takes Ghana closer to the high end of
the lending range, particularly, by breaking new ground on cocoa reforms.
E.  Credit Amount, Disbursement Procedures and Implementation Arrangements
50. Credit Amount. The amount of the Credit is proposed at US$180 million. This
will bring the level of adjustment lending during the FY98-00 to US$230 million
compared with US$150 million envisaged under the CAS's base case scenario. The
higher amount is justified given progress in implementing the reform agenda in the
cocoa, energy, and fiscal areas. Notably, proposed reforms in the cocoa sector represent
a major breakthrough in policy dialogue and underscore the Government's commitment
to poverty reduction. Moreover, the proposed accelerated increases in the farmers' share
of the fob price will result in substantial revenue shortfall which would warrant further
financial assistance, particularly in the context of currently weak international prices for
cocoa. In addition, the CAS provides for increased adjustment lending, or a "safety net"
of adjustment loans, should the domestic debt burden (level of external reserves) be
higher (lower) than originally projected under the macroeconomic program. This is
certainly the case in Ghana. Despite the recent tight fiscal and monetary stance, interest
rates did not come down as rapidly as originally envisaged and domestic interest
payments during 1998-2000 will be above earlier projections by about 1.5 percent of
GDP (equivalent to US$100 million).
51.  Tranche Release. The Credit will be disbursed in three tranches. The first tranche
in an amount equivalent to US$80 million will be disbursed upon effectiveness. The
second and floating tranches, in amounts equivalent to US$80 million and US$20
million, respectively, will be released upon completion of agreed actions. The program
10  The bottom end of the range (i.e.US$430 million) assumes no adjustment lending and is applicable if
fiscal performance is on track but not much progress is made on the reform agenda.



18
was designed to emphasize actions taken prior to Credit approval to demonstrate progress
in turning the fiscal situation around and Govermment's commitment to the program.
52. Procurement and Disbursement Procedures. The Credit will follow the Bank's
new simplified disbursement procedures for structural adjustment operations. Under the
revised procedures, the Credit will be disbursed in three tranches against satisfactory
implementation of the adjustrnent program. Disbursement will not be tied to any specific
purchases and no procurement requirements will be needed. Once the Credit is approved
by the Board, the proceeds of the first tranche of the Credit will be deposited by IDA in
an account at Bank of Ghana at the request of the Borrower. Subsequent tranches will be
deposited in the same account once the agreed conditions are met. If, after deposit in this
account, the proceeds of the Credit are used for ineligible purposes as defined in the
Credit Agreement, IDA will require the Borrower to either: (a) return the amount to the
account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to IDA. The
administration of this Credit will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance.
Although an audit of the deposit account will not be required, the Bank reserves the right
to require audits at any time.
53. Implementation of the policy and actions under the program will be monitored by a
technical committee from the Minister of Finance and the Bank of Ghana. The
committee will prepare progress reports on the various components of the program with
inputs from participating ministries and agencies. IDA will monitor implementation of
the program through regular supervision missions.
54. Impact Indicators. To monitor the proposed Credit's impact, the following
indicators will be monitored on an annual basis: (i) domestic interest payments as a share
of recurrent expenditures; (ii) expenditures in health and education as a share of
domestically-financed expenditures; (iii) road arrears as a share of GDP; (iv) volume of
cocoa exports; (v) non-performing loans in the banking system; and (vi) private
investment as a share of GDP. (For details on impact indicators see Annex G).
F.  Program Benefits and Risks
55.   Benefits. Successful completion of the program should enable the Government to
maintain a stable macroeconomic framework and to create firmer grounds for sustained,
broad-based, private sector-led economic growth. The reduction in inflation will have a
beneficial impact on the poor. The anticipated decline in domestic interest rates and
reduced debt service payments will allow for an expansion private sector credit as well as
increased spending in health, education and poverty reduction programs. Moreover, the
proposed reforns in the cocoa sector will provide incentives for increased cocoa
production and will lead to increases in farmers' incomes with large multiplier effects on
the rural economy. Reforms in the energy sector intended to facilitate private sector
participation in power generation and distribution are likely to enhance private activity.
Finally, financial sector reforms will improve the soundness of the financial system and
eliminate sources of quasi-fiscal deficits and inefficient allocation of financial resources.



19
56. Risks. As the 2000 elections approach, the risk of policy slippage increases.
However, the Government is aware that the population at large has been hard-hit by
inflation and low per-capita GDP growth and is politically committed to having in place
the necessary policies that will underpin a process of sustained growth and poverty
reduction. Over the past two years, the Government has demonstrated greater fiscal
discipline and has reinstated politically sensitive measures such as the VAT and the
increase in electricity tariffs. In this spirit, it has wholeheartedly embraced the MTEF
process as an instrument for more effective and transparent expenditure management.
The approval of a new three-year ESAF program offers an additional source of comfort.
It should be underscored, however, that the Government will likely face opposition to
proposed reforms in the cocoa sectors from special groups, i.e., Cocobod and
international cocoa importers, who may perceive these reforms as a threat to Ghana's
quality standing in world markets as well as their economic interests. The Government is
mitigating this risk by conducting extensive consultations with all stakeholders and by
adopting a gradual approach to policy reforms in the sector. In particular, concerns about
safeguarding the quality of cocoa beans will be addressed by maintaining the quality
control function within the public sector during the transition period. There is also the
risk of opposition to proposed reforms in the financial sector. The Government intends to
manage these risks by protecting depositors, reimbursing terminated staff, and
implementing a public relations campaign. On GCB, there is a risk of not finding a
suitable strategic investor both because of some public opposition to the sale and adverse
market conditions following the Asian crisis. Given the complex nature of the proposed
privatization of ECG, unforeseen delays are likely. The floating tranche provides an
appropriate vehicle to address such risk. Finally, after its recent downfall, the export
price for cocoa is expected to recover over time, but if it remains depressed for a
prolonged period, gains from proposed reforms may not materialize. The Government's
ability to manage external shocks from commodity prices (including gold and timber) is
limited in the short term.
IV. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND
COLLABORATION WITH OTHER DONORS
57. Bank Group. As of March 31, 1999, the Bank's active portfolio for Ghana
included 24 projects, totaling US$1,014 million, of which US$474 million were
undisbursed. The Intemational Finance Corporation's (IFC) total investments amounted
to US$60 million, comprised of US$26 million in loans, US$7 million in equity, US$14
million in quasi-equity, and US$13 million in participation. Currently, Ghana does not
have guarantees from the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA).
58.  International Monetary Fund (EMF). Bank staff are working closely with the
IMF and other donors in helping Ghana design and implement its reform program. The
Bank and the IMF collaborated with the Ghanaian authorities on the preparation of the
eighth Policy Framework Paper covering the 1999-2001 period. The PFP was distributed
to the Bank Board in mid-April 1999. A new three-year ESAF Arrangement for Ghana
was approved by the Fund's Board on May 3, 1999. The Government of Ghana plans to



20
conduct, with the Fund, a midterm review of its program supported by the first annual
arrangement by September 1999.
59. Other Donors. The Bankl Group is increasing its collaboration with donor
agencies, the United Nations system, and NGOs. The Bank, as Chair of the CG, provides
the forum for meetings every alternate year. Following the November 1997 CG meeting,
the Government and the Bank sponsored the creation of the Government/Donor
Economic and Finance Coordinating Group, which meets quarterly under the co-
chairmanship of the Minister of Finance and the Bank. The next CG meeting is
scheduled for November 1999 in Accra. Consultations with bilateral and multilateral
donors also take place in the context of specific projects or programs and also under the
Special Program of Assistance for Africa. The development of sector programs in roads
and health has enhanced donor coordination considerably. A sector program is also being
prepared for agriculture.
V. RECOMMENDATION
60. I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 4, 1999



Annex A
Page 1 of 2
Matrix of Policy Actions
The Reform Agenda Supported by ERSO II
Objectives           Specific Measures                                       Status
Fiscal Reform
Enhance revenue  Re-introduction of the VAT                              Trigger under ERSO
mobilization                                                             December 1998
Establishment of Central Revenue Authority (now Revenue  Trigger under ERSO
Authorities Governing Board)                            December 1998
Increase        Formulation of 1999 budget on an MTEF basis              Trigger under ERSO
efficiency of                                                            January 1999
public spending
Cabinet approval of an action plan to terminate seven contracts   Condition of
underlying 70 percent of the road arrears and to eliminate them    Negotiations
by the end of 2000
Implement BPEMS system in targeted ministries and spending    Budgets for 2000 and
units                                                   2001
Remove          Remove the 'special tax' of 17.5 percent levied on selected  Condition of
distortions     import products                                         Negotiations
Complete comprehensive review of tariff regime.         September 1999
Reduce the tariff top rate to 20 percent in harmony with the  Budget for 2000
subregion.
Cocoa Sector Reform
Define long term   Complete a medium term cocoa strategy                ERSO trigger
visionFeray19
Cabinet approval of a revised medium term strategy for the cocoa Condition of
sector, including accelerated increases of farmers' share in the    Negotiations
fob price and allowing qualified licensed buying companies to
export 30 percent of cocoa purchases
Publicly announce revised medium term strategy for the cocoa    Conditionfor Board
sector, including a detailed timetable of actions       presentation
Increase farners' Increase the cocoa farmers' share in fob price to 65 percent in the Second Tranche
incentives      1999/2000 crop season                                    condition
Encourage       Issue instructions to ensure that all cocoa licensed buying  Condition of
competition in    companies will have equal access to Cocobod financing and  Negotiations
cocoa marketing  warehousing facilities
Offer for sale the Produce Buying Company               June 1999
Issue instructions to allow qualified cocoa licensed buying  Second Tranche
companies to export 30 percent of their domestic purchases  condition
starting with the 2000/1 crop season



Annex A
Page 2 of 2
Energy Sector Reform
Define long term   Publish a Statement of Power Sector Development Policy  Condition of
vision           agreeable to IDA                                         Negotiations
Rationalize      Complete and issue Transitional Power System Development  September 1999
sector investment Plan (1999-2001)
Establish a      Publish and implement complete guidelines for fixing electricity  September 1999
transparent     tariffs
regulations
Submit to Parliament the legislative instrument establishing the   Second Tran che
electricity regulations for the operation of the National  condition
Interconnected System
Restructure     Adopt financial restructuring plan for the electricity utilities  ERSO trigger
electricity     including regularizatio:n of arrears and further tariff increase  September 1998
utilities
Complete separation of electricity transmission utility (National  December 1999
Grid Company Ltd.) from Volta River Authority (VRA)
Increase private   Offer for sale ECG's distribution units                Floating Tranche
sector                                                                    condition
participation
Financial Sector Reform
Stop further     Establish quarterly targets for banks not meeting the capital  Condition of
deterioration of   adequacy requirements, including limits on deposit mobilization   Negotiations
troubled banks    and lending
Agree on a strategy to resolve the insolvent positions of the Bank Condition of
for Housing and Construction (BHC) and the Cooperative Bank Negotiations
(Coop) in 1999.
Withdraw the licenses of banks not meeting the capital adequacy  Second Tranche
ratio requirement                                        condition
Sign a Memorandum of Understanding between Ministry of   Condition of Board
Finance, Bank of Ghana and NIB                           presentation
Reduce           Offer for sale 30 perce:nt ofGCB's shares to a strategic investor   Second Tranche
govemment        and place remaining shares in the Ghana Stock Exchange   condition
ownership in
banking system
Select a strategic investor for NIB or re-launch search with  June 1999
assistance of financial adviser
Complete study on role of ADB in rural finance           June 2000
Strengthen      Implement revised guidelines for foreign currency exposure  June 1999
banking          limits
supervision
Submit revised draft central bank law and banking law to  December 1999
parliament



Annex B
Ghana at a glance                                                             4P29age  of 2
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan     Low-
Ghana    Africa  income        Developmentdiamond^
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                     18.4       614     2,048                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   407       500       350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     7.5       309       722
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                       2.6       2.7       2.1
Labor force (%)                                      2.7       2.6       2.3     GNP                             Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                            capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  31
Urban population (% of total population)              37        32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      59        52        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              69        90        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under5)             27        27         ..             Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                56        44        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  36        43        47
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  76        75        91                  Ghana
Male                                                83        82       100                 Low-income group
Female                                              70        67        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987       1997     1998
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                          3.2      5.1        6.9      7.5
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                11.1    10.4      24.1      22.9                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           10.5    19.7      24.0      26.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  10.0     3.9        9.8     13.2
Gross national savings/GDP                  9.6      5.6       15.4     19.4
Current account balance/GDP                 -4.5    -4.4      -11.1     -6.6     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                       0.5      1.1        1.9      2.0     Domengst                    Investment
Total debVGDP                              33.4     64.6       81.3     79.2   | Savngs
Total debt service/exports                  3.7    45.8        34.1     31.1
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..      ..      54.2      50.8
Present value of debVexports                 ..       ..    220.3    186.6
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98    1997      1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 0.4      4.3     4.2        4.6      6.1
GNP per capita                     -2.7      1.4      1.7       1.9      3.5            Ghana        Low-icome group
Exports of goods and services      -4.7     9.7    -0.4        14.4      5.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987       1997     1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                       30
Agriculture                                56.2     50.6       36.6     36.8    20
Industry                                   15.8    16.3       25.4      25.0     1 0
Manufacturing                             10.8      9.9       8.3       8.3     0
Services                                   28.0    33.1        38.0     38.2    -10    95   94   X       9    97   9s
-20
Private consumption                        77.4    85.5        77.8     76.5    -30
General govemment consumption               12.6    10.6       12.4     10.3                    GDI       C  GDP
Imports of goods and services              11.6    26.2       38.4      36.4
1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  0.8     2.5        2.2      3.7   25
Industry                                    -4.0     4.5       4.8       5.7   20.A
Manufacturing                             -4.0      2.9       4.0       5.0   15 -
Services                                     1.9     6.0       5.9       4.9   10  
Private consumption                         0.3      3.7       12.1      1.6     s/
General government consumption               1.4     4.6      -11.7     11.3     0
Gross domestic investment                   -4.6     3.8       3.4       2.8   -s    93   94            9S   97   93
Imports of goods and services               -7.0     7.3       14.7      8.3                  Exports   -0Imports
Gross national product                      0.2      4.3       4.3       4.6
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex B
Page 2 of 2
Ghana
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1977    1987        1997      1998     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                         80
Consumer prices                             116.5    39.8       27.9      19.3    60
Implicit GDP deflator                        67.3    39.2       19.5      17.6    40
Government Finance                                                                 20
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                0a
Current revenue                                ..    14.1       17.8      18.9            93   94   95   90   97   98
Current budget balance                                 2.9       1.6       1.6             -GDP deflator -6---CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                               -5.1     -10.8      -9.7    ___                deflator _ )CPI
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987        1997     1998      Exportand import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..    824       1,491     1,830     3,ooO
Cocoa                                        ..    495         470       629     2500I
Timber                                       ..       91       172       170
Manufactures                                  ..      ..                         2,000
Total imports (cif.    1,009                                   2,321     2,417     1r-T0
Food                                         ..       73*,100 2                                 3    4     5    7     5
Fuel and energy                               ..    145        240       212      500
Capital goods                                 ..     166          ...                  _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..      97         93       98
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..      69         97       81                0 Exports     Elmports
Terms oftrade (1995=100)                       ..    141          96       121
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987        1997     1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               1,018     903      1,656    2,004       0    -1 -
Importsof goods and services                1,121    1,203     2,645     2,732     -2  92   93                   97 T  
Resource balance                             -103     -300      -989      -728     -4
Net income                                    -35    -127       -134      -142     -6
Net current transfers                         -6      202        360      378      -8
-10
Current account balance                      -144    -225       -763      -492     12
Financing items (net)                        254      363        787       591    -14
Changes in net reserves                      -109     -138       -25       -99    -16
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       182      332        508       502
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)              3.5   147.0   2,050.2   2,314.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1,067    3,280     5,599    5,943
IBRD                                        43      151         30       27                     G:| 28
IDA                                         79      700      2,617     2,963
F: 704
Total debt service                            38      415        578       636
IBRD                                         5       22         15        9
IDA                                          1        7         31       46
B: 2,617
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             65      122        160       230       E: 1,075
Official creditors                          70      254        350      325
Private creditors                           22        3        -76       -74
Foreign direct investment                    ..       5        110       152            0D:53
Portfolio equity                             ..       0         46       80                       C                       1
|            ~~~~~C: 354    
World Bank program
Commitments                                 57      233         54       165     A - IBRD                     E- Bilateral
Disbursements                               30      194        237      280      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         3       13         23       30      C-IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                   27      181        214      250   1                                           I
Interest payments                            3       16         22       25
Net transfers                               24      165        192      225
Development Economics                                                                                                4/29/99



Annex C
Page 1 of 3
Ghana - Key Economic Indicators
Actual                 Estimate          Projected
Indicator                1994     1995      1996     1997     1998     1999    2000    2001
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                     100       100      100      100      100      100      100      100
Agriculturea                             36.4     36.3     36.5      36.6     36.8     36.9     31.7     31.0
Industrya                                24.9     24.9     24.9      25.4     25.0     25.1     25.3     25.8
Servicesa                                28.0     28.2     28.1     28.7      29.1     28.9     33.9     34.0
Total Consumption                          87.4     88.3     88.1     90.2     86.8      85.3     83.7     82.1
Gross domestic fixed                       22.6     21.1     20.6     23.2     22.1      23.0     24.0     24.8
investment
Government investment                    13.3     14.0      13.3     12.4     11.3     11.1     11.3     10.6
Private investment                       10.7      6.0       8.2     11.7     11.6    12.6      13.4    14.8
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                            22.5     24.5     24.9     24.0     26.7      25.4     26.9     27.9
hmports (GNFS)                             33.9     32.8     34.5     38.4     36.4      34.5     35.2     35.5
Gross domestic savings                     12.6     11.7     11.9      9.8      13.2     14.7     16.3     17.9
Gross national savings'                    15.5     13.7     13.8     15.4      19.4     20.8     22.2     23.0
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                    5440     6457    6926    6884    7501         8070    8568      9334
(IJS$ million at current
prices)
Gross national productper                  327       378      395      383      407      426      441      469
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1975
prices)
Gross domestic product at               3.3%      4.0%     4.6%     4.2%     4.6%     5.5%     6.0%     6.0%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                   4.6%      3.5%     2.2%     4.6%     4.8%     5.8%     6.1%      6.2%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1975 prices)
Gross domestic product at               0.6%      1.4%     1.9%     1.5%     1.9%     2.8%     3.3%      3.4%
market prices
Total consumption                      -1.3%      0.7%    -0.8%     3.8%     0.9%     2.4%     2.5%      3.2%
Private consumption                     -1.5%     0.6%     1.7%     9.2%    -0.9%     1.9%     2.3%      3.1%
(Continued)



Annex C
Page 2 of 3
Ghana - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                 Estimate          Projected
Indicator                1994      1995     1996     1997     1998     1999    2000    2001
Balance of Payments
(US$m)
Exports (GNFS)b                          1374      1582     1730     1656    2004      2052    2301      2606
Merchandise FOB                        1227     1431      1573     1491     1830     1880    2119    2412
Irnports (GNFS)b                         2000    2126    2396    2645        2732     2782      3016    3310
Merchandise FOB                        1580     1684     1937    2128       2213     2253     2463     2719
Resource balance                          -626     -544     -666     -989     -728     -730     -715      -705
Net current transfers,                    271      263       276      360      378      380      418      439
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance                  -265      -154     -328     -603     -261     -233     -225      -258
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct                206       259       70       55      -11       45      100       100
investment
Long-term loans (net)                     228      395       556      660      484      502      284      325
Official                                 385      268      419       350      325      192      198      198
Private                                 -157       127      137      310      159      311       86      127
Other capital (net, including               -6    -289      -312      -87     -112     -236      -125      -79
errors and omissions)
Change inreservesd                       -164      -211       14      -25      -99      -77       -34      -88
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of                  -11.5%    -8.4%    -9.6%   -14.4%    -9.7%    -9.0%    -8.3%    -7.6%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1975 prices)
Merchandise exports                      0.6%     3.8%    12.5%    -0.7%    16.3%      3.5%     9.2%     7.8%
(FOB)
Primary                                 2.2%     5.4%    11.4%    -2.3%    15.2%      1.7%     7.6%     5.9%
Manufactures                               ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
Merchandise irnports                    -8.4%     1.8%    13.8%    14.4%    24.5%      7.1%     6.2%     6.2%
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)e
Current revenues                           20        22       18       18       19       19        19       19
Current expenditures                       18        16       16       16       17       16        14      14
(Continued)



Annex C
Page 3 of 3
Ghana - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                 Estimate          Projected
Indicator                1994      1995     1996     1997     1998     1999      2000    2001
Current account surplus (                    2        5        2        2        2         4        5        6
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                         13       14       13       12       11        11       11       11
Foreign fmancing                             7        7        6        6        5         4        3        3
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market                 19.4     18.4     17.6      19.9     19.0     19.0     19.0     19.0
prices)
Growth of M2 (%)                            53       41       40       41       18        15       14       12
Price indices( 1975 =100)
Merchandiseexportprice                      89      100       91       91      103        98      104      112
index
Merchandise import price                   121      127      129      144      134       126      132      137
index
Merchandise terms of trade                  74       79       71       63       77        77       79       81
index
Real exchange rate                          63       72       81       86       93       101      108      117
(IJS$/LCUJ)l
Real interest rates
Consumer price index                      24.9     74.3     46.6     27.9      19.3     10.0      6.4      5.0
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                              30.1     43.2     39.8      19.5     17.6      8.6      7.4      5.9
(% growth rate)
a. GDP components are estimated at factor cost.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Central government.
f "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex D
Page 1 of 1
Ghana: External Financing Requirements
1995       1996        1997        1998       1999       2000
Projections
Current Account                             -414        -534       -763        -492       -470       -422
(excluding official transfers)
Exports, f.o.b.                           1,431      1,573       1,491       1,830       1,880     2,119
Imports, f.o.b.                          - 1,684     -1,937     -2,128      -2,213      -2,253    -2,463
Services (net)                            -424        -446        -485       -487        -476       -497
Private transfers                          263         276         360        378         380        418
Capital account                             -208       -373        -267        -318       -345       -340
Scheduled amortization                    -365        -210        -230       -286        -311       -401
IMF repayments                            -108        -125        -166        -139        -78        -39
Other capital (net)'                       265         -37         128        107          45        100
Change in official reserves (increase -)    -149        100         140         -72        -59        -55
Change in arrears (decrease -)               -35       -100           0           0           0         0
Extemal financing requirements              -806        -906       -890        -882        -874       -817
Expected disbursements                       806        806         890         882         874       745
Girants                                   263         206         160         230        235        197
Project                                  179         153         128        188         185        159
Program                                   84          52          31         42          51         38
Concessional loans                         501        561         730         540        579        488
Project                                  415         487         690        447         438        367
Program                                   86          74          41         93         141        121
Of which IDA                                                                           80         80
IMF                                         43         40           0         111         61         60
Debt deferral / Financing Gap                  0         100          0           0           0        73
Sources: Data provided by the Ghanaian authorities; and Fund staff estimates and projections.



Annex E
Page 1 of 1
Ghana Social Indicators
Latest single year             Same regiontincome group
Sub-
Saharan          Low-
1970-75      1980-85      1990-96              Africa      income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)           9.8          12.6         17.5              596.4       3,236.2
Growth rate (% annual average)                2.7           3.2          2.7                2.7           1.8
Urban population (% of population)             30.1          32.3         36.4               31.7          29.1
Total fertility rate (births per woman)         6.6           6.3          5.0                5.6           3.2
POVERTY
(% of populafionr
National headcount index                         ..            *          31.4
Urban headcount index                           ..          ..          26.7
Rural headcount index                          ..           ..          34.3
INCOME
GNP per capita (US$)                            300          360          390                490           490
Consumer price index (1987=100)                  ..           57         1,070               266           275
Food price index (1987=100)                      ..           60          980
INCOMEICONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
(% of income or consumption)
Lowest quintile                                  ..            ..          7.9
Highest quintile                                 ..            ..         42.2
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                              ..            ..          1.3                 ..           1.5
Education (% of GNP)                           ..          2.6           3.1                5.3           3.6
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)         ..            ..
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total
Male
Female
Access to safe water
(% of population)
Total                                          35            ..          56                 45            76
Urban                                        86            ..          70                 63            80
Rural                                        14            ..          49                 34            72
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                        ..            1           54                 56            80
DPT                                             ..          19           51                 55             81
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)              .            ..           27
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                          50           51            59                52             63
Male                                         48           49           57                 51            62
Female                                       52           53           61                 54            64
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)             107           93           71                 91            68
Under 5 (perthousand live births)             187          157           110               147            94
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                 459          400          320                448           231
Female (per 1,000 population)               377          334          253                376           206
Maternal (per 100,000 live births)              ..        1,000         740
World Development Indicators 1998 CD-ROM, World Bank



Annex F
Page 1 of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Ghana
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual                  Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                              disbursements a/        Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year                 Borrower                           Purpose
IBRD       IDA       Cancel.      Undisb.       Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 75
Active Prjects
GH-PE-910        1990   REPUBLIC OF GHANA                 URBAN II(SEC CITIES)                       0.00       70.00        0.00          2.00       -4.30         0.00      S           S
GH-PE-918        1991   GOVT OF GHANA                     AGRIC DIVERS (TREE C                       0.00       16.50        1.85          5.35        6.40         6.40      S           S
GH-PE-931        1992   GOVERNMENT                        AGRIC EXTENSION                            0.00       30.40        0.00          6.84        6.40         6.40       S          S
GH-PE-956        1993   GOVERNMENT                        URBAN TRANSPORT                            0.00       76.20        0.00         10.93       10.79        -3.33      S           S
GH-PE-953        1993   GOVT OF GHANA                     NAT'L ELECTRIFICATIO                       0.00       80.00        0.00         10.97       13.34         5.39      S           S
GH-PE-930        1993   GOVERNMENT                        LIVESTOCK                                  0.00       22.45          .38         2.74        3.66         3.27      S           U
GH-PE-961        1994   TBD                               AGRIC SECTOR INVEST                        0.00       21.50        0.00          5.49        2.30        -1.77      S           S
GH-PE-936        1994   GOVERNMENT                        LOCAL GOVT DEV.                            0.00       38.50        0.00         15.73        6.70         0.00      NA          NA
GH-PE-924        1994   GOVERNMENT OF GHANA               COMMUNITY WATER & SA                       0.00       21.96        0.00          8.85        6.82         0.00      S           S
GH-PE-966        1995   GOVERNMENT                        MINING SEC.DEV & ENV                       0.00       12.30        0.00          6.39        4.12         0.00      S           S
GH-PE-962        1995   REP OF GHANA                      FISHERIES                                  0.00        9.00        0.00          4.86        2.43         0.00      S           S
GH-PE-960        1995   GOVT OF GHANA                     PRIV SECTOR DEV                            0.00       13.00        0.00          8.98        7.47         0.00      U           U
GH-PE-948        1995   GOVERNMENT                        EDUC/VOC.TRNG                              0.00        9.60        0.00          5.95        4.03         0.00      U           U
GH-PE-926        1995   GOVT OF GHANA                     THERMAL (P-VII)                            0.00      175.60        0.00         53.43       48.06        13.46       S          S
GH-PE-42516      1996                                     PUBLIC ENTERPRISE/PR                       0.00       26.45        0.00         18.99        4.37         0.00      NA          NA
GH-PE-975        1996   GOVERNMENT                        BASIC EDUCATION                            0.00       50.00        0.00         43.09       20.14         0.00      U           U
GH-PE-973        1996   MINISTRY OF FINANCE               URBAN ENV.SANITATION                       0.00       71.00        0.00         51.68       31.81         0.00      S           S
GH-PE-957        1996   GOVERNMENT                        HWY SECT INV.PROG                          0.00      100.00        0.00         65.05        7.77         0.00      S           S
GH-PE-943        1996   GOVT OF GHANA                     NON-BANK FIN INS AST                       0.00       23.90        0.00         18.19       13.87         0.00      S           U
GH-PE-45588      1997   GOVERNMENT                        PUB. FIN. MGMT. TAP                        0.00       20.90        0.00         16.69       10.83         0.00      S           S
GH-PE-41150      1997   GOV'T OF GHANA                    VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTU                       0.00       30.00        0.00         23.74       -2.23         0.00       S          HS
GH-PE-949       1998   GOVERNMENT                         HEALTH SCTR SUPPORT                        0.00       35.00        0.00         30.70        5.40         0.00      HS          S
GH-PE-946        1998   GOVT OF GHANA                     NAT.RES.MANAGEMENT                         0.00        9.30        0.00          9.36        3.03         0.00      S           S
GH-PE-970       1999   GOV. OF GHANA                      TRADE GATEWAY & INV.                       0.00       50.50        0.00         48.62          .13        0.00      S           S
Total                                                                                                0.00   1,014.06         2.23        474.51      213.34        29.82
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  508.76             2,639.85            3,148.61
of which has been repaid:                    0.00              247.61               247.61
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                1,011.83             2,281.31            3,293.14
Amount sold                                         0.00                 .38                  .38
Of which repaid              :                  0.00                  .38                  .38
Total Undisbursed                :               474.51                16.07              490.58
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP) , a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU=
highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Annex F
Page 2 of 2
Ghana
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Mar-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval            Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1988/89/91/93         Bogosu                 6.48    1.72    5.35   13.44    6.48    1.72    5.35   13.44
1989/91/93            Cont Acceptances       0.00     .88    0.00    0.00    0.00     .88    0.00    0.00
1989/92               Wahome Steel             .87    .44    0.00    0.00     .87     .44    0.00    0.00
1990                  AEF Alugan              .05    0.00    0.00    0.00    .05    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/91/96            GAGL                   4.50    2.55    8.11    0.00    4.50    2.55    8.11    0.00
1991                  AEF Packrite            .06    0.00    0.00    0.00    .06    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                  GHANAL                 0.00     .44    0.00    0.00    0.00     .44    0.00    0.00
1991/92               Hotel Inv. Ghana       1.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.63    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                  AEF BMK                  .92    0.00    0.00    0.00    .92    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                  AEF CFL                 .28    0.00    0.00    0.00    .28    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93               Ghana Leasing          2.01      .75    0.00    0.00    2.01    .75    0.00    0.00
1993                  AEFAfariwaa             .18    0.00    0.00    0.00    .18    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  AEF GHUMCO               .12    0.00    0.00    0.00    .12    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/96               ECOBANK                4.85    0.00    0.00    0.00    .75    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                  AEF Shangri-la          1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                  GHACEM                  .94    0.00    0.00    0.00    .94    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  AEF Dupaul Wood         .50    0.00    0.00    0.00    .50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  AEF Pako Bay           0.00      .05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  AEF Tacks Farms         .37    0.00    0.00    0.00    .37    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  AEFPTS                 0.00    0.00    .31    0.00    0.00    0.00      .31    0.00
1998                  AEF NCS                0.00    0.00     .67    0.00    0.00    0.00     .67    0.00
1998                  AEF Plantation          .50    0.00    0.00    0.00     .36    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  25.56    6.83   14.44   13.44   21.32    6.78   14.44   13.44
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1995                  AEF GHANA PACK          .36    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          .36    0.00    0.00    0.00



Annex G
Page 1 of 1
GHANA
SECOND ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
IMPACT INDICATORS
1998         2001
Domestic interest payments as % of total recurrent   30.1          16.0
expenditures
Expenditures is health and education as % of total   22.0          29.0
domestically financed expenditures
Road arrears as % of GDP                              0.8           --
Cocoa exports (thousand tons)                        382           434
Non-performing loans in banking system (% of total)   23            12
Private Investment as % of GDP                       11.6          14.8
Source: Govemment of Ghana and Bank estimates.



Annex H
Page 1 of 1
GHANA
SECOND ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
1.    Time Taken to Prepare the Credit              3 Months
2.    Identification Mission                        December 1-13, 1998
3.    Concept Review Meeting                        February 9, 1999
4.    ROC Review Meeting                            April 1, 1999
5.    Appraisal/Negotiations                        April 8-21, 1999
6.    Board Presentation                            May 27, 1999
7.    Planned Effectiveness Date                    July 1, 1999
8.    Closing Date of Project                       June 30, 2001



Annex I
In cam of reply the                                                                     A       
mcnberGd dame of thsU                                                MINISTRY OF FINANCE
W15eZFho,dd 9be quoted~P. 0. BOX N 40
OurRef.  ...........                                                         ACCRA.
Your Ref No___.                                                    April 29, 1999
Tel. No ..... . . . . .........    ZBSPU3LIC OP QHANA.......................... 19...
MR. JEAN-LOUIS SARBIB
VICE PRESIDENT
AFRICA REGION
WORLD BANK
WASHINGTON, D.C.
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Sarbib,
GHANA: SECOND ECONOMIC REFORM POLICY OPERATION
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
INTRODUCTION
1. The Government of Ghana requests the International Development Association (IDA)
to provide a credit in the sum of US$180 million in support of the on-going economic
reform programme.
2. The central objective of the Government's macroeconomic policy for 1999 is to
accelerate overall growth of the economy, achieve a single digit rate of inflation, and
improve the external payments position of the country. The proposed credit follows
up on the one-tranche Economic Reform Support Operation (ERSO) which was
approved by the Board in June 1998.
3. The policy measures stated in this letter are outlined in the Government's Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) for 1999-2001 that was prepared in collaboration with the
staff of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). A copy is
attached for your information. I confirm that the PFP is an accurate reflection of the
Government's economic and social policies and this letter presents the policies and
programmes to be supported by this credit.
4. Recent Economic Developments
Provisional estimates indicate that the overall Gross Domestic Product (GDP) rose by
4.6 percent in 1998, higher than the 1997 rate of 4.2 percent. The energy crisis had a
limited adverse impact on the economy because the agricultural sector with the
largest share in GDP was virtually unaffected by the crisis. Moreover, measures were
taken to insulate the bulk of industry and services from the power outages. Growth in
output was largely obtained from a good cocoa crop and increased production level in
the mining sector. On the expenditure side, the growth was export led. The inflation
rate continued its downward trend from 20.8 percent at the end of 1997 to 13.7



percent at the end of March 1999. Food prices that rose rapidly in the first quarter of
1998 subsequently continued to decline through March with improved domestic
harvests. Non-food prices were relatively stable after the first half of the year.
Fiscal Developments
5. Provisional figures show that the overall budget deficit on a commitment basis,
dropped from 9.9 percent of GDP in 1997 to 8.1 percent in 1998. The domestic
primary balance also improved to 3.6 percent of GDP from 3.2 percent in 1997. Total
expenditure remained largely unchanged in 1998 though recurrent expenditure
increased significantly because of an increase in domestic interest payments on
treasury bills. Expenditures for health and education were on target relative to GDP,
and above their 1997 ratios. Total revenues and grants were 20.5 percent of GDP in
1998, two percentage points higher than in 1997. The overall cash deficit was
financed predominantly from domestic sources.
Monetary Developments
6. The Bank of Ghana tightened monetary policy considerably in 1998, containing the
growth rate of reserve money to 16.7 percent in 1998 from 33.4 percent in 1997. The
close collaboration between the Central Bank and the Government resulted in a
slower growth in broad money of 17.7 percent for the year. Improvements in the
macroeconomic fundamentals led to a decline in both the nominal and real interest
rates. Consequently, the Bank of Ghara reduced its rediscount rate from 42 percent
to 37 percent in November 1998 and then to 27 percent in March 1999. Credit to the
private sector expanded by 31.3 percent in 1998.
External sector
7. The year witnessed strong export growth led by a good cocoa crop. Cocoa production
for 1997-98 crop year was 409,000 metric tonnes, up from 323,000 metric tonnes in
the 1996-97 crop year. This was due primarily to favourable weather, good
husbandry practices and incentives extended to farmers by the Government. Cocoa
export receipt also benefited from a higher- than-expected average price on the world
market. Considerable increases in volume of export were also recorded in gold that
saw an increase of 18.8 percent over the export volume of the previous year. On the
other hand, however, timber exports declined due primarily to an intemational price
shock.
8. The total value of imports for 1998 showed a 4.0 percent increase over that of 1997
resulting in a trade deficit that was equivalent to 5.2 percent of GDP, compared to 9.3
percent of GDP in 1997. The current account, including official transfers, recorded a
deficit equivalent to 3.7 percent of GDP. On the other hand, the capital account
showed a net inflow of $371.5 million. These inflows were more than enough to
finance the current account deficit, resulting in an overall balance of payments surplus
of $99.4 million. The exchange rate of the cedi stabilised by recording a decline of
2



4.1 percent in 1998 against the US dollar compared to a depreciation of 22.7 percent
in the previous year.
Structural Reforms
9. The Govermnent has made considerable progress in this area. Cocoa sector reformns
are on track and producer's share of the fob price was increased to 56 percent during
the 1998-99 crop season. Private licensed buying companies currently purchase
about 40 percent of the crop. A medium term strategy to foster development of the
cocoa sector has been formulated after broad consultation with stakeholders. The
Public Utilities Regulatory Commission (PURC) has been set up as an independent
body to regulate tariffs on utilities to the benefit of both consumers and producers.
As a first step, the Commission effected new tariffs amounting to 200 percent
increase in the rates for electricity consumption to reduce the operating losses of the
Electricity Company of Ghana. A new wage policy for the public sector has also
been approved to take effect from January 1, 1999.
OUTLOOK FOR 1999-2000
Macroeconomic Objectives
10. For the period 1999-2001, the Government's macroeconomic targets include
achieving an average GDP growth rate of 5.8 percent and an end of period inflation
rate of 5 percent. For 1999, a real GDP growth rate of 5.5 percent and an end-of-
period inflation rate of 9.5 percent have been targeted. Additionally, an overall
budget deficit equivalent to 5.3 percent of GDP and a primary budget surplus
equivalent to 3.5 percent of GDP are envisaged.
11. The central objective of the macroeconomic policy for 1999 is to accelerate the
overall economic growth and to reduce inflation to a single digit to be achieved
through a further tightening of fiscal and monetary policies. Growth in broad money
is expected to be 15 percent in 1999. The Open Market Operations by the Bank of
Ghana will be stepped up to mop-up excess liquidity in the economy, and at the same
time, BOG and the newly established Securities Regulatory Commission (SRC) will
implement policies to deepen secondary market activity in the money market. The
Govenment will also continue to pursue a flexible exchange rate policy so to provide
incentives for exporters and enhance Ghana's competitiveness on the international
market.
Key Structural Reforms
Fiscal Policy:
12. VAT
Parliament passed the VAT Act for its re-introduction on December 30, 1998. The
tax was successfully re-introduced at the rate of 10 percent to replace the sales and
service taxes. The returns for January and February received by the VAT Service
were encouraging. The performance of this tax is being monitored and measures will
3



be taken to improve the yield if it should be necessary. In addition, the first phase of
the Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) project was successfully introduced in
1998. This phase concentrated on the VAT registered traders. As of end March
1999, 13,000 traders who had then applied for registration under VAT have been
issued with their TINs. The registration scheme is to be extended to cover the
remaining categories of taxpayers from May 1St 1999. With the passing of the
Revenue Agencies (Governing) Board Act, 1998 (t-.ct 558), a new board has been set
up to co-ordinate the activities of all the tax collection agencies. This is to eliminate
duplication of work and ensure maximum efficiency in the tax collection effort.
Under the auspices of this Board, the successes achieved through the integrated tax
audits carried out in 1998 will be augrnented.
13. MTEF
In keeping with the commitment to improve financial management in the public
sector, the Government in 1999, adopted the Medium Term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF) as its approach to budget preparation. The framework hinges on three year
rolling budgets as against the annual budgets of the past.
14. To achieve the policy objective of allocating resources most efficiently, the
Government in 1998 developed budget guidelines that directed all ministries,
departments and agencies (MDAs) to prepare strategic plans as the basis for costing
activities as inputs for the preparation of the 1999 budget. These steps have ensured
that MDA programmes and policies are directly related to national priorities. Outlays
on social services, for example, are targeted to rise from 30.7 percent of total
discretionary expenditure in 1999 to 31.8 percent in 2001. The process is also
designed to allow for trade-offs of programmes and resources among MDAs over the
three-year period. In implementing this new approach to budgeting, the Government
exceeded its initial target of piloting the method in only three ministries, by
successfully carrying it out for all MDAs.
15. As part of a follow up to improve the system, the programme for the next three years
(1999 - 2001) will seek to develop performance indicators and a monitoring
mechanism as well as introducing a benchmarking system to aid the budget
implementation process.  These will ensure not only the measurement of
performance, but also facilitate the enforcement of compliance in resource use
through performance auditing. Automation of the budget preparation system to
ensure that it fits into the Budget and Public Expenditure Managemenit System
computerization programme is another major activity planned for the period. A
macroeconomic framework model is being designed under Public Financial
Management Reform Programme to be incorporated into the MTEF. Efforts will also
be made to link the budget reforms to other public sector reforms such as Civil
Service Performance Improvement Programme, National Institutional Renewal
Programme and the decentralization programme in an effort to improve public sector
management in general.
4



16.   Tariff Reform
The trade and tariff system in Ghana has undergone substantial changes since the
launching of the Economic Recovery Programme (ERP) in 1983 and the
implementation of several liberalization programmes through the mid 1990's. The
tariff system had three rates namely, 0, 10 and 25 percent. In 1998, a 5 percent rate
was added to facilitate shifting zero-rated goods to a positive rate and the hitherto
17.5 percent special tax has been abolished.  The index of aggregate trade
competitiveness for Ghana, according to the International Monetary Fund, is currently
in the moderate range.
17. A major problem in the tariff system in Ghana has been the large share of zero-rated
imports and exemptions. Reform of the tariff system aims at addressing the issue of
the widespread use of zero-rates, the problem with exemptions and the relatively high
top rate of 25 percent. In addition, the Government will embark on a comprehensive
study of the current tariff regime with the objective of increasing the effective duty
rates and reducing the top rate in harmony with the sub-region. The study will be
completed by end September 1999 and recommendations included in the budget for
the year 2000.
18. The objectives of the current tariff reforms are multi-facetted. The new Customs and
Excise (Duties and Other Taxes) Act, 1999, (Act 565), aims at the gradual upgrading
of some zero-rated items into positive rates. Consequently, the import duty rates on
specialty vehicles have been increased from zero to rates between 5 and 25 percent.
Secondly, the import duties on some items have been lowered to facilitate the
objective of harmonising tariffs in the ECOWAS sub-region and also for some health
reasons. Finally, top rates on selected items have been lowered to encourage the
importation of foreign technology and the rationalisation of tariffs in light of the
introduction of VAT
19. Road Arrears
To resolve the problem of road arrears, the Government has decided to terminate in
an orderly fashion seven of the eight road contracts that account for 70 percent of the
total arrears and the work left to be done. In connection, a team has been formed to
inspect the affected projects. This vvill enable the Ministry of Roads and Transport to
determine the physical cut-off points of the projects and repackage them for donor
support. Future contracts will continue to be awarded on the basis of operi tendering
and where they have to be negotiated or sole-sourced because they are tied to donor
funds or concessionary facilities, they would be subjected to value for money
assessment. At the same time, Government will seek external funding for the
construction of major strategic roads. A consulting firm has been engaged to assist
the Attomey General, Ministries of Finance and Roads and Transport to negotiate
smooth and neat programme for the termination of the contracts with the affected
contractors.
20. The total outstanding arrears as of end December 1998 of 130 billion (excluding
accrued interest) will be eliminated by the end of the year 2000. As a first positive
5



step in this direction, an amount of 60 billion has been earmarked for payment in the
1999 financial year. This has been factored into the budget. The other 70 billion
will be accommodated in the budget for the year 2000.
Cocoa Sector Reform
21. Cocoa remains an important contributor to the Ghanaian economy. Its contribution to
the agricultural real GDP amounts to about 10 percent and the sector supports the
livelihood of about 800,000 farm families.
22. In April 1999, Cabinet approved a medium term strategy for the sector that was
developed through broad consultations with stakeholders in the sector.  The
objectives of the strategy are to ensure increased and sustainable production and
farmers incomes and the maintenance of quality. These are to be achieved through
effective intemal and extemal marketing, adequate incentives for farmers through
adjustments in the producer price, streamlining cocoa research and extension services,
and making the operations of the Ghana Cocoa Board (COCOBOD) more efficient.
To avoid duplication of effort and hence waste of resources, a pilot programme to
merge the extension services of both the Ministry of Agriculture and COCOBOD is
underway.  The Govermnent will take steps to complete the merger of both
institutions by end 1999, based on lessons from the pilot.
23. Highlights of the Cocoa Strategy include increasing cocoa production to about
500,000 metric tonnes by the year 2004/5 and to 700,000 metric tonnes by the year
2009/10 and sustaining it at that level. The Government has taken steps to deepen the
internal marketing of cocoa by giving equal assess to all Licensed Buying Companies
(LBCs) to COCOBOD warehouses and financing for crop purchases. In particular,
the COCOBOD has invited LBCs to inspect and indicate interest in the use of
COCOBOD's warehouses. The Government is also in the process of divesting the
state-owned Produce Buying Company that will be offered for sale by June 1999.
Moreover, all qualified LBCs, including the PBC, will be allowed to export 30
percent of their domestic purchase beginning with the 2000/1 crop year. The Quality
Control Division (QCD) of COCOBOD will be maintained as a public sector
institution, while price discounts on exportable cocoa to domestic processors will be
abolished at the beginning of the 1999/2000 crop year. Furthermore, the producer
price will be increased to 65 percent of the fo.b. price for the 1999/2000 season and
gradually to 70 percent by 2004/5. Finally, the tax on cocoa will be reduced from the
current level of 25.8 percent of f.o.b. to 15 percent by the year 2004/5. COCOBOD
will also be restructured to play a more regulatory and monitoring role and be the
main source of information on the industry.
24. The cocoa sector strategy will be publicly announced in early May 1999. To ensure
the successful implementation of the strategy, a secretariat will be established for a
period of two years, which will report directly to a steering committee made up of
stakeholders in the sector. The committee will among other things be responsible for
designing the necessary regulatory and organizational framework, coordinating
technical and financial support for reform implementation. The secretariat will also
6



provide information on the reform programme to stakeholders. The committee and
secretariat will be in place by end June 1999.
25. The Government intends to assess progress during the first three years of the reforms
with a view to moving toward a fully competitive system with an open entry.
Financial Sector Reform
Status of Banking System of Ghana
26. The banking system in Ghana consists of seventeen banks. This is composed of nine
commercial banks, four merchant banks and four development banks.
27. The system has undergone significant reform since the introduction of Financial
Sector Adjustment Programme (FINSAP) in the late 80's, as part of an overall
Economic Reform Programme (ERP) to correct the structural imbalances in the
economy. The problems of the banking system that necessitated the introduction of
FINSAP included too many interventions by Government in the business of the banks
such as directed credit ceilings and imposition of management personnel on the
financial institutions. Others were bad management practices and increased risk
relating to loans and foreign currency exposure. Hence, institutional reform measures
were initiated under FINSAP alongside with other measures such as the deregulation
of interest rates and bank charges, phased removal of credit and exchange controls,
liberalization of trade, market determination of exchange rates and enactment of new
laws to strengthen the financial system. The institutional reform measures adopted
included the reconstitution of bank boards, the engagement of turn-around
management consultants, staff retrenchments, branch rationalization and the
strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory framework. An important aspect of
the financial sector reform programme involved the conversion/ replacement of non-
performing assets of many of the commercial banks into Bank of Ghana bonds. It
was recognized that an efficient and responsive financial system with a robust
banking sector as its core, would improve financial intermediation considerably and
increase the flow of resources to their most productive uses, which was perceived as a
necessary condition for the success of the ERP.
28. On the average, the banking system's provision for bad and doubtful debts as a ratio
of gross credit stood at 16.7% as of the end of 1998. The ratio of non-performing
loans to gross credit was 17.2% at the same time. The overall profitability ratios of
the banks for 1998 were however significantly lower than the realized figures for
1997.
Measures to Strengthen the Banking System
29. During 1999, the Bank of Ghana will take measures to increase the soundness and
efficiency of the financial system as a whole. The Bank of Ghana will strengthen
both on-site and off-site surveillance procedures to ensure compliance with the capital
adequacy ratio and monitor trends in the net foreign exchange risk being taken by the
banks. The Bank of Ghana has lifted the freeze on new bank licensing. Amendments
will be introduced into the Bank of Ghana Law to increase its autonomy in the
formulation and implementation of monetary policy. During the year, the Banking
7



Law will also be amended to strengthen the Bank of Ghana's power to supervise the
financial system. Draft legislation will be presented to Parliament by end 1999. New
technology is being acquired to improve the efficiency of the payments system in
order to facilitate financial intermediation. The Bank of Ghana will off-load its
shares in Ghanaian banks by mid 2000.
30. Although most banks show signs of improved efficiency and performance in terms of
compliance with capital adequacy requirements, there are still some weak banks that
require action. All but three banks satisfied the minimum capital adequacy ratio of
6% as of the end December 1998. Banks that do not meet the legally required capital
adequacy ratio will have their licenses withdrawn by September of this year and will
be liquidated. In implementing this decision, due care will be taken to protect
depositors, to manage staff severance costs and to ensure an orderly and transparent
process.
31. The banking sector divestiture programme was active and vigorous during the period
1994-96 when a merger was implemented and two Initial Public Offers (IPOs) were
completed. Since that time, the search for strategic investors has slowed the pace of
the programme. Expressions of interests from prospective strategic investors have,
however, continued to be active.
32. With regards to the Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB), the immediate focus of
activities will be to (i) establish a new management team; (ii) re-launch the search for
a strategic investor; and (iii) continue off-loading shares on the Ghana Stock
Exchange. The new CEO will be offered an employment contract by June 30th,
1999. The Government is to engage an investment advisor by end June 1999 to
undertake the strategic investor search, in order to issue the investment memorandum
by end October 1999. The evaluation of technical proposals should be completed by
the end of February 2000. This will enable the Government to open financial
proposals and to invite the selected bidder for negotiations in early 2000. By this
time, the Government would have placed the remaining shares on the Ghana Stock
Exchange.
33. The National Investment Bank (NIB) divestiture has not followed the fast track vision
envisaged at the start of the programme in 1995. The exercise is in its third round of
discussions and negotiations.  Several prospective strategic investors have been
identified in the current round and it is expected that a deal will be completed within
the next six months. In the event that a firm offer has not been received and is not
being negotiated by June 30'h 1999, the Government will re-launch the search for a
strategic investor with the assistance of a sales advisor.  To prevent a further
deterioration of NIB, a memorandum of understanding (MOU) has been signed with
the Bank of Ghana and the Ministry of Finance.
34. With respect to Agricultural Development Bank (ADB), the Government will
undertake a comprehensive study of agricultural and rural finance. It will prepare a
strategic plan for the development of additional sources of credit to the agricultural
sector and options for the role, strategy, governance and ownership of ADB to be
completed by June 2000.
8



Energy Sector Reform
35. Building on the new regulatory framework embodying the Public Utilities Regulatory
Commission (Act 538 of 1997) and the Energy Comrnission (Act 541 of 1997),
reforms in this sector will remain important to attract private participation in both
petroleum and power. To that end, the Government has published a Statement of
Power Sector Development Policy to outline the remaining reform agenda for public
dissemination and discussion with stakeholders in 1999. In light of the vulnerability
to fluctuations in hydroelectric power supply that were highlighted by the 1998
"energy crisis", the Government is preparing a Transitional Plan for Wholesale Power
Supply (1999-2001). This plan will indicate a least cost strategy for increasing
thermal power supply to complement the projected availability of hydropower until
the delivery of natural gas from Nigeria via the proposed West Africa Gas Pipeline
Project. Before end-December 1999, the Government will present a draft legislative
instrument for Parliamentary consideration and approval, to establish the Electricity
Regulations (Operation of the National Interconnected System), under which the
Electricity Transmission Unit will operate the National Interconnected System,
dispatch the "Power Pool", and administer the wholesale power supply market.
36. The existing power utilities will complete the implementation of the financial
recovery plans approved by the Government to deal with past liabilities and to restore
their creditworthiness.  The VRA  is in the process of privatising its thermal
generation assets and will complete the operational separation of its Electricity
Transmission Utility from its other business units by December 1999. The ECG and
the Northem Electrification Department of VRA (NED) are being restructured into a
single company with strategic business units to manage the distribution zones. The
company will issue invitations for private strategic partners to form joint venture
companies to acquire licenses to run electricity distribution services in each zone by
June 2000. To this end, a financial advisor will be appointed by December 1999 to
assist in this process.
37. The Public Utilities Regulatory Commission (PURC) was established to ensure
transparency in the setting and adjustment of tariffs for public utilities, including
those involved in the provision of electricity supply services. Since it became
operational in November 1997, the PURC has reviewed electricity tariffs on two
occasions in response to proposals submitted by the power utility companies. The
first review was carried out between November 1997 and January 1998 with new
tariffs becoming effective in February 1998. The second review resufted in the
approval of new tariffs effective from September 1998 to December 1999.
38. The Government's policy is to base electricity tariffs on the marginal economic cost
of supply. Within this policy framework, the PURC will finalize the "Guidelines for
Fixing Rates for Electricity Services" to provide for greater transparency in setting
electricity tariffs by September 1999. The guidelines will form the basis of electricity
pricing from the year 2000 and beyond. In the mid-term, the PURC will rationalize
the existing tariff structure and implement appropriate adjustments in rate levels to
reflect the economic cost of electricity supply in the country. The PURC is also
currently drafting a number of Legislative Instruments to give effect to its mandate of
9



ensuring consumer protection and better quality of service from electricity utility
companies.
39. On petroleum, the financial restructuring of the Tema Oil Refinery (TOR) Ltd. will be
completed by June 1999 to enable the Government to offer the company for sale
before end-December 1999.  The Government will prepare and present for
consideration and approval of the Parliament before end-December 1999, the
Petroleum Regulations - Marketing of Petroleum Products to provide the framework
for, inter alia, phasing out the practice of setting maximum retail margins for the
operations of the oil marketing companies (OMCs).
Divestiture
40. There is the renewed commitment to complete the current divestiture programme by
December 2001. Institutional arrangements will be re-focussed to assign more
resources and attention to larger and more significant privatization, for example the
Electricity Company of Ghana, the Ghana Railways Corporation and the remaining
state owned banks. The Government is committed to streamlining the bidding
procedures to improve transparency of the process and significantly increase the
speed of decision making. The heart of this strategy is to put all qualification issues
up-front and award tenders based on one variable that is price.
41. Small and medium enterprises will be disposed of more rapidly through clear
procedures that do not require senior level decision making. The Government will
also renew its emphasis on the support for strengthening the regulatory process,
notably in the energy, transport and telecommunications sectors.
Conclusion
42. The reform measures described above are fully consistent with the Government's
commitment to develop a dynamic and efficient public sector to support a sustainable
private sector-led economic development. I therefore hope that IDA will approve the
requested credit amount to support this programme.
196
KWAME EPRAH
STER OF FINAN E
10



Annex J
GHANA
Policy Framework Paper, 1999-2001
Prepared by the Ghanaian authorities in collaboration
with the staffs of the Itnternational Monetary Fund and the World Bank
April 8, 1999
I. Introduction
1. In its document "Ghana-Vision 2020", the government set forth a development strategy
aimed at creating a stable macroeconomic environment and implementing a decisive structural
transformation to foster strong economic growth and a broad-based improvement of living
standards.' The strategy envisages steps to achieve balanced social and regional development,
and encourage private sector activity and export orientation. This policy framework paper
focuses on the policies for 1999-2001 in support of which the authorities are requesting from
the RMF a new three-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) arrangement for the
period 1999-2001. Also, in support of this strategy, the World Bank is expected to approve a
second Economic Reform Support Operation (ERSO II) in 1999 to deepen the reforms that are
being carried out under the first ERSO approved in June 1998.
II. RECENT ECONOMIC TRENDS
2. Growth and prices. After a period of large economic imbalances in the early 1990s, Ghana's
macroeconomic performance has improved considerably since 1997 as budgetary discipline has
been restored and current account deficits contained. Real GDP growth increased from 4.2
percent in 1997 to 4.6 percent in 1998, in spite of energy shortages early in the year. A good
cocoa crop and higher production in the mining sector were key sources of output growth. The
inflation rate declined from 21 percent at the end of 1997 to less than 16 percent at the end of
1998.
3.  Fiscal. The overall budget deficit on a commitment basis dropped from 9.9 percent of GDP
in 1997 to 8.1 percent in 1998, while the domestic primary surplus improved from 3.2 percent
of GDP to 3.6 percent over the same period. These results were driven mainly by higher total
revenue and grants, as total expenditure remained unchanged as a percent of GDP. Recurrent
expenditure rose, mostly as a result of increased domestic interest payments. Arrears to
contractors in the road sector reemerged, reflecting a continued difficulty in limiting road
construction to the amount budgeted. Expenditures for health and education as a percentage of
'RepubhiC of Ghana, "Ghana-Vision 2020 (The First Step 1996-2000)", AcCra; January 6, 1995.



-2-
GDP were above the 1997 levels.
4. A medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) was adopted for the first time in the
preparation of the 1999 budget for all ministries, and, in late-December 1998, a value-added tax
was successfully reintroduced at a rate of 10 percent. A central revenue board was appointed to
oversee all tax agencies with a view to ensuring better coordination among them.
5. Money and credit. The Bank of Ghana tightened monetary policy considerably reducing
the growth rate of reserve money from 33 percent during 1997 to 17 percent during 1998. As
a result, broad money expansion decelerated to 18 percent in 1998. The velocity of circulation
fell in response to a decline in the inflation rate. Treasury bill rates remained high, at about
40 percent, until the third quarter of 1998 when improved macroeconomic performance brought
about a noticeable decline in nominal and real interest rates. The decline in interest rates and
inflationary expectations allowed the central bank to reduce its rediscount rate to 37 percent in
November 1998, and to 32 percent in January 1999. Credit to the private sector expanded by 31
percent during 1998, well in excess of nominal GDP.
6. External sector. Strong export growth resumed in 1998 propelled by a good cocoa crop.
Import growth in value terms slowed as petroleum prices declined markedly. The current
account deficit, including grants, is estimated to have been 31/2percent of GDP, over
5 percentage points lower than 1997. The significant improvement in the current account
performance allowed an increase of US$100 million in the net foreign assets of the Bank of
Ghana, despite some deceleration in official capital inflows and larger amortization of external
public debt during 1998. The external public debt service declined from 32 percent of exports
of goods and non-factor services in 1997 to 28 percent in 1998. The cedi depreciated by about
4.3 percent against the U.S. dollar during 1998, an appreciation of 4.1 percent in real effective
terms.
7.  Structural reforms. The government is making progress in implementing key structural
reforms, albeit with some delays to ensure stakeholders' support. Cocoa sector reforms continue
to move ahead: the producer's share in the f.o.b. price of cocoa was increased to 56 percent for
the 1998/99 crop season, and private-licensed buying companies now purchase 40-50 percent
of the cocoa crop. However, the sale of the Produce Buying Company (PBC) was delayed as
experts were consulted over the details of the privatization. A medium-term strategy to foster
development in the cocoa sector was adopted by the cabinet in March 1999. In the energy sector,
the Public Utilities Regulatory Commission (PURC), established in late 1997 to set tariffs on
an autonomous basis, raised significantly electricity and water tariffs in 1998, so as to eliminate
operating losses in these sectors reform. Ex-depot wholesale petroleum prices were introduced,
based on a automatic formula for adjusting them in line with petroleum import price changes.
The offer for sale of the Ghana Oil Company took place in October, while that of the Tema Oil
Refinery was delayed because of ongoing rehabilitation and financial restructuring. A new
public sector wage policy, based on a 22-level grade structure, will be implemented from
January 1, 1999.



- 3 -
III. OBJECTIVES, STRATEGIES AND POLICIES FOR 1999-2001
A. Medium-Term Framework: Objectives and Strategies
8.  Macroeconomic framework and strategy. The strategy for the next three years, while
continuing to address macroeconomic imbalances, will focus on removing structural bottlenecks
and creating an environment for sustained and balanced growth. The government expects to
reduce inflation to single digit levels, increase public savings, contain the current account deficit,
and achieve higher efficiency in the economy. The government intends to make private
investment an engine of growth by creating a supportive environment, in particular by
encouraging private sector marketing and exporting of cocoa, by increasing efficiency in the
financial sector, and by placing a greater emphasis on social and poverty alleviation issues and
the improvement of basic infrastructure.
9.  Output growth is projected to accelerate to 51/2 percent in 1999 and increase to 6 percent
in each of the two succeeding years, allowing output per capita to increase by over 21/2 percent
on average in the next three years. The share of private investment in GDP is expected to rise
by about 3 percentage points, as private sector activity is boosted by rising confidence levels and
expanding business opportunities, such as in nontraditional exports. Over the medium term,
foreign aid is projected to decline, but it is expected to remain at levels consistent with the
program's import and growth targets.
10. The main elements of the macroeconomic program for the next three years are (a) a sound
fiscal policy that will maintain the domestic primary balance above 31/2 percent of GDP,
allowing the net domestic borrowing of the government to be more than halved with respect to
I998 while gradually reducing the stock of domestic debt to 20 percent of GDP by 2001;
(b) moderate growth of monetary aggregates to ensure that inflation drops to single-digit levels
in 1999 and stabilizes at about 5 percent thereafter; and (c) an increase in gross international
reserves to 3 months of imports at the end of 2001.
11. The program will imply decisive structural reforms, in particular the strategy for the next
three years will focus on: (a) enhancing competition in the cocoa sector by allowing private
agents to export cocoa, while ensuring equal access to crop financing and warehousing; (b)
increasing efficiency in the banking sector by restructuring distressed banks, strengthening
supervision, and introducing improved legislation both for the banking system and the central
bank; and (c) continuing the divestiture of public enterprises. In addition, the government will
continue to increase the efficiency of the public sector by restructuring subvented agencies and
central management agencies and decentralizing operations to local levels. The government will
take steps to increase the effectiveness of resources directed to education and health. A national
poverty reduction strategy will be prepared.



- 4 -
B. Financial Policies
12. Taxes. The government hopes to increase the revenue-to-GDP ratio to 19 percent over the
medium term. In particular, the government will monitor the performance of the recently
reintroduced value-added tax (VAT) and will, if necessary, adjust the VAT rate. Efforts will also
be made to cut back exemptions and reduce the top tariff rate, so as to remove distortions and
improve equity. The government will also strengthen tax administration and improve collection
procedures and audit practices.
13. Expenditure. Total expenditure will be lowered by about 4 percent of GDP from 1998 to
2001. Prudent wage policies, together with a decline in domestic interest payments as a result
of smaller borrowing requirements and domestic interest rates will allow for the reduction in
expenditures. Domestic- and foreign-financed capital expenditures are projected to be
maintained broadly at current levels. The government expects a reduction in the overall balance
(on a commitment basis) of about 21/2 percentage points of GDP in 1999.
14. Monetary policy. The main objective of monetary policy is to achieve single-digit inflation
in 1999 and to bring the inflation rate in line with that of partner countries in the medium term.
To this end, the Bank of Ghana intends to limit broad money growth in line with the projected
growth in nominal GDP. Reserve money is targeted to increase I1 1/2 percent in 1999 and about
10 percent in the following years through the use of indirect monetary policy instruments,
including a more extensive use of purchasing agreements.
15. The Bank of Ghana will keep domestic and foreign exchange market developments under
close review and will adjust policies as needed. It will continue to take steps to deepen its
domestic and foreign exchange markets and has requested Fund assistance in this area.
16. External sector. The current account deficit, including official transfers, is expected to
gradually narrow and to reach about 21/2 percent of GDP by 2001, an improvement of
1 percentage point with respect to 1998. Gross international reserves are targeted to improve
steadily to 3 months of imports in 2001.
17. The government will continue to review the tariff structure to enhance the external
competitiveness of the local industry, to harmonize tariff rates with regional practices, and to
remove distortions. While taking steps to curtail exemptions, the government will gradually
reduce the average tariff ratio over the next three years to less than 10 percent.
18. Debt sustainability analysis. High levels of nonconcessional borrowing in the mid-1990s
caused a marked increase in the debt burden. However, since then the government has placed
strict limits on contracting and guaranteeing of nonconcessional borrowing. As a result, net
present value of debt relative to exports, which stood at 198 percent at the end of 1998, is
projected to fall steadily through 2001. The nominal debt stock is projected to decline to about
71 percent of GDP by 2001 from about 79 percent at the end of 1998. Given the favorable



-5 -
outlook for exports, combined with the largely concessional nature of Ghana's external debt,
debt service is projected to decline to below 20 percent of exports of goods and nonfactor
services by the year 2001 from 28 percent in 1998, thus making Ghana's external debt burden
sustainable, without recourse to existing debt relief mechanisms, in the absence of major
external shocks.
C. Structural and Social Policies
Attaining sustainable growth
19. Agriculture. Consistent with the critical role of agriculture in the economy, the government
has formulated an Accelerated Agricultural Growth Strategy (AAGS) designed to create an
environment that will enable the private sector to boost agricultural production, agro-processing
and exports, and to increase the agriculture sector's growth from the current rate of 3-4 percent
to 5-6 percent. To this end, institutional reforms and investment programs will be carried out
to (i) improve access to markets and promote the production and export of selected
commodities; (ii) facilitate access to agricultural technology; (iii) increase access to rural
finance; (iv) improve rural infrastructure and utilities; and (v) enhance human resources and
build institutional capacity. The main instrument for implementing the AAGS will be the
Agricultural Services Sector Investment Program (AGSSIP). This program will be financed by
the government and a pool of donor funds. The program is expected to be launched in mid-2000.
20. Cocoa reforms. In order to adapt to a rapidly changing market environment, the
government is reassessing its medium-term strategy for the cocoa sector. In September 1998,
a task force with a sector wide representation of stakeholders prepared a report that was
discussed in a national workshop in January 1999. On the basis of these discussions the
government has formulated a medium-term cocoa sector strategy, to take effect in the 1999/2000
crop season.
21. The objective of the cocoa strategy is to ensure better performance of the industry and to
increase farmers' income. Its highlights include: (i) increasing producer prices to at least
60 percent of the f.o.b. price for the 1999/2000 season and by at least 2 percentage points in each
of the next two years; (ii) reducing the tax on cocoa from the current level of 26 percent of the
f.o.b. price; (iii) allowing qualified licensed buying companies (LBCs), including the Produce
Buying Company (PBC), to export 30 percent of their domestic purchases, starting with the
2000/01 crop; (iv) giving LBCs equal access to Cocoa Marketing Board (Cocobod) warehouses
and crop financing; and (v) abolishing price discounts on exportable cocoa to domestic
processors. As a result, cocoa production is expected to reach 500,000 tons by 2004/05.
Cocobod, the cocoa marketing board, will have a regulatory role and will continue to reduce its
share of the fo.b. price. The extension services of the Cocobod and the Ministry of Agriculture
will be unified. The Quality Control Division (QCD) will remain a public sector institution. The
PBC will be outsourced for divestiture before end-March 1999 and will be offered for sale by
end-June 1999.



- 6 -
22. The government believes that this strategy will best serve the interests of the country during
the next three years. The authorities will assess progress during the first phase of reforms with
a view to moving toward a fully competitive system with open entry.
23. Bank restructuring. The banking system in Ghana is now dominated by private banks,
though the 5 majority-public-owned banks still control a third of the deposits. While most banks
are sound, a few are not in compliance with the capital adequacy requirements. 2Therefore, the
government will take immediate steps to restructure weak banks and divest public shareholding
in commercial banks. To ensure the efficiency and soundness of the financial system, the Bank
of Ghana will strengthen both on-site and off-site supervision procedures, ensure compliance
with the capital adequacy ratio, and monitor foreign exchange exposure. Both the central bank
law and the banking law will be reviewed in line with best international practices. The Bank
of Ghana also intends to strengthen its supervisory practices and bring prudential regulations in
line with the Basle Core principles. The Bank of Ghana will streamline regulations for entry and
exit and has lifted the freeze on applications for banking licenses, but will continue to assess
applicants by strict professional and financial standards.
24. Divestiture program. In 1998, the government moved to a new phase of the divestiture
process covering major enterprises in the transport, energy, and banking sectors. The overall
divestiture program for 1999/2000 covers about 80 companies. The government intends to
conduct a comprehensive review in April 1999 of the divestiture process and program. On this
basis, it will set a target for program completion and take necessary steps to achieve it. An
evaluation of the outsourcing program will be a key input into this overall review. In the
meantime, the government will endeavor to solve the problem of the outstanding liabilities of
some firns, the sale of which is constrained by end-of-service benefits and substantial customer
claims. It will also seek to attract more investor interest by enhancing the quality of sale advisors
and by improving disclosure of information on the program. In this respect, the government will
reduce the publication lag of the annual financial reports of the Divestiture Implementation
Committee (DIC), as well as complete and disseminate a detailed impact assessment of the
divestiture program.
Rationalizing government operations
25. Public sector management reform. The government has begun to implement a far-
reaching public sector reform program to be carried out over the next decade. The main
objectives of the program are to reform central government agencies and to rationalize
175 subvented agencies, which employ about 400,000 staff. In this context, a pilot program to
commercialize, restructure, or close down at least 17 subvented agencies will be completed by
the end of the year 2001; enabling legislation will be presented to parliament in 1999. The
2For a review of the soundness of the banking system in Ghana, see "Ghana: Banking Sector Issues" m
SM198/255 (11/18/98)



-7 -
Ministry of Finance, the Public Service Commission, and the National Development Planning
Commission will be restructured in the next two years. The exercise will be extended to include
the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development, the State Enterprise Commission,
and the Office of the Head of the Civil Service by end-200 1. Moreover, the government intends
to improve and streamline policy. design and the implementation. To this end, the government
drew a pilot public/private partnership program to increase private sector participation in
activities now being performed by central government and subvented agencies.
26. New wage structure. A Civil Service Performance Improvement Program (CSPIP) has
been established and has made progress in defining performance targets in some ministries.
Further work is planned to apply it throughout the central government. The government has
adopted a new wage structure for public servants. In November 1998, a Central Management
Board was constituted to oversee the introduction of a uniform salary and grading structure for
the public service. The first phase, which involved regrading and reclassification of the entire
public service, is complete. Negotiations on the implementation of the new salary structure are
ongoing, and the government intends to conclude them as soon as possible.
27. Expenditure management systems. There has been substantial progress on the
government's Public Financial Management Reform Program initiated in 1996. A medium-term
expenditure framework was adopted as the basis for preparing the 1999 budget and will continue
to be used in the future. The exercise covered all ministries departments and agencies rather than
the three priority sectors that were originally targeted. For the first time, all government
resources, including external financing, have been accounted for in the budget preparation
guidelines and all personnel expenses, including allowances, have been consolidated. Line
ministries and agencies have based their expenditure plans on operational targets, which will
facilitate the ex post assessment of performance. A new accounting framework has been adopted
that allows closer monitoring of expenditures. The government has commissioned the
development of a computer-based Budget and Public Expenditure Management System
(BPEMS), to be fully operational by end-2000. The new rules and the BPEMS will improve
expenditure control, and cash and debt management.
28. Decentralization. In order to strengthen institutional development and capacity building,
a bill is to be presented to parliament in mid-1999 to create a separate local government service
and facilitate human resource development in the districts. District assemblies will be
encouraged to intensify their revenue collection efforts and to improve their capacity to manage
expenditures. A minimum 5 percent of total tax revenue will continue to be allocated to the
District Assemblies Common Fund for development expenditures. In addition, the government
has approved the decentralization of 23 line departments to districts.
Strengthening infrastructure
29. The government is pursuing a strategy to improve the delivery of infrastructure services
through increased private sector participation and improved pricing and cost recovery.



- 8 -
Divestiture programs are under way in energy, water, and transportation.
30. Electricity. A new regulatory framework embodying the PURC (Act 538 of 1997) and the
Energy Commission (Act 541 of 1997) has been set up to attract private sector participation in
power and petroleum products. In. light of the vulnerabilities in power supply highlighted by the
1998 energy shortages, the government is preparing a "Statement of Power Sector Development
Policy", which will outline the remaining reform agenda for discussion with stakeholders in
1999. In parallel, the government is preparing a Transitional Power System Development Plan
(1999-2001). This plan will indicate a least-cost strategy for increasing thermal power supply
to complement the projected availability of hydropower until 2001, prior to the delivery of
natural gas from Nigeria via the proposed West Africa Gas Pipeline Project. Based on the
outcome of the Transitional Power System Development Plan (1999-2001) the government will
present for parliamentary consideration and approval before end-December 1999, the Electricity
Regulations-Operation of the National Interconnected System, and complete the operational
separation of the electricity transmission utility (National Grid Company, Ltd.) from other
activities of the Volta River Authority (VRA). The VRA will divest its thermal power
generation assets, and the Electricity Company of Ghana (ECG) is being restructured and will
be offered for sale by end-I 999.
3 1. The existing power utilities will complete the implementation of the financial recovery
plans approved by the government to deal with past liabilities and to restore their
creditworthiness. Furthermore, the PURC will publish its "Guidelines for Fixing Rates for
Electricity Services" to achieve greater transparency in setting electricity tariffs.
32. Petroleum. The financial restructuring of the Tema Oil Refinery (TOR) Ltd. will be
completed by June 1999, enabling the government to offer the company for sale before end-
December 1999. The government will prepare and present for parliamentary consideration and
approval before end-December 1999, the Petroleum Regulations-Marketing of Petroleum
Products which will provide the framework for phasing out maximum retail margins.
33. Transportation. The government continues to work toward creating an efficient and
integrated transport network by focusing on the maintenance and rehabilitation of the road
network, on the rationalization of its capital investment program, and on the participation of the
private sector in railway, port, and air transport. While the Road Fund will continue to provide
adequate financing for routine maintenance, the management of the program will be
strengthened further. To this end, the government has initiated institutional capacity
development programs in the three road agencies. The government has been accumulating large
payment arrears to road contractors. To resolve the situation, the government has decided to
terminate a number of contracts, to scale down domestically-financed road projects, to revise
procedures for initiating projects, and to award contracts in line with World Bank procurement
rules.



- 9 -
34. The government aims to develop Ghana as a major regional hub and is preparing to
privatize some operations at the harbors and at Kotoka International Airport. To support its
policy of liberalized skies, a program of institutional reform is planned for the Ghana Civil
Aviation Authority as part of the World Bank-supported Gateway Project.
Improving natural resource manlagement
35. Urban development and land administration. The government is addressing the
infrastructural needs of urban centers throughout the country with special attention to land
delivery. Investments will be targeted toward municipalities that have not benefited from
previous assistance, while demand-driven allocations will be promoted. To this end, the
government efforts will focus on building the capacity for urban sector management throughout
the district assemblies and municipalities. It is widely recognized that weak title security and
insufficient information have been the main hindrances to the efficient allocation of available
land. The government recently commissioned a study on urban land administration, which
recommends a realignment of the numerous institutions that govern land delivery and the
establishment of a land information bank; it has finalized a draft national land policy.
36. Water and sewerage. In 1993, the government initiated a restructuring program aimed at
improving the supply of water and sewerage services and allowing the sector to reach financial
viability. The separation of responsibilities for urban and rural water, sanitation and sewage is
largely complete. The government is in the process of downsizing and converting the Ghana
Water and Sewerage Corporation (GWSC) into the Ghana Water Company (GWC), which will
lease the urban water supply network to private operators. Two lease packages, designed to
promote competition in urban water supply, will be opened for bids in October 1999. The
conversion of the GWSC, including a program of staff rationalization, is expected to be
completed by January 2000. The government has also initiated the transfer of all small
community systems to the district assemblies. These systems will be operated by the
communities, with management support from the Community Water and Sanitation Agency.
This transfer should be completed by end-2000. Finally, the government has established a
program of tariff increases to ensure the financial viability of the sector. The average water tariff
was raised by 140 percent in March 1998. The PURC is currently considering a second tariff
increase, which will be sufficient to cover operating costs of the private operators.
37. Environment. Ghana's most pressing environmental problems are deforestation from rapid
timber extraction and land degradation from inappropriate cultivation and mining practices. In
line with the National Environmental Action Plan the government has strengthened institutions
to address environmental issues. In 1997, the government enacted a Timber Resource
Management Act aimed at achieving a more sustainable rate of timber extraction and at fostering
replanting and reforestation. This act provides for the adoption of transparent procedures for
awarding timber rights and periodic increases in forest royalty rates; its regulations were recently
enacted. The government has begun to rationalize and strengthen the various forest and timber



- 10-
agencies. The government will review the current ban on log exports, with a view to finding
more efficient and less costly mechanisms of ensuring sustainable forest exploitation.
38. To arrest land degradation and preserve wildlife, the government will initiate a number of
collaborative pilot management schemes in the high forest and the savanna woodlands,
involving individual farmers and entrepreneurs, families, schoolchildren and communities. In
addition, the govemment has added the preservation of biodiversity to its list of main objectives
by initiating plans to strengthen the management of wildlife areas and to implement a new
National Biodiversity Strategy, including the demarcation of globally significant areas.
39. Fisheries and aquaculture. Ghana produces on average 400,000 tons of fish annually,
which sustain about 1.5 million people. Tuna processing generates important export earnings
and fish provides about 60 percent of the animal protein in the country. Marine demersal stocks
and small pelagic fishes suffer from overfishing and unsustainable fishing methods, while the
large pelagic species, especially tuna, are under exploited. The government intends to develop
fisheries in a sustainable manner by improving the institutional and legal framework for
proactive management of the fisheries. In particular, the government will promote private
investment in fisheries, particularly in tuna, and will encourage comanagement systems in
artisanal fisheries.
Investing in human capital
40. Education. The government's priorities in education, as spelled out in "Ghana Vision
2020" are: to achieve universal basic education and adult literacy, increase access to secondary
and tertiary education, and strengthen labor force skills through increased provision of technical
and vocational training. In line with these objectives, the government launched in 1996 a Basic
Education Sector Improvement Program, with the assistance of the World Bank and other
donors. Implementation of the program is, however, facing difficulties as teaching and learning
goals are not being achieved. The government intends to address these problems through a
number of actions to be adopted in close coordination with donors. These include the
preparation of plans with clearly established targets; re-allocating resources toward
disadvantaged groups; decentralizing management of education, and improving the capacity of
the Ministry of Education and the Ghana Education Service. In addition, it will seek to establish
partnerships with the private sector for the provision of basic education and adult literacy
programs. A textbook program which aims to provide, cost-effectively, a set of textbooks to all
children is also under way. To monitor improvements in the quality of basic education, the
government has targeted significant improvements in the pupils' achievements in the recently
introduced Performance Monitoring Test, Criterion Reference Tests, and the Basic Education
Certificate Examination. Gross enrollment ratios for 2001 have been targeted at 81.2 percent for
primary schools and 64.9 percent for junior secondary schools. The national net enrollment ratio
for girls in primary schools has been targeted at 48.5 percent in 2001. Expenditures in education
will increase from 3.8 percent of GDP in 1998 to 4.1 percent in 2001.



- 11 -
41. At the secondary level, the government's program aims to increase access to good-quality
senior secondary schools. The Ministry of Education's strategic plan for the next three years
targets an increase in transition rates from junior secondary schools to senior secondary schools.
Investments will be made in schools' facilities and teacher housing in rural areas and the
curriculum will be revised to emphasize science and math. Teachers will be given more
incentives to work in rural schools. Schools will be required to run at approximately full
enrollment, and under enrolled schools will eventually be closed. At the same time, the
management of secondary schools will be gradually decentralized with greater participation by
district assemblies and the communities. At the tertiary level, efforts are now being made to
increase budgetary allocations to that subsector. The government intends to address the problems
of the current student loan scheme, which is plagued by default, by redesigning a self-sustaining
revolving fund.
42. Health. The government's health sector reform program, which is based on the Medium
Term Health Strategy (MTHS) to achieve Vision 2020, aims at providing universal access to
basic health services, improving the quality and the efficiency of health services, and fostering
linkages with other sectors contributing to health. The main strategies to achieve sector
objectives include: (i) strengthening primary health services; (ii) improving the capacity for
policy development and analysis; resource allocation, performance monitoring and evaluation,
and regulation of service delivery and health professionals; (iii) strengthening national support
systems for human resources, logistics and supplies, financial management and health
information; and (iv) promoting private sector involvement in the delivery of health services.
43. The government has adopted a sector-wide approach to health that integrates government
and donor efforts to achieve defined goals and includes joint systems to monitor sector
performance. The overall per capita public expenditure on health (the equivalent of about
US$6 in 1997) is low even by sub-Saharan standards. It is recognized that increased funding for
health, along with a reallocation of resources to recurrent costs, is an absolute necessity. The
Health Sector Program, financed by the government, external aid, and private spending on
health, aims at increasing public per capita expenditures to the equivalent of US$9 in the
medium term.
44. The government recognizes the need to step up efforts, including providing additional
financial resources, to stop the spread of AIDS among the population. The present trends, which
indicate that about 600,000 Ghanaian adults will be H1V infected by the year 2000, pose serious
social and economic risks and a place heavy burden on the health sector.
Poverty
45. Poverty remains a concern in Ghana. It is more prevalent in rural areas, especially in the
north of the country. There are also pockets of poverty in urban areas. The government is
committed to developing a coherent approach to poverty reduction and will prepare a national
poverty-reduction program for the next three years in collaboration with donors by September



- 12 -
1999. Key instruments for poverty reduction will include small-scale pilot programs in rural and
urban areas. Furthermore, the street-children problem and poverty monitoring at the district level
will be addressed by a new World Bank project. Poverty monitoring at the national level, as well
as policy interventions, will be guided by poverty assessments such as the Core Welfare
Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ) 1997 and the fourth Ghana Living Standards Survey (GLSS4),
to be completed in June 1999.
D. Statistical Issues
46. The quality and timeliness of the reporting of core economic statistics will continue to
require govemment attention over the next three years. The government is taking steps to
improve fiscal data. These include strengthening the Research Divisions in the Ministry of
Finance, and the Bank of Ghana, the Office of the Accountant General, and the Ghana Statistical
Service. An important action to improve statistical reporting is the compilation of all domestic
payments arrears, outstanding government loans, and loans guaranteed by the government and
the Bank of Ghana. The government is committed to improving the timeliness of national
income accounts, the adequacy of data on public enterprises, and the availability of labor market
data. The government is also committed to reducing lags in the reporting of consumer prices and
monetary accounts to not more than one month, and the budget execution data to six weeks.
Furthermore, the Bank of Ghana will revise the reporting system of commercial banks to fully
identify the residency of foreign currency deposits as well as expand the coverage of the
reporting system to include other deposit-taking intermediaries in line with technical assistance
recommendations made in July 1997. In addition, the government will assess and explain the
discrepancy between the import data obtained from the Automated System of Customs Data
(ASYCUDA) and those from Customs, Excise and Preventive Services (CEPS), and will ensure
that national accounts and balance of payment statistics reflect the conclusions of the assessment.
A housing and population census will be carried out in 2000.
E. Technical Assistance
47. Ghana's program of macroeconomic adjustment, structural and sectoral reforms will be
supported by technical assistance from the World Bank, the Fund, and several bilateral and
multilateral agencies.
48. The World Bank will assist the authorities in the following areas: cocoa sector reform;
implementation of an expenditure control system; effective delivery of social services;
development and implementation of a public service restructuring plan; banking supervision;
divestiture of parastatals; private participation in infrastructure; and reform of the management
and maintenance of the road network.
49. The Fund will provide technical assistance on national accounts and money and banking
statistics; indirect monetary instruments and liquidity forecasting foreign exchange markets;



- 13 -
banking supervision, including prudential regulations; financial sector legislation; tax structure;
and measures to improve the timeliness and quality of statistics.
F. External Financing Requirements
50. External financing requirements are projected to be about US$2.5 billion over 1999-2001.
For 1999, external financing requirements are estimated to be about US$875 million, of which
official project grants and loans are projected to be US$617 million, slightly lower than in 1998;
and program loans and grants are expected to reach US$197 million, 42 percent higher than in
1998. Financing for 1999 is assured, while under currently identified commitments a gap of
about US$155 million is estimated for the years 2000 and 2001. Financing for the two-year
period will be firmed up in a Consultative Group meeting expected to take place in late 1999,
the gap will be closed if commitments in each year do not fall below their levels for 1999.



- 14 -
Table 1. Ghana: TIming and Implementation of Macroeconomic and Structural Adjustment Policies, 1999-2001
Timing of
Policy Area      Objectives and Targets                       Strategies and Measures                         Measures
L Fiscal policies
A. Revenue       Improve domestic        Review tax system and make adjustments to ensure that the revenue-to-  1999-2001
revenue mobilization    GDP ratio does not decline in the medium term.
and strengthen tax
administration.
B. Expenditure    Improve efficiency and    Reduce road sector arrears by C 30 bilion in the first half of 1999.  June 1999
effectiveness of public
expenditure through    Eliminate road sector arrears.                                     December 2000
improved allocation and
management of public
resources.
C. Budget and                            Provide weekly cash flow projections of government treasury operations for  March 1999
treasury                              public debt and liquidity management.                              onwards
system
Implement Budget and Public Expenditure Management System (BPEMS)   Budgets for
system in targeted ministries and spending units.                 2000 and 2001
II Monetary policy and financial sector reform
Enhance the effec-     Encourage the use of repurchase agreements.                        1999-2000
tiveness of the system of
indirect monetary control
and develop the
secondary market in
domestic debt
instruments.
Accelerate fmancial     Ensure establishmentby Bank of Ghana of monitorable quarterly targets for  March 1999
sector reforms and     banks not meeting capital adequacy requirements. Fully invest additions to
promote greater         deposits in government securities.
competition through
divestiture.
Remove the freeze on bank licensing.                              March 1999
Withdraw licenses of banks that do not meet capital adequacy requirements.  September 1999
Sell at least 30 percent of shares of the National Investment Bank.  September 1999
Divest all Bank of Ghana shares in commercial banks, except for   December 1999
Agricultural Development Bank (ADB).
Reduce government participation in Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB) to  December 1999
20 percent or less of shares.
Divest Bank of Ghana shares in ADB.                               June 2000
Strengthen banking     Implement revised regulations for foreign currency exposure limits.  June 1999
supervision.



- 15 -
Table I. Ghana: Timing and linplementation of Macroeconomic and Structural Adjustment Policies, 1999-2001
Timing of
Policy Area      Objectives and Targets                       Strategies and Measures                         Measures
Set up an apex institution for the rural banking system, fnal supervision  December 1999
authority over the rural banks wiU remain with the central bank.
Submit new draft central bank law and banking law to parliament.  December 1999
Improve the payments   Reduce the maximum float time of checks from 5 to 3 days in Accra and  September 1999
system.                from 21 to 9 days between Accra and the regions.
IL External sector policy
A. Exchange      Deepen the foreign      Assess foreign exchange operations with a view to improving narket  1999-2001
system       exchange market.        practices.
Gradually reduce the share of export receipts that needs to be surrendered to  1999-2001
the Bank of Ghana.
B. Extemal debt   Reduce extenal debt    Strictly limit new short-term borrowing and adhere to ceilings envisaged in   1999-2001
management   service burden.           the program regarding new nonconcessional public and publicly guaranteed
borrowing.
Publish annually list of guaranteed loans in the budget documents.  1999-2001
C. Trade policy    Ensure that trade system   Implement Gateway Project aimed at removing constraints to trade.  1999-2001
enhances extemal
competitiveness.
Complete comprehensive review of tariff regime.                   September 1999
Reduce the tariff top rate to 20 percent in harmony with the subregion.  Budget for 2000
Monitor exemptions and report them on a quarterly basis by the Harmonized  1999-2001
System (HS) code.
IV. Sectoral policies
A. Public sector   Reform subvented      Obtain cabinet approval of a legal framework for the reform of subvented    June 1999
reform         agencies.               agencies.
Obtain cabinet approval of altemative employment program for retrenched    December 1999
workers of subvented agencies.
Obtain cabinet approval of a fully costed program to reform remaining  June 2000
subvented agencies.
Complete pilot reform of at least 17 subvented agencies.          December 2001
Complete restructuring of central management agencies.            December 2001
B. Local         Develop capacity at the    Submit to parliament draft legislation to estabhsh local government service.  June 1999
government    local level.
Complete study of fiscal decentralization.                        December 2000



- 16-
Table 1. Ghana: Timing and Implementation of Macroeconomic and Structural Adjustment Policies, 1999-2001
Timing of
Policy Area      Objectives and Targets                       Strategies and Measures                          Measures
C. Private sector   Improve Ghana's      Announce a divestiture work program, including annual targets for   March 1999
Development   economic                 divestiture receipts for the period 1999-2000.
competitiveness through
privatization.          Decide on the treatment of the stock of outstanding liabilities of the State
Housing Corporation, Electricity Company of Ghana, Ghana Railways, and   June 1999
Ghana Airways.
Publish revised privatization impact assessment.                   June 1999
Publish annual audited accounts of the Divestiture Implementation
Committee (DIC):
1998                                                            September 1999
subsequent years.                                               Mid year
Outsource for divestiture Ghana Airways, Ghana Railways, and Electricity    December 1999
Company of Ghana.
D. Electricity   Implement power sector   Issue "Statement of Power Sector Development Policy."              March 1999
reforrn program.
Complete and issue Transitional Power System Development Plan (1999-    September 1999
2001).
Publish and implement complete "Guidelines for Fixing Rates for Electricity  September 1999
Services" (Section 16 of Act 538).
Enact legislation on "Electricity Regulations-Operation of National  December 1999
Interconnected System" (Section 546 of Act 541) and complete separation
of electricity transmission utility (National Grid Company Ltd.) from Volta
River Authority (VRA).
Offer for sale the Electricity Company of Ghana.                   December 1999
E. Petroleum     Promote competition in    Complete financial restructuring for the Tema Oil Refinery (TOR) Ltd.  June 1999
marketing and supply.
Enact legislation on 'Petroleum Regulations-Marketing of Petroleum  December 1999
Products" (Section 56 of Act 541) and complete phase out of practice of
setting maximum retail margins for petroleum products.
Offer TOR for sale.                                                December 1999
F. Transportation   Ensure functioning of  Adjust-fuel levy as agreed under the Road Subsector Strategy.     1999-2001
road fund.
Complete tolling of approved roads.                                December 1999
Improve efficiency and    Issue invitation for bids to concession Ghana Railways.          June 2000
lower costs of rail
transport.
Increase competition in   Issue invitation for bids to concession port operations.         June 2000
supply of port services.



- 17 -
Table 1. Ghana: Timning and lnplementation of Macroeconomic and Structural Adjustment Policies, 1999-2001
Timing of
Policy Area      Objectives and Targets                        Strategies and Measures                          Measures
G. Water         Promote private          Implement a program of tariff increases to achieve cost recovery.   1999-2001
participation and
competition to improve    Issue invitation for bids for lease of urban water systems.       October 1999
supply.
Convert Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation into Ghana Water       January 2000
Company and complete staff rationalization program.
Complete transfer of all small water systems and remaining sewerage  December 2000
systems to district assemblies.
H. Agriculture    Sustain food security and  Subnit Agricultural Services Sector Investment Plan (AGSSIP) to cabinet    September 1999
increase foreign        for approval.
exchange eamings
through export          Implement AGSSIP.                                                   June 2000
diversification.
Improve competitiveness  Obtain cabinet approval of the medium-tern cocoa strategy, including  March 1999
of Ghana' s cocoa sector.  timetable for key measures.
Offer for sale the Produce Buying Company (PBC).                    June 1999
Accelerate the increase in farmers' share in f.o.b. price of cocoa starting in    1999-2001
1999/2000 crop season to at least:
60 percent in 1999/2000, and
62 percent in 2000/2001.
Ensure equal access to Cocoa Marketing Board (Cocobod) crop financing  1999/2000 crop
and warehousing by licensed buying companies.                       season
Allow qualified Licensed Buying Companies (LBCs) to export at least  2000/2001 crop
30 percent of their cocoa purchase.                                 season
I. Fisheries     Develop sustainable      Submit to parliament the Fisheries Management and Development Bill.  December 1999
fisheries.
J. Forestry and  Ensure conservation of    Periodically increase forest fees to reflect the stumpage value of trees, with   1999-2001
Environment    natural resources and    rates ranginig from 5 percent to 20 percent of f.o.b. timber prices, depending
protection of the       on the demand and inventory levels of the species.
environment.
Implement the provisions of the Timber Resource Management Act, 1998,    1999
and its regulations.
Promote more effective    Initiate pilot scheme on community collaboration in resources management   2000
environmental resource
management.             Submit to parliament revised wildlife regulations.
2000
Ensure Energy Commission enforcement of standards for gasoline stations.   June 2000
K. Land                                   Qbtain cabinet approval of the draft national land policy.           1999
management



- 18 -
Table 1. Ghana: Timing and Implementation of Macroeconomic and Structural Adjustnent Policies, 1999-2001
Timing of
Policy Area     Objectives and Targets                       Strategies and Measures                         Measures
V. Social policies
A. Education     Improve the quality of,   Formulate intermediate targets, monitoring indicators, and a financing plan   July 1999
and access to schooling.   for free compulsory universal basic education.
Formulate a revised policy framework for tertiary education with sustainable  October 1999
fnancing.
Formulate a phased implementation plan for basic education.       December 1999
Formulate an implementation plan for decentraization of school    December 1999
management responsibilities to districts.
Adopt measures to improve learning outcomes, as evidenced by improving    1999-2001
student test results.
Design and implement an education strategy that will increase national girls  2001
net enrollment in primary schools to 48.5 percent.
Target expenditures on new classroom construction to the deprived areas.    Budgets for
2000 and 2001
Design a self-sustaining student loan scheme.                     October 2000
B. Health        Improve coverage and    Increase health expenditure as a percent of domestic primary expenditure  1999-2001
quality of health and  and maintain a reasonable balance betveen capital and recurrent
family planming services.  expenditures.
Increase the number of budget management centers (BMCs) that are able to   1999-2001
provide quarterly expenditure returns.
Elaborate a hospital development policy.                          December 1999
Develop three-year rolling procurement plans for BMCs.            December 1999
Increase the number of contracts between district hospitals, both with  1999-2001
Nongovermmental Organizations and with private providers of health
services.
C. Poverty       Raise living standards of  Design small-scale pilot poverty-reduction programs in the urban and rural   1999
the poorest segments of   areas.
population.
Complete the fourth Ghana Living Standards Survey.                June 1999
Prepare a national poverty-reduction program in collaboration with donors.   September 1999
VI. Statistical issues
Improve quality and    Set up weekly indicators of market conditions (exchange rates, reserve  April 1999
timeliness of statistics.    money, net foreign assets of the central bank, net placement of government
securities (outside the central bank), interest rates) to be prepared with no
more than one week lag.
Assess and explain discrepancy in import data between data reported by



- 19-
Table 1. Ghana: Timing and Implementation of Macroeconomic and Structural Adjustment Policies, 1999-2001
Timing of
Policy Area      Objectives and Targets                       Strategies and Measures                          Measures
Automated System for Customs Data (ASYCUDA) systems and by         June 1999
Customs, Excise and Preventive Services (CEPS).
Reduce lags in reporting consumer prices indices and monetary accounts to   June 1999
one month and in reporting budgetary data to six weeks.
Continue the quarterly publication of updated national accounts (sources  1999-2001
and uses) with a lag of at most six months.
Conduct a housing and population census.                           2000



- 20 -
Table 2. Ghana: Selected Economic and Financial Indicators, 1996-2001
1996        1997               1998                1999       2000     2001
Prog.       Prel.        Prog.      Prog.      Prog.
(Annual percentage change, unless otherwise specified)
National income and prices
Real GDP                                                     4.6          4.2         5.6          4.6         5.5        6.0       6.0
Real GDP per capita                                           1.8         1.5         2.8          1.8         2.7        3.2       3.2
Nominal GDP                                                 46.3         24.5        25.1        23.0         14.6       13.7      12.2
GDP deflator                                                39.8         19.5        20.6        17.6          8.6        7.4       5.9
Consumer price index (annual average)                       46.6         27.9        15.5         19.3        10.0        6.4       5.0
Consumerprice index (end of period)                         32.7         20.8        11.0         15.8         9.0        5.0       5.0
Extemal sector
Exports, fo.b.                                               9.9         -5.2         9.7         22.8         2.7       12.8      13.8
Imports, f.o.b.                                             15.0          9.9         9.8          4.0         1.8        9.3      10.4
Exportvolume                                                 12.5        -0.7         7.5         16.3         3.5        9.2       7.8
Jinport volume                                              13.8         14.4        10.3        24.5          7.1        6.2       6.2
Teems of trade                                               -3.3        -0.7         2.6         26.4         4.3        0.3       1.5
Nominal effective exchange rate 1/                          -26.8       -14.7         ...         -9.2
Real effective exchange rate 1/                              12.2         7.2         ...          7.8
Cedis per U.S. dollar 1I                                   1,637        2,050          ...      2,314           ...        ...       ...
Goverrmnent budget
Domestic revenue                                            26.1         22.5        30.4         29.8        17.7       14.4      13.2
Total expenditure                                           42.8         19.8        25.3         22.7         7.4        9.0       6.6
Currentexpenditure                                         46.5         227         18.9        31.4          3.8        4.2       7.7
Capitalexpenditureandnetlending 2/                         38.6         16.4        35.3         11.4        12.8       15.8       5.3
Money and credit 3!
Net domestic assets 4/                                      32.3         33.5         9.5         15.5         8.6       11.7       7.3
Credit to government 4/                                    12.8         22.0         9.2         10.5         5.4         ...       ...
Creditto therest of the economy 4/                         15.7         20.9         5.3        13.0          8.1         ...       ...
Broad money (including foreign currency deposits)           39.7         40.8        18.0         17.7        14.6       13.7      12.2
Reserve money                                               44.3         33.4        17.0         16.7        11.4       11.2      10.9
Velocity (GDP/average broad money)                            5.6         4.9         5.0          4.4         4.4        4.4       4.4
Treasuly bill rate (in percent;end of period)               42.8         40.0         ...         26.8
(In percent of GDP, unless otherwise specified)
Investment and saving
Gross investment                                            21.5         24.1        17.9         22.9        23.7       24.7      25.4
Private                                                     8.2        11.7         5.5         11.6        12.6        13.4      14.8
Public                                                     13.3        12.4        12.4         11.3        11.1        11.3      10.6
Gross national saving                                       16.7         15.4        13.7         19.4        20.8       22.2      23.0
Private                                                    13.7         15.0         8.3         16.2        15.2       15.5      16.0
Public                                                      3.0          0.4         5.4          3.2         5.6        6.6       7.0
Government budget
Domestic revenue                                             17.6        17.3        18.3         18.3        18.8       18.9      19.1
Total grants                                                 2.6          1.4         2.9          2.2         2.4        2.0       1.7
Total expenditure 2/                                        29.7         28.6        27.5         28.6        26.8       25.6      24.4
Overall balance (commitment basis)                           -9.5        -9.9        -6.3         -8.1        -5.5       -4.7      -3.6
Domestic primacy balance                                     0.3          3.2         3.8          3.6         3.5        3.6       3.7
Divestiture receipts                                          1.3         0.7         0.8          0.6         0.5        0.4       0.2
External sector
Current account balance 5/                                   -4.7        -8.8        -4.2         -3.5        -2.9       -2.5      -2.4
External debt outstanding                                   84.2         82.5        95.2         79.2        76.9       74.6      71.4
Extemal debt service, including to the Fund                   8.9         7.6         8.7          7.5         6.2        6.7       5.3
(in percent of exports of goods and nonfactor services)     35.7        31.6        33.2         28.1        24.5        24.7      18.7
(in percent of government revenue)                          38.7        44.9        38.1         34.7        29.8        26.2      20.3
(In millions of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise specified)
Current account balance 5/                                  -328         -603       -290         -261         -234       -211      -227
Overallbalanceofpayments                                     -14          25         119           99          77          34        88
External payments arrears (end of period)                      0           0           0            0            0          0         0
Gross international reserves (end of period)                 591         508         478          502         561         616       730
(in months of inports, c.if.)                               4.4         2.6         2.7          2.5         2.7         2.8       3.0
Use of Fund resources
Purchases/disbursements                                       27          41         110          111          61          60        60
Repurchases/repayments                                        86         -165        137          105          78          39        35
Credit outstanding                                           377         354         317          321         316         337       362
Quota (in millions of SDR)                                   274         274         274          274         369
Nominal GDP (in billions of cedis)                        11,339       14,113      17,655       17,357      19,885     22,619    25,378
Sources: Ghanaian authorities; and Fund staff estimates and projections.
I/Annual average data.
2/ Including capital outlays fmanced through extemal project aid and transfers to the local authorities.
31From December 1996, the coverage was increased from 11 to 17 banks,
4/ In percent of broad money at the beginming of the period.
5/ Including official grants.



- 21 -
Table 3. Ghana: Selected Social and Demographic Indicators
Latest Single Year           Same Region/Income Group
Sub-Saharan      Low
1970-75    1980-85    1990-96         Africa       income
Population
Total population, midyear (millions)            9.8       12.6       17.5         596.4       3,236.2
Growth rate (annual average in percent)         2.2        3.7        2.7           2.7           1.8
Urban population (population in percent)       30.1       32.3       36.4          31.7          29.1
Total fertility rate (births per woman)         6.6        6.5        5.0           5.6           3.2
Population age structure (percent)
0-14 years                                    ...         ...                      ...          ...
15-64 years                                   ...        ...                       ...          ...
65 and above                                   ..         ...                      ...           ..
Life expectancy at birth (years)
Total                                          50.0       53.0       58.9          52.1          63.1
Male                                         48.0       52.0       56.9          50.6          61.9
Female                                       52.0       55.0       61.0          53.8          64.3
Mortality
Infant (per 1,000 live births)                107.0       98.0       71.0          91.1          68.0
Underage 5 (perthousand live births)            ...         ...     110.0         147.0          93.5
Adult (aged 15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                    ...        ...     320.0         447.9         231.1
Female (per 1,000 population)                             ...     253.0         375.9         206.2
Matemal (per 100,000 live births)               ...   1,000.0       740.0
Income
GNP per capita (U.S. dollar)                 300.0       360.0      390.0         490.0         490.0
Consumer price index (1990=100)                  ...      31.0    1,069.6         266.0         275.3
Food price index (1990=100)                     ...       26.0      979.9
Income/consumption distribution
(percent of income or consumption)
Lowest quintile                                 ...         ...       7.9            ...
Highest quintile                                ...         ...      42.2
Social indicators
Public expenditure (percent of GDP)
Health                                         ...        ...        1.3            ..          1.5
Education                                     3.6        1.9         3.1           5.3          3.6
Social security and welfare                               ...        ...           ...           ...
Health and nutrition
Access to safe water (percent of population)
Total                                        35.0         ...       56.0         45.0          76.0
Urban                                      86.0        57.0       70.0          63.0          80.4
Rural                                      14.0       40.3        49,0          34.4         72.0
Per capita supply (1993)
Calories (per day)                           ...        ...      2,141            ...
Protein (grams per day)                      ...        ...        34             ..



- 22 -
Table 3. Ghana: Selected Social and Demographic Indicators
Latest Single Year            Same Region/Income Group
Sub-Saharan      Low
1970-75    1980-85    1990-95          Africa       Income
Inmunization rate (percent under 12 months)
Measles                                          ...         ...      54.0            60            77
DPT                                               ...        22         51            58            80
Child malnutrition (percent under 5 years)          ...       ...       27.4            ...           42
Labor force
Total labor force (in millions)                  ...        ...          8            ...
Participation rate (in percent)
Total                                          ...         ...       43.0           ...           ...
Male                                           ...         ...       53.0           ...            ...
Female                                         ...         ...        4.0           ...            ...
Education (1993)
Enrollment rates (in percent of age group)
Primary enrollment                              ...        ...        76             ...           ...
Of which female                               ...        ...        70             ...           ...
Secondary enrollment                           ...         ...        36
Of which female                               ...        ...        28             ...           ...
Literacy (in percent of population
15 years and older)                              ...        ...         60            ...           ...
Poverty incidence (percent of population
below the poverty line) 1/                              1987-88       1992
National head count index                                  36.9       31.4
Accra                                                    8.5       23.0
Other urban                                            33.4        27.7
rural coastal                                           37.7       28.6
rural forest                                           38.1        33.0
rural Savannah                                         49.9        38.3
Sources: Ghana Statistical Service, Quarterly Digest of Statistics IMF, International Financial Statistics:
and the World Bank.
1/ Poverty line estimated at Cedis 132,230 per year as at mid-1992. Based on the living standards surveys
conducted by the Ghana Statistical Service in collaboration with the World Bank during 1987-88,1988-89,
and 1991-92.



- 23 -
Table 4. Ghana: External Financing Requirements and Sources, 1996-2001
1996      1997       1998       1999       2000       2001
(In millions of U.S. dollars)
Current account                                            -534      -763       -492       -470       -422       -419
(excluding official transfers)
Exports, fo.b.                                         1,573      1,491      1,830      1,880      2,119      2,412
Imports, fo.b.                                        -1,937     -2128      -2,213     -2253      -2,463     -2,719
Services (net)                                          -446      .485       -487       -476       -497       -551
Private transfers                                        276        360       378        380        418        439
Capital account                                            -373      -267       -318       -345       -340       -245
Scheduled amortization                                   -210      -230       -286       -311        -401      -310
IMF repayments                                           -125       -166      -139        -78         -39       -35
Othercapital(net)l/                                       -37        128        107        45        100        100
Change in official reserves (increase-)                     100       140        -72        -59        -55       -114
Change in arears (decrease -)                              -100         0          0          0          0          0
Extemal financing requirements                            -906       -890       -882       -874       -817       -778
Expected disbursements                                     806        890        882        874        745        695
Grants                                                    206        160        230       235        197        160
Project                                                  153        128        188       185        159        127
other                                                                                    0         15         33
Concessional loans                                        561        730        540        579       488        475
Project                                                  487       690        447        438        367        375
other                                                                                   52          0
IM8F                                                       40          0        111        61         60         60
Financing gap                                                 0         0          0          0         73         83
Sources: Ghanarian authonties; and Fund staff estimates and projections.
1/ Including Errors and Omissions.



- 24 -
Table 5. Ghana: Extemal Public Debt and Debt Service Payments, 1996-2007
1996     1997     1998        999    2000      2001     2002      2003     2004      2005     2006     2007
(nmillincs of U.S. dollan)
Total public mnd publicly gvuranteed debt I/        5,829    5,679    5,943    6,205    6,371      6,612    6,823    6,976    7,115      7,274    7,436    7,604
Multilateal (inchuding DS)                       3,690    3,543    3,639    3,908    4,193       4,419    4,721     4,894    5,043    5,194    5,338    5,472
Bilatamlll/                                      1,853     1,849    2,010    2,003    1,883      1,838    1,807     1,787    1,777    1,785    1,803    1,837
Other 1!                                           285      287       295      295       295      295       295      295       295      295      295       295
xtenmal public debt service
Principal                                           469      396       425      389       440      345       294      287       292      271       268      263
Medium-term                                        134      156       193      195       251      200        91       78        62       49        35       16
Lasg.term                                          210       74        93      116       150      110       188      ISS       188      168       179      184
DO repurchases                                     125      166       139       78        39       35        15       21        42       54       54        63
Interest                                            148      128       139      113       128      143       131      130       130      130       130      131
Medium-term                                         61       50        54       41        51       66        71       68        65       63        62       61
LIesg.term                                          73       68        76       69        74       74        57       59        62       64        66       67
IMFcharges                                          14       11         9        3         3        3         3        3         3        3         3        2
Total
1ncldingl Be                                       617      523       563      503       568      488       426      418       422      401      398       394
Excluding BEf                                      477      347       416      422       526      450       407      393       377      344      341       329
Memorandum items:                                                                                  (In percent)
External public debt-service ratio 2/
including Da                                      35.7      31.6     28.1      24.5     24.7      18.7     14.6      IZ9      11.8      10.2      9.2      8.2
ExcludingDhf                                      27.6      21.0     20.8      20.5     22.9      17.3     14.0      12.2     10.6       8.7      7.9      6.9
Ratio of extemal public debt-service to GDP
Including IMF                                      8.9       7.6      7.5       6.2      6.7       5.3      4.2       3.8      3.5       3.0      2.7      2.5
ExcludinglDO                                       6.9       5.0      5.5       5.2      6.2       4.9      4.0       3.6      3.1       2.6      2.3      2.1
Ratio of edemalpublio debtto GDP                   84.2      82.5     79.2      76.9     74.6      71.4     61.3      63.2     58.7      54.8     51.2     47.7
Extemalpublicdebt(NPVyexports                     202.6    209.3    197.6    191.2    114.4    164.0    149.4    136.4    125.3    115.7    109.5    101.6
Sources: Ghanaian audorities; and Fund staff estimates and projecticns.
1/ As a share of expca of goods and non factor services.
2/ In percent of GDP.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 23606
3                               2'                              1' I                                                             1                                 2
BURKINA FASO                                     >,               ' r,zU
C1' w-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*~~    2 * - Pdrw<,,o)okom
Qz,,                                     'Loil     G wl,, N s l,/  
(    rK  .              '>-BOLOGATANGA ,                               /
Hon                            LPPER                     N,               Nkpdurr,
te liPPER -                                                                                            Xei1"vr GHANA
I(\    a       VES TjEST w  L                                     orirg&'
)   iS  \  Per l ) -r\ i9N.S 
t  t                  Yalc    t    xf          ,f         i  Nosep> 
t'   \    W iA    - BulengOo  9  <               )>        Pigu      I       -                                      -- PRIMARY ROADS
*'                                                                    '>      i                           -- -tg -> r ;) 4 > su WupX SECONDARY ROADS
 i                              gNORTHERN    f   -             <       iphguLr;  A J                        - - TERTIARY ROADS
\7 t L ~~~~~~~ $ gZobzugu 1 v3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION HEADQUARTERS
jOChooche                                                                                     < usuu  ......   <     ;gCombulgu ,....................r-~A  )PTALo 5  *  NATIONAL CAPITAL
<   OBole    \ D =   Yow!fBeO g);z   iJ             S      '   C 7        i           t - - - ~~~~~~REGION BOUNDARIES             _
3   -   4         tS          1                       BimbioOl           !                  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Bimbis0
The boundaries, colors,
COTE               X                  r         z                                                                               denomirations and  any
other information shown
on this map do not
D'IVOIRE         M\kcn5a                                                                                        Ema i,o           imply, on  the part of
The World Bank Group,
_/                        oj> N,        ,       oCh ad3> r     |         r       any jodgment on the legal
B.b            /                          -      '~~-           CStatus of any  territory,
I  OlOntomns                                           C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,bi  ,o= acetnce sf such 
-8- ~      ~~~ .ampa                /         >                            raiopongg                            Dmbi)              boundaries.3 
/ J BR9NG0-AH  Q 
X ;7 <, o^~~~~~~~~~~~tebL.      o  3   s
|,,,,,ti ~        ~         osma        ,,.,, ,                                                        (.1ur                            I .I,.X   %   
Bk.                                                                            1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 2    us 8 0 K I.O.ETERS
'0 L      SUNYANI                              C                                                         (ors
Lo-ms,
/       '         o    r   '\                                            ,,r v          x    t1    {' i~-'t,
sstASHANTI
As ~     ~       \                 4$fNrrisr4f 
;                     ~~~~KUMASI ( s                                          t                   Doe\TOGO
.             -. B~~~~~ibn,                                                         TE\ ,SF4N ~      >{ 
.nh,             o          Howg Assrkrsg,sso                                                       'f!F1''
\ 0.k. X~~rl',s                          Er.sr                                                   F?AI.EiI
30                X  .  '\ o . ,  y  1  1
Obu-          f -=D; tEIE6Ati4 rfyed,v                               -,aL Cbod    fD3u
LECi\h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~555 i..                                                 bts          '..,   Vctko fro      J
GULF OF GUtNEA                                     , ;ER    'GHuNAt (    ttut       AK ANoo.lL
FEBRUARY 1995



