                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                         Report No: 26744

                       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
              (IDA-32280 IDA-32281 IDA-32282 IDA-32283 PPFI-Q1280 TF-23354)

                                          ON A

                                        CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$180 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF GHANA

                                       FOR THE

               SECOND ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION CREDIT




                                    December 15, 2003




Poverty Reduction Economic Management Unit
Africa Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective March 2003)

                            Currency Unit = Cedi (c)
                    c2,418 (March 1999) = US$ 1.00
                                 US$ 1.00 = c8,588 (March 2003)

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1 -     December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOG                      Bank of Ghana
BPEMS                    Budget Public Expenditure Management System
CAS                      Country Assistance Strategy
COCOBOD                  Cocoa Board
DCA                      Development Credit Agreement
DIC                      Divestiture Implementation Committee
ECG                      Electricity Corporation of Ghana
ERP                      Economic Recovery Program
ERSO                     Economic Reform Support Operation
GCB                      Ghana Commercial Bank
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
GPRS                     Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
GOG                      Government of Ghana
GWC                      Ghana Water Corporation
HIPC                     Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IDA                      International Development Association
IMF                      International Monetary Fund
IPRSP                    Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
LBC                      Licensed Buying Company
LDP                      Letter of Development Policy
MTEF                     Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NIB                      National Investment Bank
PEPTA                    Public Enterprise and Privatization Technical Assistance Project
PFP                      Policy Framework Paper
PR                       President's Report
PRGF                     Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSC                     Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PSMRP                    Public Sector Management Reform Program
PUFMARP                  Public Finance Management Reform Program
PURC                     Public Utilities Regulatory Commission
SDR                      Special Drawing Rights
TOR                      Tema Oil Refinery
VAT                      Value-Added Tax
VRA                      Volta River Authority



                           Vice President:       Callisto E. Madavo
                        Country Director         Mats Karlsson
                         Sector Manager          Emmanuel Akpa
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Marcelo Andrade

                                            GHANA
                        Second Economic Reform Support Operation


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            21
Annex 8. Government Comments                                                     23

Project ID: P040557                                                  Project Name: ERSO II
Team Leader: Marcelo R. Andrade                                      TL Unit: AFTP4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 15, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: ERSO II                                                  L/C/TF Number: IDA-32280; IDA-32281;
                                                                                                     IDA-32282; IDA-32283;
                                                                                                     PPFI-Q1280; TF-23354
   Country/Department: GHANA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (40%); General finance sector
                            (20%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (16%);
                            General transportation sector (12%); General energy sector (12%)
                  Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P); State
                            enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Public
                            expenditure, financial management and procurement (S); Export
                            development and competitiveness (S); Debt management and fiscal
                            substainability (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/09/1999                                     Effective: 07/01/1999                07/23/1999
     Appraisal: 04/08/1999                                         MTR:
      Approval: 05/27/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC
                                           DEVELOPMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Mats Karlsson                                  Peter Harrold
Sector Manager:                 Emmanuel Akpa                                  Charles Humphreys
Team Leader at ICR:             Marcelo Andrade                                Rocio Castro
ICR Primary Author:             Karen Hendrixson


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objective of the Second Economic Reform Support Operation (ERSO II) was to provide balance of
payments support contingent upon a satisfactory macroeconomic framework and the implementation of
key structural reforms in the cocoa, banking, and energy sectors. ERSO II was a three-tranche (two
fixed and one floating) credit of SDR 132.7 million Credit (US$180 million equivalent).            ERSO II
followed the first ERSO, a one-tranche operation of SDR 37.1 million (US$50 million equivalent)
approved by the Bank in June 1998, which successfully bridged the transition between a period of policy
slippage and the resumption of reforms, and laid the foundation for a renewed macroeconomic
stabilization and reform effort.

ERSO II was designed to consolidate gains in restoring macroeconomic stability, thereby creating the
basis for sustained, broad-based, private sector-led economic growth. The Credit's proceeds were to help
cover Ghana's external financing requirements in the context of a vulnerable external position and low
level of reserves. In addition, by providing counterpart funds for the budget, the Credit would help
reduce the government's net domestic financing and domestic debt burden by limiting increases in the
stock of debt, thereby facilitating a decline in real interest rates.

The Credit marked the full resumption of Ghana's adjustment program. Beginning in 1983 under its
Economic Recovery Program (ERP), the Government had successfully implemented a series of
macroeconomic and structural reforms which reversed the country's profound economic decline since
independence. This adjustment effort suffered significant setbacks between 1992 and 1997. In the run
up to both the 1992 and 1996 elections, sharply higher overspending caused fiscal imbalances and
higher inflation. Increased reliance on treasury bills to finance large deficits and absorb domestic liquidity
led to a rapid increase in domestic debt, high real interest rates, and a sharp increase in domestic debt
servicing obligations. In addition, the pace of structural reform slowed and key structural reforms were
reversed in response to political pressure.

In 1997, the Government began to focus again on restoring macroeconomic stability, implementing
substantial expenditure cuts and signaling its intention to move ahead with unfinished structural reforms.
In 1998, a 10 percent Value-Added Tax (VAT) and two energy tariff increases, totaling over 200 percent,
were introduced. Implementation of these measures was particularly significant since these policies had
been rescinded in 1995-1996. These measures paved the way for the resumption of Ghana's Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF, later named the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility, or PRGF)
arrangement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in 1998, following an eighteen-month
interruption, and the Bank's approval of ERSO I in June 1998.

ERSO II's reform program and objectives directly reflected the Government's priorities and development
strategy as outlined in its Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1999-2001, and set forth in the
Government's Letter of Development Policy (LDP). By supporting stabilization efforts and including
measures to remove constraints for private sector development, ERSO II was also an integral part of the
Bank's medium- to long-term approach for Ghana as outlined in the 1997 Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS).

3.2 Revised Objective:

Program objectives remained unchanged and the project design was not modified.

3.3 Original Components:

The program supported by ERSO II included: (i) measures to promote macroeconomic stability and
fiscal reform; and (ii) structural reforms to promote the private sector, which focused on reforms in the




                                                       - 2 -

cocoa, financial sector, and energy sector. These components are discussed below:

Macroeconomic Stability and Fiscal Reform:               Under ERSO II, the Government's macroeconomic
policy for 1999-2001 aimed at (i) accelerating economic growth to about 6 percent annually; (ii) bringing
down inflation to single digit levels, to 9 percent in 1999 and 5 percent subsequently; and (iii) maintaining
the country's external position at manageable levels by increasing the stock of gross international
reserves equivalent to three months of imports. Fiscal and monetary policies were aimed at substantially
reducing the Government's net domestic borrowing requirement to about 2.8 percent of GDP in
1999-2000, and to 1.3 percent of GDP in 2001, thereby resulting in a decline of the stock of domestic
debt (to 20 percent of GDP) by 2001, reducing pressure on interest rates, and freeing banking system
resources for private sector credit.

Fiscal reforms focused on enhancing revenue mobilization, streamlining the import tariff regime and
increasing efficiency of public spending. The first, entailed the replacement of the 15 percent sales and
service tax by a VAT and the establishment of the Revenue Agencies Governing Board. The second,
aimed at further rationalizing the import tariff regime. The third, involved the formulation of the budget on
an MTEF (Medium-Term Expenditure Framework) basis and implementation of a budget and public
expenditure management system (BPEMS). It also involved eliminating road arrears by the end of 2000.
 In 1997, the Government announced that arrears to private road contractors were equal to 0.3 percent
of GDP and, in part due to high interest rates, these arrears tripled in 1998.

Structural Reforms: While ERSO II provided broad-based support to the Government's ongoing reform
efforts, the key elements of these efforts were the reforms in the cocoa, financial, and energy sectors
which aimed at improving Ghana's attractiveness to private investment.

Cocoa Reform:        Following broad consultation with stakeholders, the Government revised its
medium-term strategy to improve the cocoa industry's competitiveness and increase farmers' incomes.
The key elements of the strategy were: (i) raising the producer price to 65 percent of the f.o.b. price in
1999/2000 and to 70 percent by 2004/5; (ii) reducing the cocoa export tax from 25.8 percent to 15
percent of the f.o.b. export price by the year 2004/5; (iii) allowing qualified licensed buying companies
(LBCs) to export 30 percent of their domestic purchases, starting with the 2000/2001 crop season; (iv)
deepening internal marketing price competition by giving all LBCs equal access to the warehousing and
crop financing facilities of Cocoa Board (COCOBOD - the state marketing agency); and (v) abolishing
price discounts on exportable cocoa to domestic processors. These measures were anticipated to result
in an increase in cocoa production to 500,000 tons by 2004/5, up from approximately 400,000 tons in
1999.

Financial Sector Reform: Under ERSO II, the Government of Ghana (GOG) renewed its financial sector
reform efforts, which had come to a standstill by the end of 1998. A number of measures were to be
undertaken to improve the soundness and efficiency of the financial system, including draft legislation to
increase the Bank of Ghana's (BOG) supervisory powers and autonomy in the formulation and
implementation of monetary policy. By mid-2000, the BOG would also divest all its shares in all banks.
To strengthen the performance of the banking sector, the GOG pledged to withdraw the licenses, and
liquidate by September 1999, those banks that did not meet the minimum capital adequacy ratio.           The
Government also pledged to proceed with the divestiture of the Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB), the
country's largest commercial bank. Finally, the divestiture of the National Investment Bank (NIB) would
also be completed.

Energy Sector Reform: As set forth in the LDP, the objectives of the Government's energy sector
reforms under ERSO II were to create an efficient and reliable energy sector through the establishment
of competitive pricing and marketing arrangements and to encourage private investment in the provision
of petroleum products and power services.            To this end, the PURC was to finalize tariff-setting
guidelines as the basis for future electricity pricing, and the Government was to complete regulations
governing generation and sales. In addition, the Volta River Authority (VRA) was to unbundle its
transmission and generation activities and the Electricity Corporation of Ghana (ECG) was to be
restructured into a holding company and five distribution units. These units were to be offered for sale by


                                                       - 3 -

June 2000. On petroleum, retail prices were to be liberalized and the Tema Oil Refinery (TOR) was to
be offered for sale by end 1999.

The Credit's components were clearly linked to the general objectives described in Section 3.1 above.
Through policy conditionality, ERSO II supported reforms that would encourage private sector
investment in the energy and banking sectors (through divestiture of the NIB, GCB, and ECG, and
establishment of guidelines governing electricity sales). In addition, increases in the prices paid to cocoa
farmers would help reduce rural poverty, in accordance with Ghana Vision 2020. Finally, maintenance of
a satisfactory macroeconomic policy framework would support economic growth and encourage
investment.

3.4 Revised Components:

The Credit Agreement for ERSO II was amended four times.                Two of these amendments were
significant, including restructuring the second tranche and adding a supplemental credit, while two simply
related to IDA reflows.

The first amendment was made on June 28, 2000 to attach a second IDA reflow for FY 00 (Credit 3228-2
GH), in the amount of SDR 900,000. The first IDA Reflow for FY 99 in the amount of SDR 1.3 million
was attached to the Credit at the time of signing and included in the DCA. At the time of signing, the first
tranche or Category (1) in the amount of SDR 59.0 million was also released.

A second amendment was made on September 8, 2000 to restructure the Credit's second tranche by
dividing it into two, namely: (i) the reduced Second Tranche or Category (2) in the amount of SDR 37.0
million; and (ii) the newly named Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB) Floating Tranche or Category (4) in
the amount of SDR 20.7 million. The floating tranche in the mount of SDR 14.7 million, or Category (3),
was renamed the ECG Tranche.

The third amendment (Credit 3228-3-GH) was made on September 20, 2000, creating the Supplemental
Tranche or Category (5), providing a supplemental credit of SDR 37.0 million (US$50 million equivalent)
to assist Ghana to meet unanticipated increased financing requirements caused by severe terms of trade
shock which Ghana experienced in 1999-2000. Ghana had tackled the unfavorable developments by
tightening monetary policy to limit the impact on inflation of the large devaluation and oil price hike,
increasing the VAT rate and raising petroleum taxes. This supplemental credit was consistent with the
Bank's newly approved (in March 2000) CAS for Ghana which allowed for the possibility of an ERSO II
supplement in case of a further deterioration of the external situation.         The supplemental Credit
contained no conditions; in retrospect, greater consideration should have been given to linking its
disbursement to additional increases in petroleum prices to prevent further financial imbalances from
occurring (see Section 4 below).


A fourth Amendment was made on February 23, 2001 to separate the two IDA Reflows (FY 99 and FY
00) from other disbursement categories in which they had earlier been included. Consequently, this
amendment created two more disbursement categories: (i) the First IDA Reflow, or Category (6), of SDR
1.3 million; and (ii) the Second IDA Reflow, or Category (7), of SDR 900,000.

The closing date of the Credit was modified twice. The original closing date of June 30, 2001 was
amended to June 30, 2002 to give more time to divest the GCB to the Government that took office in
January 2001. A second extension was granted in June 2002, setting a new closing date of June 2003.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

This operation was not formally evaluated for quality at entry by the Quality of Assurance Group. Quality
at entry is assessed as satisfactory for the reasons explained below.

Consistency with Bank and Government priorities. ERSO II objectives were compatible with the 1997
CAS, which identified the need of adjustment loans (provided the fiscal effort was on track) to support



                                                    - 4 -

continued implementation of the government's reform agenda. While the size of the Credit brought the
level of adjustment lending closer to the high-end of what was envisioned under the CAS for FY98-00
(US$230 million compared with $150 million), this was justified at the time by the proposed reforms in
the cocoa sector which were seen as a major breakthrough in the policy dialogue. In addition, the CAS
provided for increased adjustment lending should the domestic debt burden be higher than anticipated,
as was the case for 1998-2000. Moreover, the policy package supported by ERSO II drew directly from
the reform efforts initiated under ERSO I. Conditions outlined in ERSO I were specified as "triggers" for
the introduction of ERSO II. A specified number of these triggers were satisfactorily implemented by the
Government prior to the Credit's negotiation. These were: re-introduction of the VAT; establishment of a
Central Revenue Authority; formulation of the 1999 budget on a MTEF basis; approval of financial
restructuring plan for the electricity companies; and completing a medium-term cocoa strategy. The
Credit was implemented in parallel with the IMF's ESAF/PRGF arrangement which commenced in May
1999 and was also complemented by other ongoing Bank Credits. These included the Public Sector
Management Reform Program (PSMRP), the Public Finance Management and Reform Program
(PUFMARP I) and the Public Enterprise and Privatization Technical Assistance Project (PEPTA).

ERSO II supported the medium term reform priorities identified by the Government in the Policy
Framework Paper for 1999-2001 and the strategy outlined in the LDP was based on Ghana-Vision 2020
-- the country's growth strategy to turn Ghana into a middle income country ­ which had been designed
in a participatory process in 1995.

Consistency with the Bank's safeguard policies was not an issue for this adjustment loan.

Quality of design. In order to have a tight focus, the design of the Credit rightly excluded from its
coverage several areas that appeared to be important. ERSO II focused on the divestiture of key
enterprises in the energy and banking sector and left the divestiture of smaller public enterprises to be
addressed by the on-going IDA-financed Public Enterprise and Privatization Technical Assistance
Program (PEPTA, Cr. 2877). More specifically, in the financial sector the Credit dealt with only the three
largest banks, although several smaller banks were financially troubled, and left issues relating to money
market development to be addressed through on-going technical assistance arrangements. Similarly, it
was decided that public sector reform was to be covered by the forthcoming Public Sector Management
Reform Adaptable Project Loan (APL, Cr. 3119), presented to the Board in May 1999.


Approximately one half of the measures supported under the Credit were completed either as a trigger
agreed under ERSO I or as a condition of negotiations or for Board presentation. The upfront reforms
adopted in the context of ERSO II, were read as a demonstration of GoG's commitment to the program.
This might have contributed to the ambitious reform agenda covered by the Credit. In retrospect,
however, commitment wavered throughout the life of the Credit and the initial assessment proved to be
unduly positive about what could be accomplished within the Credit's timeframe.

The Credit could have identified more clearly mitigation measures for the potential risks. As anticipated,
the risk of domestic opposition to cocoa reforms from special interest groups, such as COCOBOD and
international cocoa importers, was successfully mitigated by the Government's extensive consultations
with shareholders and gradualist approach to changes in the cocoa sector.           The risk of domestic
opposition to financial sector reforms was largely managed by Government actions to protect depositors,
reimburse terminated staff, and implement a public relations campaign. As for the risk that unforeseen
delays in the privatization of the ECG could occur, given the complex nature of the privatization, a
floating tranche was adopted as a mitigation measure. This was an appropriate vehicle for addressing
this risk, although ultimately it proved insufficient (discussed further below). By contrast, although the
PR acknowledged that delays in the privatization of the GCB could occur owing to public opposition, no
specific mitigating measures were identified. The President's Report (PR) also assumed that the
likelihood of policy slippage would be offset by the Government's political commitment to continue the
policies needed to foster sustained growth and poverty reduction. In light of policy slippages in the 1992
and 1996 elections, the assumption proved to be over optimistic. In the run up to the December 2000
elections, the PRGF program went off track and progress in structural reforms came largely to a halt.



                                                     - 5 -

Finally, while acknowledging that a prolonged slump in the price of cocoa could prevent gains from
proposed reforms from materializing, the PR failed to identify the potential risk posed by the
Government's failure to adopt timely corrective measures to face adverse terms of trade developments.

Tranche release conditions listed in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were cross-referenced
with specific paragraphs in the LDP, reflecting the close mutuality of purpose between the Credit and the
Government's program.

In order to monitor the Credit's impact, selected indicators were defined in the PR.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The outcome of ERSO II is judged to be unsatisfactory as most of its objectives were not achieved. Of
the four main reform areas, only one (cocoa) is considered to have made satisfactory progress compared
to the agreed program. Despite recent gains on reducing inflationary pressures and accelerating growth,
the Credit's macroeconomic stabilization and growth objectives were not met. With regard to structural
reforms in the energy and banking sectors, they were not achieved at all or achieved only partially and,
in several cases, after a considerable delay. Contrary to initially anticipated, at the end of the Credit,
inflation did not fall to single digits, growth did not accelerate to 6 percent and remained basically
unchanged at around 4.5 percent per year, and the stock of domestic debt worsened substantially.
Furthermore, most impact indicators defined in the PR were not achieved by end-2002, despite some
improvement relative to the their status in 1998 (see Table 1 of Annex 1).

While acknowledging the adverse impact of major terms of trade shocks in 1999-2000, the most
significant shortcomings during Credit implementation were weaker than expected macroeconomic
management and inadequate progress on structural reforms both critical to place the country on a
sustainable development path.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Macroeconomic Stability and Fiscal Reform: The objectives of this component were largely not met
and the component is rated marginally unsatisfactory (see Table 2 of Annex 1). The first 18 months of
uneven program implementation suffered the combined effects of a major terms of trade shock and
important policy slippages linked to the December 2000 elections. Subsequently, however, progress was
made in restoring macroeconomic stability and growth. Annual real GDP growth, after slowing down
during 2000, has recovered to 4.5 percent by end-2002. Inflation was brought down to 15 percent in
2002, after reaching a peak of 40 percent in 2000. Improved fiscal policies helped to narrow the overall
fiscal deficit (including grants and after arrears clearance) to 6.8 percent of GDP in 2002, almost three
percentage points lower than in 2000. However, owing to the Government's weak expenditure control
and delays in structural reforms, government borrowing continued to crowd out private sector financing
and the stock of domestic debt grew rapidly to 29 percent of GDP by end-2002. Moreover, domestic
interest charges averaged about 25 percent of government recurrent expenditures in 2001-02, well
above the ERSO II target of 16 percent, and continued limiting the scope for funding development
spending. On the external front, as a result from improved terms of trade the country's current account
deficit (including grants) was replaced by a small surplus in 2002 and gross international reserves
strengthened to almost two months of imports. Though not falling within the period covered by the
ERSO II, the encouraging developments in 2003 were admittedly part of a stronger performance after
2002 which encouraged the Bank and other developments partners to support the Ghana Poverty
Reduction Strategy (GPRS).

Beginning in the latter half of 1999, Ghana suffered a major terms-of-trade shock. In 1999-2000, the
country's terms of trade fell by 30 percent, as cocoa prices fell to 27-year lows, gold prices dropped, and
oil prices nearly tripled.   This shock, together with a delay in adjusting fiscal and monetary policy
accordingly, led to a sharp deterioration in macroeconomic performance. While fiscal measures were
implemented in the first half of 2000, including an increase in the VAT and increases in petroleum taxes,



                                                     - 6 -

they proved insufficient to restore confidence. These problems were compounded by delays in the
adjustment of domestic petroleum prices and electricity rates, resulting in an accumulation of large bank
debts at the state-owned monopoly importer, Tema Oil Refinery (TOR), and threatening the financial
viability of the utilities. Fiscal and monetary discipline faltered once again in the run up to the December
2000 elections. As the terms of trade worsened further, loose fiscal and monetary polices led to an
acceleration in inflation (end-of-period) from 11.8 percent in 1999 to 40.5 percent in 2000, and a rapid
exchange rate depreciation (45 percent in 2000). They also led to a run-down in foreign reserves to less
than one month of imports and a build-up in external arrears (US$89 million) by end-2000.

In January 2001, the Government headed by President-elect Kufuor came to power in the first
democratic transfer of power in 22 years. The new Government moved quickly to restore stability,
raising retail petroleum prices by 60 percent in February to reduce operating losses at the state-owned
refinery. Electricity and water tariffs were also raised (in May) to stem losses at these utilities. On the
strength of the Government's macroeconomic and structural reform program for 2001, the third review
under the PRGF arrangement was completed and IDA presented the Third Economic Reform Support
Operation (ERSO III) to the Board. Sustained implementation of tight financial policies during 2001
resulted in significant progress on macroeconomic stabilization. By end-2001, inflation was halved to 21
percent, the exchange rate depreciation slowed down considerably and foreign exchange reserves
recovered to 1.2 months of imports. Net domestic financing of the budget fell to 2.3 percent in 2001, but
measures to strengthen public expenditure control at the commitment stage were delayed and resulted in
a build-up of new domestic expenditure arrears equivalent to almost one percent of GDP. Overall,
business confidence was restored and real GDP growth, which had fallen to 3.7 percent in 2000, rose to
4.2 percent in 2001. As a result of an improved performance in 2001, Ghana achieved the Decision
Point under the Enhanced HIPC Initiative in February 2002.

In 2002, performance was mixed. Real GDP growth rose to an estimated 4.5 percent, as a result of
improved terms of trade and an increase in credit to the private sector. Further gains were made on
inflation (about 15 percent at end-2002), gross foreign reserves continued to rise to almost two months of
imports, and depreciation of the cedi vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar was roughly in line with inflation. Despite
an improved tax administration and reduction in capital spending, weaknesses in public expenditure
management, wage bill hikes and other spending overruns, coupled with failure to implement revenue
measures undermined progress on the fiscal front and led to an overrun in net domestic financing (3.3
percent of GDP above program).           Moreover, failure to adjust petroleum prices contributed to the
Government having to assume TOR debt representing almost 3 percent of GDP and, contrary to
programmed, domestic debt build up continued representing about 29 percent at end-2002. As a result,
the fifth and final review under the 1999-2002 PRGF arrangement could not be completed.

Later in 2002 and early 2003, the Government redoubled its reform efforts. A comprehensive GPRS
was finalized and its 2003 tranche incorporated into the budget. A number of corrective measures were
also implemented. In the energy sector, following the near doubling of petroleum prices in January 2003,
an automatic adjustment formula of retail petroleum prices was made effective in May. Electricity tariffs
were also raised by a combined 72 percent in late 2002 and March 2003 and an automatic tariff
adjustment mechanism was adopted. While later than expected, the initial phase of the budget and
public expenditure management system (BPEMS) was rolled out. New commitments on public sector
reform and on energy policy have also been made. Building on these developments, a new PRGF was
put in place in May 2003 by the IMF and a Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) was approved by
the Bank's Board in June 2003. An assessment in September 2003, indicated that progress on 2003
program implementation was encouraging. Real GDP growth is expected to reach 4.7 percent in 2003
thanks to a record cocoa harvest and higher world prices for cocoa and gold. Also contributing to higher
real GDP growth has been the government's prudent management of fiscal and monetary policy,
expected to maintain inflation within target. The overall fiscal deficit is estimated to decline to 4.3
percent of GDP, and the shortfall between revenues of around 21.4 percent of GDP and expenditures at
29.3 percent of GDP will be entirely covered by foreign credits and grants. Inflation, after peaking in
February 2003, following the sharp increase in the price of petroleum products, gradually eased to an
annualized rate of 27 percent in September, and is expected to close at 22 percent by end-December.




                                                      - 7 -

In terms of fiscal reform, the VAT was successfully re-introduced in December 1998, and increased from
10 to 12.5 percent in 2000. With a view to further rationalize the import tariff regime, in April 2000 a
structure with four rates of 0 percent, 5 percent, 10 percent, and 20 percent was made effective.
However, at the same a 20 percent special import tax (SIT) was adopted for a list of 36 selected
products. The SIT rate was abolished in 2002, thus restoring the top duty rate to an effective level of 20
percent as planned in the context of ERSO II. As for the medium-term program of budgetary reforms,
progress has been much slower than expected. The MTEF needs to be revitalized. As for the BPEMS,
only early in 2003, the Government rolled out the initial phase. Finally, while reduced to about 0.4
percent of GDP in 2002, road arrears had not yet been eliminated.

Structural Reforms

Cocoa Reform:      This component is rated satisfactory. The prime objective of the cocoa sector reform
program under ERSO II was to increase the income received by cocoa farmers, owing to the adjustment
of the purchase price. The announced cocoa buying price rose from 60 percent of the f.o.b. price in
1999 to 65 percent in 2000, satisfying a second tranche condition, and was raised further to 67 percent
by December 2002. Moreover, taxes on cocoa exports were reduced to 16 percent by 2003. Cocoa
exports reached just 394,000 tons in 2001, below the 434,000 tons that were projected. However, for the
season ending in October 2003, estimates point to a production of 470,000 tons.

The introduction of cocoa marketing reforms was less successful. Internal marketing of cocoa was fully
liberalized with the divestiture of the state-owned Produce Buying Company in December 1999. In
August 2000, the Government issued regulations allowing qualifying cocoa licensed buying companies
(LBCs) to export 30 percent of their domestic purchases either directly or through other LBCs. Licenses
were issued to three qualifying firms in 2001, but these firms failed to meet the requirements and the
sector continues to be dominated by COCOBOD. Thus, while external cocoa marketing was achieved in
principle, satisfying a second tranche condition, it has not yet been achieved in practice. Although later
than expected, price discounts on exportable cocoa to domestic processors were abolished in 2003.

Banking Sector Reform: This component is rated unsatisfactory. The Government had some early
successes in reforming the banking sector. Most notably, the licenses of three commercial banks (Bank
for Housing and Construction, the Ghana Cooperative Bank and the Bank for Credit and Commerce),
including two state-owned banks, were revoked for failing to meet capital adequacy requirements set by
the Bank of Ghana (a second tranche condition). Furthermore, a new Bank of Ghana Law was passed
by Parliament in late 2001 strengthening the independence and regulatory role of the central bank.
Moreover, the Bank of Ghana's divested all its remaining shareholdings in the financial institutions it
supervises. Less positively, a Banking Law strengthening the legal framework for bank supervision and
licensing was submitted to Parliament, but has not yet been passed.

Despite these successes, the Government's reform progress in the banking sector is marred by its
inability to divest both the GCB and the NIB. Although supervision of the NIB was strengthened under
ERSO II, the bank was not divested. More importantly, despite longstanding commitments to its
divestiture, the GCB remains in Government hands and has significantly undermined Ghana's economic
performance.     As the main creditor of the TOR, divestiture of the GCB was complicated by the
Government's delay in passing through the increases in petroleum prices in 1999-2000 which resulted in
substantial losses (approximately $200 million) for the state-owned refinery. The ERSO II closing date
was extended twice to move the sale date of the GCB to June 2003. In view of the unlikely completion
of the GCB divestiture before the ERSO II closing date, the Government requested the cancellation of
the GCB tranche in March 2003. At the same time, the Government reaffirmed its commitment to
proceed with the transaction and PEPTA continued to provide support to that effect. In the end, in
August 2003, the Government decided to put the privatization on hold, in reaction to public opinion.

Energy Sector Reform:        This component is rated unsatisfactory.     Although the GOG launched a
comprehensive power sector reform program in 1998, program implementation subsequently stalled. In
June 2000, the Government submitted to Parliament regulations for the operation of the national
interconnected electricity system, thereby satisfying a second tranche condition. This legislation was



                                                    - 8 -

subsequently sent back to the Attorney General, however, and still has not been passed. Moreover, the
restructuring plan for the unbundling of transmission and generation activities of VRA was not completed.
Divestiture of the ECG also proved elusive. Although the divestiture process was initiated in 1999, it
slowed down subsequently, owing in part to the standstill caused by the 2000 political transition. The
Bank and Borrower mutually agreed to cancel this tranche, rather than to seek an extension, and no
progress was achieved to date in the divestiture process. The lack of progress to divest ECG, had an
adverse impact on the Government's fiscal balances owing to both the lack of divestiture receipts and a
shortfall in divestiture-related donor disbursements.

Another disappointing outcome in the energy sector were the delays in achieving full cost recovery in the
energy sector, resulting in substantial losses financed by government borrowing, at the state-owned
utilities. The Government did not increase in a timely manner the price of petroleum products to reflect
the increase in world prices and the exchange rate depreciation. As a result, TOR, suffered substantial
operating losses. The GOG did raise petroleum prices by 30 percent in early 2000, but no further
increases took place until February 2001, causing operating losses at TOR (excluding financial charges)
to reach 5.2 percent of GDP in 2000. In 2001, progress was made by issuing bonds to restructure the
TOR's domestic debt. Also, Parliament approved a petroleum price adjustment formula. This progress
was undermined in 2002, when the Government failed to implement the pricing formula producing
quasi-fiscal losses estimated at 2 percent of GDP.        These losses, which were again financed by the
GCB, directly contravened the ERSO II objectives of both restoring the economic and financial viability
of the public utilities and reducing domestic debt.

Progress was eventually achieved with regard to utility pricing reform, although it took longer than
expected. Following extensive public hearings, a plan for reaching full cost recovery for electricity was
adopted by the PURC in August 2002 and tariffs were increased by 60 percent. A second round of price
increases (12 percent) was also implemented in March 2003. More importantly, the Government has
decided that the authority to change utility tariffs and retail petroleum prices will be exercised by the
PURC and the National Petroleum Tender Board, respectively, using automatic adjustment formulae,
although sustained implementation of these formulae has yet to be established.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Rates of return were not calculated for this adjustment operation.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Rates of return were not calculated for this adjustment operation.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact of ERSO II is rated negligible in view of insufficient progress in
improving the country's ability to make effective use of its human and financial resources. With the
support of three Bank-financed projects (PUFMARP, PSMRP, PEPTA), the Credit aimed at supporting
the Government's efforts to build capacity to implement its reform agenda. However, progress fell short
of expectations in reforming financial management of public expenditures, restructuring ministries and
autonomous agencies, improving public sector management and implementing the divestiture program.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The major external factor undermining Ghana's macroeconomic stability was the significant terms of
trade loss -- equivalent to 4.5 percent of GDP in 1999 and 6.9 percent of GDP in 2000 ­ that began in
1999 and further intensified in 2000. The concomitant depreciation in the exchange rate in 2000 led to a
significant increase in the cedi value of outstanding external debt as a percentage of GDP. In
combination with high domestic interest rates, this rising debt led to a rapid increase in budgetary interest
payments from 5.6 percent of GDP in 1999 to 7.5 percent in 2000.



                                                     - 9 -

Donor financing receipts also fell short of the levels anticipated in 2000, although this was in part owing
to delays in reform implementation, as discussed below.            This external factor contributed to the
Government's decision, in an election year, to resort to domestic bank financing of the deficit.

Finally, the timing and extent to which electricity and water rates were adjusted in response to changes in
world oil prices were not generally subject to Government control. The newly created PURC failed to
perform its independent tariff-setting function, thereby leading to significant losses at the state-owned
utilities. The combined operating losses of the ECG, the Volta River Authority (VRA), and the Ghana
Water Corporation (GWC) amounted to two percent of GDP in 2000. Nonetheless, in light of the fact
that the Government similarly delayed implementing increases in petroleum prices, it is unlikely that the
outcome would have been different had electricity and water tariffs been subject to Government control.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The GoG's policy response to the terms of trade shocks was weak. Fiscal measures were adopted
during the first half of 2000 (notably raising the VAT and petroleum taxes), but only with delay. Similarly,
expenditure overruns in the latter half of the year prevented the fiscal deficit from declining as planned.
Finally, shortcomings in controlling expenditures at the commitment stage and tracking payments led to
an accumulation of arrears that reached nearly 2 percent of GDP in 2000. Consequently, the overall
fiscal deficit (cash basis and after arrears clearance) rose from 8 percent of GDP in 1999 to nearly 10
percent of GDP in 2000.

The GoG's difficulties in financing the deficit resulted also from factors largely subject to government
control. Delays in structural reform implementation, notably in the area of banking and energy sector
reforms, resulted in the postponement or cancellation of some donor disbursements. Likewise, failure to
proceed with the Ghana Telecom divestiture (which was to supply the budget with US$100 million)
meant that privatization receipts were lower than expected. The Government continued reliance on
domestic borrowing to finance the larger financing gap led to a substantial increase in the domestic debt.


Finally, the Government's failure to raise petroleum prices (as seen in Section 4) to reflect increase
international oil prices and the exchange rate depreciation, also contributed to the sharp increase in the
domestic debt .

Overall, the combined increase in domestic financial imbalances, the terms of trade losses, and the
shortcomings in policy responses led to difficulties in the balance of payments. Consequently, external
reserves fell to 0.9 months of exports at end-2000, and there was an accumulation of external payments
arrears of US$89 million.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Continued institutional and human resource weaknesses at the Ministry of Finance have contributed to
recurring problems in effective public expenditure management and budget monitoring.                 These
weaknesses were compounded by the loss of some Ministry personnel following the change in
Government in 2001.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Owing to implementation delays, disbursements under ERSO II were considerably postponed. The
Credit ultimately closed with two tranches totaling SDR 35.3 million undisbursed. The second tranche of
US$50 million was due to be released in June 2000, approximately one year after Credit approval. As it
became clear that the Government could not meet the condition relating to the GCB, this tranche was
divided into a reduced second tranche and a floating GCB tranche in August 2000, thereby enabling the
restructured second tranche to be disbursed against the four criteria that had been satisfied. These were:



                                                     - 10 -

an increase in the price paid to cocoa farmers; liberalization of cocoa exports; presentation of electricity
regulations to Parliament; and withdrawal of the licenses of commercial banks with insufficient capital.
At the same time, the original closing date of June 2001 was extended to June 2002.

At the time, the GCB privatization process was well advanced resulting in expressions of interest by 10
international banks. When the extension of the GCB tranche was granted, it was anticipated that the
divestiture would be completed prior to the closing date of June 2002. In fact, the GOG suspended the
process, only to relaunch it in early 2002 necessitating a second extension of the closing date to June
2003.    This extension was granted as it appeared that the Government had completed the most
time-consuming measures, including selection of a transaction advisor, and because of the broader
context of favorable developments (including restructuring the TOR's debt) in the financial sector.
Ultimately, this tranche was cancelled in March 2003 (effective June 2003). The Government's inability
to privatize the GCB over the 1999-2002 period can be attributed in part to the extensive credits issued
to the TOR and the state-owned utilities which weakened the GCB's finances.              Other important
contributing factors include the abandonment of structural reform efforts in the run-up to the 2000
elections; concerns about the access of rural populations to financial services; domestic opposition; and
an overall slow down in the GoG's divestiture program in 2001-02.

The floating ECG tranche of SDR 14.7 million was also cancelled, effective as of the original June 2001
closing date. Finally, as discussed in Section 3.4, adjustments were made to the Credit's disbursements
to attach and modify IDA reflows.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of reforms implemented during ERSO II is rated unlikely because insufficient progress
in creating a sound macroeconomic environment and lack of progress in tackling needed reforms in the
energy and banking sectors will continue to hamper the country's prospects to make sustainable progress
on growth and poverty reduction.         The recent approval of the GPRS and stronger reforms efforts
thereafter have created renewed hope that the Government will adopt a more active pro-poor and
private-sector led policy stance.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

ERSO II was the second of three structural adjustment operations to Ghana approved between 1998 and
2001. Budgetary support to assist the implementation of the GPRS is being made available by the Bank
through the ongoing Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit, implemented in the context of the Multi-Donor
Budgetary Support framework. This framework links provision of donor budgetary support to satisfactory
implementation of the GPRS.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance during loan identification and design is assessed as satisfactory.         ERSO II was
compatible with the CAS and the Government's medium-term development strategy, and the measures
proposed under ERSO II followed from those undertaken in the context of ERSO I. A comprehensive
team was involved during credit preparation and the Concept Review effectively tightened the loan's
focus. The cocoa, banking, and energy sector reforms were correctly identified as difficult, and the
Credit realistically limited the conditions that would be required for tranche release.

The Credit's appraisal, however, overestimated the Government's willingness to pursue structural
reforms and to introduce macroeconomic adjustments in an election year. It also did not fully factor in
the risk posed by adverse terms of trade developments.



                                                     - 11 -

The credit met the five-month standard for time elapsed between appraisal and board presentation.

7.2 Supervision:

Bank performance during supervision is assessed as unsatisfactory. There was not enough proactivity to
deal with the problems of poor implementation. In this regard, supervision missions were limited in
staffing and there were not enough sector specialists to deal with the areas covered by the credit (energy
and banking particularly), to help sort out options and reinforce performance. Moreover, a more proactive
stance on ERSO II would have used the opportunity of preparing ERSO III to strengthen chances of
more successful implementation of the unfinished agenda.

Project implementation involved no significant deviations from Bank policies and procedures.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance during preparation is considered satisfactory. During project preparation,
successful implementation of the triggers under ERSO I were read as a demonstration of the
Government's willingness to stay on course with the reform program. Efforts by the Government to
increasingly consult with civil society, as occurred with the re-introduction of the VAT in 1998 and the
design of a new medium-term cocoa sector policy in 1999, also demonstrated the Government's
apparent interest in ensuring reform success through extensive stakeholder consultation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government's implementation performance is assessed as unsatisfactory for the reasons outlined in
Section 4. Government's wavering commitment to the reform program was the main contributing factor
to the unsatisfactory outcome of the Credit. While conditions were fulfilled and selected reforms did take
place to release the first and second tranche resources, commitment weakened thereafter. As a result,
major structural reforms critical to unleash the country's development potential, expected to be tackled
with ERSO II support, have yet to be implemented.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agency is rated unsatisfactory. While broadly satisfactory during
project preparation, weaknesses at the Ministry of Finance in public expenditure management and
budget monitoring led to an uneven fiscal performance. At the end of the project, of the four main reform
areas supported by ERSO II, only one is considered to have made satisfactory progress compared to the
agreed program.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

Recent Bank support to adjustment in Ghana has been provided under a series of Economic Reform
Support Operations: ERSO I, II, and III. Progress in the implementation of the ERSOs has been uneven
and experience points to the following main lessons:




                                                    - 12 -

(i) Pressing financial needs was a primary reason to proceed fast with ERSO II and III. Both Credits were
prepared in about 3 months. When there is a need to act fast, there is a basis to be cautious about the
depth of the Government's commitment;

(ii) Despite satisfactory identification of risks, mitigation measures related to the political environment
and capacity may not be able to overcome the problem of an ambitious Credit design.

The above shortcomings can be tackled in an environment such as the one provided by programmatic
lending under the PRSCs in which resource transfer decisions are linked to achievements in the
implementation of the country's medium-term poverty reduction strategies.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 8.
In its comments, the Government states the following major points:

"Though mentioned, there should be a better appreciation of the fact that ERSO II spanned over a period of
two Government eras with different manifestoes for addressing economic growth issues.                 The new
Government in turning the radar around in the economic management of the nation had different emphasis
to the implementation of policies in the Banking Divestiture, Power and Cocoa sectors reform, which were
the primary focus of the ERSO II programme.              The political management of the reforms has been
important as evidenced in the GCB divestiture, and Governments subsequent decision for a revised plan of
action should be favourably acknowledged than be viewed as a lack of commitment on its part.

Further, on assumption of office, the new Government has steadily applied corrective administrative
measures in the formulation, execution and reporting on the budget which have favourably impacted the
macroeconomic and fiscal sectors to warrant a higher rating than marginally satisfactory. Though the
Government could not achieve some of the targets nor implement some of the structural reforms it
inherited, there has been a concerted effort to comprehensively address outstanding issues in their merits,
and in a sustainable manner, to address the root causes rather than just in a cosmetic fashion. Such an
example is the Power Sector Reform Programme including the deregulation of the Petroleum industry.

The Government is currently seeking Parliamentary approval of various bills - the Procurement, Central
Internal Audit Agency, Banking and Payment Systems bills. These bills when enacted will help to further
strengthen Governments continued achievements in the management of public expenditure as well as the
operations of the financial sector."


(b) Cofinanciers:
Not received.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                       - 13 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                                 Table 1: ERSO II - Impact Indicators


 Impact Indicator                             1998      PROJECTED*         ACTUAL         Est.       Proj.

                                                            2001            2001         2002      2003 (a)

 Domestic interest payments as % of total     30.1          16.0             30.5        22.6       25.2
 recurrent expenditure

 Expenditures in health and education as % of 22.0          29.0             26.1         26.5      27.5
 total domestically financed expenditures

 Road arrears as % of GDP                      0.8           0.0             0.1          0.4        0.0

 Cocoa exports (thousand tons)                 382           434             394          367        468

 Non-performing loans in banking system (%      23.0        12.0             19.6         22.7       n.a.
 of total)

 Private investment as % of GDP               11.6          14.8             13.8         13.6      13.8


*As projected in Annex G of the President's Report, ERSO II, May 4, 1999.

(a) As of September 2003.

                           Table 2: Ghana: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators, 1998-2002

                                                 1998     1999     2000     2001    2001   202    2003
                                                                            PR      Est.   Est.   Proj.
                                                                             *                     ***
  (Annual percentage change, unless otherwise
  noted)
 Real GDP                                         4.6      4.4       3.7    6.0      4.2   4.5    4.7
 Consumer price index (end of period)            15.8     11.8      40.5    5.0     21.3  15.2    22.0
 Cedis per U.S. dollar (avg.)                    2,314    2,669    5,431     **     7,179 7,947    ..

 (As percent of GDP, unless otherwise noted)

 Government budget
 Domestic revenue                                18.3     16.4      17.7    19.1    18.1  18.0    21.4
 Total grants                                     2.2      1.7       2.1    1.7      6.9   3.1    4.8
 Total expenditure                               28.6     26.2      27.7    24.4    32.7  26.1    29.3
 Overall balance (including grants) a/           -8.1     -8.0      -9.7    -3.6    -9.0   -6.8   -4.3
 Domestic primary balance                         3.6      0.4       2.6    3.7      3.8   2.0    1.8
 Net domestic financing                           5.0      6.3       8.5    1.3      2.3   4.8    0.0

 Stock of domestic debt                          18.5     21.8      28.9    20.0    26.8  29.0    22.6


 External Sector
 Current account balance b/                      -4.9     -11.6     -8.4    -2.4    -5.3   0.6    -0.4
 External debt service ratio c/                  22.1     21.1      23.0    18.7    18.9  18.4    16.8
 Gross domestic reserves d/                       2.1      1.1       0.9    3.0      1.2    l.9   3.2
  Terms of trade (1990=100, percentage change)   11.1     -13.4    -16.6-    **      4.8   9.1    4.1




                                                   - 14 -

a/ After domestic arrears clearance.
b/ Including official grants.
c/ In percent of exports of goods and non-factor services.
d/ In months of imports of goods and services.

* As projected in the ERSO II President's Report.
** Not projected in the ERSO II President's Report.
*** Assessment as of September 2003.

Sources: ERSO II PR and 2003 IMF Staff Reports (SM/03/136 and EBS/03/161).




                                                       - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Available electronically.




                                      - 16 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 17 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year   Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Preparation
               11/1998                    9     Team Leader (1); Sector                S               S
                                                Manager (1); Economist (2);
                                                Private Sector Specialist (2);
                                                Energy Specialist (1); Public
                                                Sector Specialist (1); Agriculture
                                                Specialist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               April 8-21, 1999           7     Team Leader (1); Sector                S               S
                                                Manager (1); Energy
                                                Specialist (1); Legal
                                                Specialist (1); Economist (2);
                                                Financial Specialist (1)

 Supervision
               09/22/1999                  2    Team Leader (1); Task                  S               S
                                                Manager (1)
               11/20/2000                  2    Economist (1); Task Manager (1)        S               S
               11/20/2000                  4    Economist (1); Previous Task           S               S
                                                Manager (1); New Task Manager
                                                (1); Energy Specialist (1)
               05/25/2001                  1    Economist (1)                          S               S
               06/04/2002                  1    Economist (1)                          S               S
               10/10/2002                  1    Economist (1)                          S               S

 ICR
               June -November             2     Team Leader (1)                        S               S
               2003                             Consultant (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Preparation                                  40                          104,349
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        25                          132,082
  Supervision                                  15                          180,188
  ICR                                           6                           12,500
  Total                                        86                          429,119




                                                - 18 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

President's Report, "Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Ghana," Report No. 17002-GH,
August 13, 1997.

Pre-Appraisal Mission, "Ghana: Second Economic Reform Support Operation (ERSO II)," Aide Memoire
(Revised), December 16, 1998).

President's Report, "Proposed Economic Reform Support Operation of SDR 37.1 Million to the Republic
of Ghana," Report No. P-7247 GH, May 18, 1998.

ERSO II Draft Concept Brief, November 2, 1998.

Minutes of CT Meeting on Draft Concept Brief of ERSO II, November 5, 1998.

ERSO II Concept Brief (Revised), February 1, 1999.

Memorandum, "Ghana ­ Second Economic Reform Support Operation, Regional Operations Committee
Meeting," March 24, 1999.

Back-to-Office Report, ERSO II Appraisal/Negotiations Mission, April 27, 1999.

President's Report, "Proposed Second Economic Reform Support Operation Credit of SDR 132.7 Million
to the Republic of Ghana," Report No. P-7311 GH, May 4, 1999.

Development Credit Agreement, Cr. 3228 GH, Cr. 3228-1 GH, July 9, 1999 (and amendments).

Aide-Memoire, "Ghana: Second Economic Reform Support Mission (ERSO II) ­ Supervision Mission,"
September 22, 1999.

Aide-Memoire (draft), "Ghana: Second Economic Reform Support Mission (ERSO II) ­ Supervision
Mission," March 14, 2000.

President's Report, "Country Assistance Strategy for Ghana," Report No. 20185-GH, June 29, 2000.

President's Memorandum, "Ghana:         Second Economic Reform Support Operation -- Proposed
Supplemental Credit to Ghana for the Second Economic Reform Support Operation," August 16, 2000.

President's Memorandum, "Proposed Amendment to the Credit Agreement and Supplemental Credit (Cr.
No. 3228-3-GH)," IDA/R2000-154, August 18, 2000.

ERSO II, Second Tranche Release Memorandum, IDA/SecM2000-524, September 3, 2000.

Minutes of ROC Meeting on Ghana CAS Progress Report and ERSO III Concept Note, May 3, 2001.

President's Report, "Proposed Third Economic Reform Support Operation Credit of SDR 87.7 Million to
the Republic of Ghana," Report No. P 7471-GH, June 2, 2001.

Development Credit Agreement, ERSO III, July 27, 2001.

"Ghana: Enhanced HIPC Debt Initiative - President's Memorandum and Recommendation and Decision
Point Document", Report No. P-7509-GH, February 4, 2002.

Draft Memorandum, "ERSO II ­ Proposed Waiver of Conditionality for Release of Third Tranche," June
16, 2002.




                                                 - 21 -

Memorandum, "ERSO II ­ Extension of Closing Date," June 21, 2002.

Aide-Memoire, "Ghana ­ First Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-1)," World Bank Appraisal
Mission, April 28-May 2, 2003.

President's Report, "Program Document for a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 63.9 Million and
Proposed Grant in the Amount of SDR 26.9 Million to Ghana for a Poverty Reduction Support Credit",
May 29, 2003.

"The Republic of Ghana: Joint IDA-IMF Staff Assessment of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper,"
March 4, 2003, Report No. 25495-GH

IMF, "Ghana: Selected Issues," IMF Staff Country Report No. 2, January 2000.

Ghana: Economic Development in a Democratic Environment, IMF Occasional Paper #199, 2000.

---, "Ghana: 2001 Article IV Consultation and Third Review Under the Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility and Request for Waiver of Performance Criteria ­ Staff Report," IMF Country Report No. 01/41,
August 2001.

---, "Ghana: Fourth Review Under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility, Requests for Waiver of
Performance Criteria and for Extension of the Commitment Period ­ Staff Report and Staff Statement'"
IMF Country Report No. 02/38, March 2002.

---, "Ghana ­ Staff Report for the 2003 Article IV Consultation, and Requests for a Three-Year
Arrangement Under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility and for Additional Interim Assistance
Under the Enhanced Initiative for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries," EBS/03/42, April 3, 2003 (and
Supplement 1, April 25, 2003 and Correction 1 of May 5, 2003).

---, "Ghana ­ Staff Report for the 2003 Article IV Consultation, and Requests for a Three-Year
Arrangement Under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility and for Additional Interim Assistance
Under the Enhanced Initiative for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries," EBS/03/42,

---, Ghana ­ Selected Issues and Statistical Appendix," SM/03/136, April 15, 2003.

Leith, J. Clark and Soderling, Ludvig, "Ghana: Long-Term Growth, Atrophy, and Recovery," a report for
the OECD Development Centre Project on Emerging Africa, June 2000.




                                                 - 22 -

Additional Annex 8. Government Comments




                                     - 23 -

Additional Annex 8. Government Comments cont'




                                     - 24 -

- 25 -

