Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3228 GH 
3228–1 GH
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Economic Reform Support Operation)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 9, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3228 GH 
3228-1 GH 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 9, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter (Letter of Development Policy 
or LDP), dated April 29, 1999, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s 
economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of 
the Program during the execution thereof; and 
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications thereof set forth below, (the General Conditions) 
Page  2
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made”;
(b)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12. ‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets 
the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 183 of 
the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, and 
“Participating Countries” means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 
2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of 
these General Conditions.”
(e)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawal 
shall be made (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payments 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by 
a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.” 
(f)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted. 
(g)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read. 
“(c)
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”
(h)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 
9.07, and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:  
(a)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(b)
“ECG” means the Electricity Company of Ghana Limited, registered under 
the Borrower’s Companies Code 1961 (Act 179), as amended to the date of this 
Agreement; 
Page  3
(c)
“Fiscal Year” means the period starting January 1 and ending December 31;  
(d)
“GCB” means the Ghana Commercial Bank, registered under the Borrower’s 
Companies Code 1961 (Act 179), as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(e)
“Bank of Ghana” means the Bank of Ghana established pursuant to the Bank 
of Ghana Law 1992 (PNDC Law 291), as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(f)
“fob” means free on board;
(g)
“IDA Reflows” means the amount of the allocation specified in Section 
2.01 of this Agreement and made by the Association for the benefit of the Borrower 
under the Association’s Fiscal Year 1999 allocations of IDA Reflows set forth in 
Resolution IDA/R98/147;
(h)
“Tranche” means any of the following:  the First Tranche, the Second 
Tranche or the Floating Tranche, as such terms are hereinafter defined; 
(i)
“First Tranche” means the Tranche of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
to Category (1) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(j)
“Second Tranche” means the Tranche of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to Category (2) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(k)
“Floating Tranche” means the Tranche of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to Category (3) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
(l)
“offer for sale” means that the Borrower has (i) employed an investment 
advisor under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; (ii) prepared a 
prospectus or information memorandum; (iii) solicited bids to purchase either directly 
or through advertisements as appropriate; (iv) evaluated technical proposals; and 
(v) publicly opened financial proposals all in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred and thirty-two million, seven hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 132,700,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the 
proceeds of the Credit, with each withdrawal valued by the Association as of the date 
of such withdrawal, and which includes an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
one million, three hundred and twenty-seven thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
1,327,000) representing an IDA Reflow allocation made by the Association. 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn 
from the Credit Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the 
Program.  
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Page  4
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as  may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
August 1 and February 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each August 1 and February 1, commencing August 1, 2009 and ending February 1, 2039. 
Each installment to, and including the installment payable on, February 1, 2019 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association, and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
Page  5
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Governor of the Bank of Ghana is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts the Bank of Ghana with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal 
applications under the Credit and for the collection of the documents and other 
evidence to be furnished to the Association in support of such applications. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.  
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01.  Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the 
Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of\0bSection 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box M.40 Accra Ghana
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECONOMICON
2205 MIFAEPGH
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Accra, Ghana, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By /s/ Richard Kwame Peprah 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Peter Harrold
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the 
Credit and Excluded Expenditures
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the table 
below sets forth the amounts allocated to specific Tranches to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account:
  Amount of the Credit
      % of the
Page  7
Allocated (Expressed in
Expenditures to be
Categories
     SDR Equivalent)
      Financed
(1)
First Tranche
59,000,000
100% 
(2)
Second Tranche
59,000,000
100% 
(3)
Floating Tranche
14,700,000
100%
      ___________
TOTAL
      132,700,000
      ===========
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above and for the purposes of 
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance any of the following expenditures: 
(a) 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(b)
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any 
national or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or loan;
(c)
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of 
the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the 
SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower: \0c
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated 
materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum
group metals (except watches and 
watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold
ores and concentrates)
Page  8
(d)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption; 
(e)
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for the purposes of 
this paragraph, the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the 
manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or 
international agreements to which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods 
designated as environmentally hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association);  
(f)
expenditures (i) in the territories of any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or 
(ii) on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such 
payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
(g)
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation.
3.
No withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account under Category (2) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the amount specified in Category (1) has 
been withdrawn by the Borrower, and the Association shall be satisfied after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association: 
(i)
with the fulfillment of the requirements of Part A of Schedule 2 
to this 
Agreement; and 
(ii)
that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement have been 
taken in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 above, withdrawals may be made by 
the Borrower in respect of Category (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule 
at any time when the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association, that the requirements of Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been 
fulfilled, and in addition, the actions described in Part C of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
5.
If, after any of the exchange of views referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 above, 
the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the requirements of Part 
A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or the actions taken under Parts B or C of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement, as the case may be, are not satisfactory and, within ninety (90) 
days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have met the requirements of Part A of 
said\0bSchedule 2 or taken the actions under Parts B or C of said Schedule 2, as the 
case may be, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Section 3.01(a) of this Agreement
Part A: 
1.
The macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the 
objectives of the Program. 
2.
The Borrower has achieved progress, satisfactory to the Association, in the 
carrying out of the Program.
Part B:
Conditions for the Release of the Second Tranche
Page  9
1.
The Borrower has: 
(a)
increased cocoa farmers’ share in the fob price to sixty-five percent in 
the 1999/2000 crop season in accordance with paragraph 23 of the LDP; 
(b)
issued instructions, satisfactory to the Association, to allow  
qualifying cocoa-licensed buying companies to export 30% of their domestic purchases, 
starting with the 2000/2001 crop season in accordance with paragraph 23 of the LDP; 
(c)
in accordance with paragraph 35 of the LDP, presented to Parliament a 
legislative instrument, satisfactory to the Association, establishing electricity 
regulations for the operation of the national interconnected electricity system; 
(d)
offered for sale at least 30% of the shares of the GCB to a strategic 
investor and has placed the remaining government shares on the stock exchange in 
accordance with paragraph 32 of the LDP. 
2.
The Bank of Ghana has withdrawn the licenses of all commercial banks which do 
not meet capital adequacy requirements set by the Bank of Ghana, in accordance with 
paragraph 30 of the LDP.
Part C:
Condition for the release of the Floating Tranche
Following procedures satisfactory to the Association, the Borrower has offered 
for sale, or has caused ECG to offer for sale, shares in ECG’s electricity 
distribution business unit(s) to strategic investor(s) in accordance with paragraph 36 
of the LDP.
