Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3228-2 GH 
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Economic Reform Support Operation)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 28, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3228-2 GH
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Second Economic Reform Support Operation) dated July 9, 1999 (the 
Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of providing support during the 
execution of the Borrower’s program designed to achieve structural adjustment of the 
Borrower’s economy;
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance in the support of the Program by increasing the amount made available under 
the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 900,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Page  2
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as 
follows:
(a)
a new paragraph (m) is added reading:
“(m) ‘Amending Agreement’ means the Agreement Amending the Development 
Credit 
Agreement (Second Economic Reform Support Operation) between the 
Borrower and the 
Association, dated June 28, 2000.”
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred thirty 
three million six hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 133,600,000) 
(the Credit), which includes: (a) an original 
amount in various currencies 
equivalent to one hundred thirty two million seven hundred 
thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 132,700,000); and (b) an additional amount in various 
currencies equivalent to nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 900,000) 
(the Additional 
Financing).”
Section 1.03. Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as 
follows:
(a)
Paragraph (b) is amended by substituting the phrase “paragraphs (b) and 
(c)” by "paragraphs (b), (c) and (d)”.
(b)
The following paragraph (d) is added at the end of said Section 2.02 
reading as follows:
“(d) After a date twelve months from the date of the Amending Agreement, 
no 
withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account in respect of 
expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Additional Financing.  At 
any time after such date, the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Additional 
Financing from the Credit Account 
or any part thereof.”
Section 1.04. Paragraph (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended by adding after the term “cancelled” the following proviso 
reading:
“and that any commitment charge on the Additional Financing shall accrue 
from a date 
sixty days after the date of the Amending Agreement.” 
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
Page  3
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the Accra, Ghana, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By /s/ Richard Kwame Peprah 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Peter Harrold 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the 
Credit and Excluded Expenditures
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the table 
below sets forth the amounts allocated to specific Tranches to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account:
Amount of the
   Allocated
  % of the
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
First Tranche
  59,000,000
100%
(2)
Second Tranche
  59,900,000
100%
(3)
Floating Tranche
  14,700,000
100%
TOTAL
 133,600,000
