Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16001-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KENYA
ENERGY SECTOR REFORM AND POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 21, 1997
Water, Urban and Energy 1 Division
Eastern and Southern Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit   =    Kenya Shilling (K Sh)
USS 1.00        =    K Sh 56 (As of January 1996)
K Sh i 00       =    US$0.01,
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
I Kilovolt (RV)                      1,000 Volts
I Megawatts (MW)             =       1,000 Kilowatts (kW)
I Gigawatt hour (Gwh)                I million kilowatt hours (kwh)
I ton of oil equivalent (toe)    =  about 7 bbl of crude oil
1 barrel (bbl)               =      0.16 cubic meters
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CPDM             Chief Project Development Manager
EA               Environmental Assessment
EAPLC            Eastern Africa Power and Lighting Company
EIB              European Investment Bank
ERB              Electricity Regulatory Board
ERR              Economic Rate of Retum
ESAF             Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESMAP            Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme
GoK              Govemment of Kenya
ICB              Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA              International Development Association
IDC              Interest During Construction
IMF              Intemational Monetary Fund
IPP              Independent Power Producer
ISG             Implementation Support Group
KICM             Kenya Association of Manufacturers
KffW             Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufdau
KPC              Kenya Power Company Limited
KPL              Kenya Pipeline Company Limited
KPLC            Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited
KPRL             Kenya Petroleum Refinery Company Limited
KVDA             Kerio Valley Development Authority
KWS              Kenya Wildlife Services
LPG              Liquefied Petroleum Gas
LRMC             Long Run Marginal Cost
MOE              Ministry of Energy
MOF              Ministry of Finance
NCB             National Competitive Bidding
NGO              Non-Govemmental Organization
NOCK             National Oil Corporation of Kenya
NPV             Net Present Value
OECF            Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
SDR             Special Drawing Rights
SOE             Statement of Expenditure
TARDA           Tana River Development Authority
TRDC            Tana and Athi Rivers Development Authority
UEB             Uganda Electricity Board
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
Vice President          Callisto E. Madavo
Director                Harold E. Wackman
Technical Manager       Jeffrey Racki
Team Leader             Joel J. Maweni



KENYA
ENERGY SECTOR REFORM AND POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
1. ENERGY SECTOR AND THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT .......................................................I
A. MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT ..............................................................1
B. THE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE ECONOMY ..............................................................2
C. ENERGY RESOURCES ..............................................................3
2. ENERGY SECTOR ORGANIZATION ..............................................................6
A. POLICY INSTITUTIONS ..............................................................6
B. ELECTRICITY SUB-SECTOR ..............................................................6
C. PETROLEUM SUB-SECTOR ..............................................................9
3. ENERGY MARKETS, PRICING AND KEY ISSUES .............................................................                                                        10
A. THE ENERGY MARKETS - ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND SUPPLY ....................................................... 10
B. ENERGY PRICING .............................................................                                                                           15
C. KEY ISSUES IN THE ENERGY SECTOR .............................................................                                                          16
D. WORLD BANK GROUP INVOLVEMENT .............................................................                                                            21
4. THE PROJECT .............................................................                                                                                  23
A. PROJECT ORIGIN, RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES .............................................................                                                 23
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION .............................................................                                                                     24
C. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .............................................................                                                             27
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .............................................................                                                                  28
E. PARTICIPATION .............................................................                                                                           29
F. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS .............................................................                                                                   29
5. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .............................................................                                                                           31
A. THE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK .............................................................                                                      31
B. PAST AND PRESENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE .............................................................                                                  32
C. PROJECTED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE .............................................................                                                         36
D. AN ACTION PLAN FOR FINANCIAL REFORM IN THE ELECTRICITY SUBSECTOR .............................. 37
6. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ............................................................. 39
A. OVERALL .............................................................                                                                                 39
B. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS .............................................................                                                             39
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN .............................................................                                                             40
D. PROCUREMENT .............................................................                                                                              41
E. DISBURSEMENTS .............................................................                                                                           43
F. ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING .............................................................                                                                 44
G. MONITORING AND EVALUATION .............................................................                                                                44
7. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND RISKS .                                                                    ............................................... 45
A. OVERALL ........................................................ 45



B. NEED FOR THE PROJECT, ITS SIZE AND TIMING .....................................................  46
C. ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS .................................................. 47
D. RISK MITIGATION ......................................................           49
E. FISCAL IMPACT AND SUSTAINABILITY .....................................................  50
8. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..................................................... 52
ANNEXES
Annex 2.1      Action Plan for Restructuring the Power Subsector
Annex 3.1      Energy Balance
Annex 3.2      Electricity Generation, Sales and Losses
Annex 3.3      Available Generating Capacity and Generation in FY1994/95
Annex 3.4      Letter of Sector Development Policy
Annex 4.1      Documents Available in the Project Files
Annex 4.2      Description of the Sector Restructuring and Reform Component
Annex 4.3      Description of the Efficiency Improvement Component
Annex 4.4      Description of the Power System Expansion and Rehabilitation Component
Annex 4.5      Description of the Geothermal Resource Development Component
Annex 4.6      Rural and Household Energy Development Strategy
Annex 4.7      Project Component by Financier
Annex 4.8      Project Component and Expenditures by Year
Annex 5.1      Financial Analysis
Annex 6.1      Table of Contents for the Borrower's Project Implementation Plan
Annex 6.2      Summary Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 6.3      List of IDA-financed Activities
Annex 6.4      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 6.5      Supervision Plan and Staff Input
Annex 7.1      Lease-Cost Generation Expansion Plan
Annex 7.2      Details of Economic Analysis and Assumptions
Annex 7.3      Estimated Willingness to Pay for Electricity
Annex 7.4      Quantitative Risk Analysis
Annex 7.5      Fiscal Analysis
Annex 7.6      Performance Indicators
IBRD MAP No. 28165
This report is based on the findings of Bank appraisal and post appraisal missions in November 1994 and
January 1996, respectively. The mission members included: Mr. Joel Maweni (Task Manager), Mangesh
Hoskote (Power Restructuring Specialist/Consultant), R. I. GopalKrishnan (Senior Procurement
Specialist), Paivi Koljonen (Economist), Rowena Martinez (Operations Analyst), T. S. Nayar (Principal
Chemical Engineer), Said Al Habsy (Senior Legal Counsel), J. Koenig (Consultant, Geothermal Specialist),
A. Posada (Consultant, Power Engineer), K. Zaki (Consultant, Petroleum Exploration Specialist), S. Dhar
(Consultant, Power Engineer), G. Calderon (Consultant, Geothermal Specialist), J. Sasia (Operations
Officer). Peer reviewers for the project were Messrs. B. Thiam, D. Jordan and C. Algandona. Secretarial
support and report production were done by Mmes: N. Jones and V. Fofanah.



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
ENERGY SECTOR REFORM AND POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      The Republic of Kenya
Implementing Agency:           Ministry of Energy (MOE)
Beneficiaries:                 Kenya Power Company (KPC); Kenya Power and
Lighting Company (KPLC)
Poverty:                       Not applicable.
Amount                         SDR 86.6 million (US$125.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                         Standard IDA Terms with a 40-year maturity
Commitment Fee:                Standard (variable rate between 0 and 0.5% of the
undisbursed credit balance set annually by the Executive
Directors of IDA)
Onlending Terms:               SDR 72.4 million (US$104.6 million equivalent) and
SDR 8.1 million (US$11.7 million equivalent) would
be onlent to KPC and KPLC respectively at 7.7% with a
repayment period of 20 years, including five years' grace.
KPC and KPLC would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Financing Plan:                See Schedule A
Net Present Value:             US$ 343.0 million
Staff Appraisal Report:        Report No. 16001-KE
Map:                           IBRD No. 28165
Project ID                     1344






- 1 -
1. ENERGY SECTOR AND THE MACROECONOMIC
CONTEXT
A.   MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
1.1   Kenya's 25 million people had a per capita income of US$260 in 1994 (at current prices
and exchange rate). Kenya's economy depends on agriculture, which employs 70 percent of the
labor force and contributes more than one quarter of GDP. Coffee and tea are the main
agricultural products and account for almost one half of merchandise exports. The service sector,
including tourism (a leading foreign exchange earner), accounts for half of GDP and is an
important source of employment. The manufacturing sector is relatively developed and
diversified, and contributes about 13 percent of GDP.
1.2   Recent Economic Developments. The period 1990-1993 was marked by a sharp decline
in all the major macroeconomic performance indicators. Agricultural production was adversely
affected by unfavorable weather conditions. External imbalances worsened as a consequence of
the Gulf crisis during 1990-1991, a general deterioration in terms of trade, and the decision of
multilateral and bilateral donors, in November 1991, to withhold aid to Kenya because of
concerns about poor macroeconomic performance, governance and multiparty democracy.
1.3   Since the middle of 1993, the Government's sustained effort to tighten fiscal and
monetary policy has been effective in stabilizing the economy and contributing to the revival of
economic growth. GDP grew by 3 percent in 1994 and by 5 percent in 1995. The fiscal deficit
(exclusive of grants) has sharply reduced to 1.4 percent of GDP in 1995 and annual inflation
declined from a peak of 62 percent in January 1994 to 6.9 percent in December 1995. With
respect to structural reforms, the Government has eliminated foreign exchange controls and most
controls on exports and imports. The liberalization of the maize market in December 1993 and
the petroleum sub-sector in October 1994 abolished all price controls. Since 1992, the
Government has also been implementing a major civil service reform program that has trimmed
the sector by over 40,000 since July 1993. However, progress on parastatal reform has been slow
until recently.
1.4   The Government has outlined its reform program over the period 1996-1998 in a Policy
Framework Paper, which was distributed to the Board on February 23, 1996. This document
highlights poverty reduction as the principal objective. The reform program is being
supplemented by a new one-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) arrangement
with the IMF and an IDA Structural Adjustment Credit.



- 2 -
1.5   As noted in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (discussed by the Board on January
30, 1996), an acceleration of economic growth is needed for poverty reduction in Kenya. Thus,
the key development challenge facing the Government over the next few years would be to create
the conditions for rapid and sustained growth which would reduce unemployment and poverty
significantly. Given its relatively strong human resource endowment, Kenya has good prospects
for export-led economic growth in excess of 5 percent per year, over the medium term, and even
higher growth rates could be achieved in the longer term. However, in order to achieve these
growth rates, which require rapid growth in manufactured exports, investment in basic
infrastructure, including energy, must increase.
B.   THE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE ECONOMY
1.6   The energy sector plays a critical role in the development of the economy. Adequate and
reliable supplies of power and energy are indispensable for economic growth, which is central for
poverty reduction - current shortage of power supplies is seriously affecting economic activity.
The energy sector also contributes significantly to the financing of public expenditures through
petroleum and income taxes. On the other hand, crude oil and petroleum products imports have a
significant impact on the balance of payment account and the sector draws on foreign export
earnings to service its external debt.
1.7   Because of the long time it has taken to reach agreemnet between the Government and the
donors on sector policies, investment in new power generation capacity has been delayed. As a
result, the power system is not adequate to meet demand. Peak load shedding has become
unavoidable and has increased from about 40 MW (6 percent of peak) in FY93/94 to about 75
MW (10 percent of peak) in FY94/95. During FY94/95 the Kenya Power and Lighting
Company Limited (KPLC) implemented a daily load shedding program, which curtailed supplies
during the morning and evening peak hours. Although many industries shifted loads to off-peak
periods in consultation with KPLC, and were thus able to reduce the economic impact of the
rationing, continuous processing industries had limited possibilities to shift their consumption
and therefore suffered losses in output. Although exact data on the quantity of unserved energy
demand is not available, the comparison of the forecast and actual sales for FY94/95 indicate a
figure of about 190 GWh. Assuming conservatively that the cost of unserved energy demand is
US$0.25 per kWh, which is comparable to the cost of running a private diesel generator, the cost
of energy shortages could be estimated at about US$50 million in FY1995. The rehabilitation of
existing plant is providing some relief in 1996, but, as the earliest possible date for
commissioning new generating capacity is FY1997/98, the gap between demand and supply
would grow wider, resulting in increased private sector costs and disincentives for new
investment.
1.8  In terms of contribution to the exchequer, the sector contributes revenues in the form of
taxes from the importation and sale of petroleum products, and corporate taxes and dividends. In
FY94/95, the sector generated about KSh 16,831 million (US$ 300 million) in fiscal revenue,
which was about 13 percent of total central Government revenue. About 80 percent of this was
from petroleum taxes.



- 3 -
1.9   On the expenditure side, the net petroleum import bill in 1995 was about US$270 million.
This means that Kenya used about 20 percent of its merchandise export earnings to pay for
petroleum - mostly crude oil imports. In addition, because of its high degree of monopoly
power, the refinery is able to pass on the costs of inefficient operations to the consumers. This
cost is estimated at about US$22 million per annum in the form of high prices for petroleum
products. Deregulation of the petroleum sub-sector, which is partially supported by the proposed
project would benefit consumers through efficient market-determined prices.
1.10  Because of Government policy of low tariffs until recently, the power sub-sector has
depended on Government support for financing some of its investment programns. With the tariff
reforms and other efficiency improvements initiated in the course of the preparation of the
project, the power sub-sector's financial performance would improve significantly, thereby
eliminating the requirement for future Government expenditure support.
C.   ENERGY RESOURCES
1.11  Kenya's known energy resources include hydro and geothermal power, biomass, wind
and solar energy. Exploration is in progress for hydrocarbons, but to date no significant reserves
have been discovered.
1.12 Hydropower. The hydroelectric potential that would be economic to develop for the grid
including installed capacity, exceeds 1,400 MW, with an annual average generation potential of
about 6,000 GWh. Tana and Turkwell Rivers have the largest potential. Hydro potential also
exist on other rivers, including the Ewaso Ngiro, Sondu, Nzoia, Nyando, Arror, and Athi. The
Sondu basin has been the subject of two studies towards the multipurpose development of the
basin's hydropower and irrigation potential. Consultants' reports have indicated that the
development of the Miriu Falls site on the Sondu River for power generation would be
economic. A feasibility study and economic evaluation was prepared under the Geothermal
Development and Pre-Investment Project (Cr. 1973-KE).
1.13  Geothermal Power. Potential geothermal sites are located in the Rift Valley which runs
from the border with Tanzania in the south to Ethiopia in the north. There are three major areas
of geothermal activity: Olkaria, Eburru, and Lake Bogoria, with possible reserves measured in
thousands of megawatts of electric generation capacity. The Olkaria field near Lake Naivasha,
about 100 km west of Nairobi, contains proven reserves of 350 MW, which are the basis for
power generation at the existing Olkaria Power Plant, and probable reserves of 600 MW at
exploration sites. The Eburru prospect, 30 km north of Olkaria, contains probable reserves in the
order of 100 MW. Several thermal manifestations in the Rift Valley between Eburru and the
northern border of Kenya indicate the existence of extensive, but as yet unquantified additional
energy resources. The Geothermal Development and Pre-Investment Project (Cr. 1973-KE)
assisted in drilling of about 30 production wells to deliver steam to the Olkaria I and II Power
Plants.
1.14  Biomass Resources. Kenya has large and diverse forest resources, though there is
pressure on forests around major population centers. The main biomass energy is woodfuel --



- 4 -
firewood and charcoal -- which is the major source of energy in Kenya, accounting for about 70-
75 percent of total energy use. Firewood is consumed by rural households and industries,
particularly for tea drying, while charcoal provides cooking energy for many urban households
and small commercial establishments. The only non-woody biomass resource which is being
utilized on a proven commercial scale is sugar cane bagasse. The Kenya sugar industry produces
about 35,000 tons of bagasse annually which, supplemented by fuelwood or fuel oil, is used to
raise steam for producing sugar cane and generating about 25 GWh of electricity from turbines
installed at individual sugar mills. The efficiency of power production from bagasse is low and
could be increased with the introduction of pre-drying, palletizing and other measures, which
could create surpluses to produce power for additional uses such as pumping water for irrigation
or for sale to a power company. The project would provide financing for a Renewable/Household
Energy Survey to provide the analytical basis for formulating a sustainable renewable/household
energy strategy. Further, a rural electrification master plan is currently being carried out to
explore alternative strategies for meeting rural power needs.
1.15  Solar and Wind. Kenya has a large potential of solar and wind energy, which have
economic potential for meeting energy requirements particularly for rural communities because
of the high cost of traditional network electrification. Indeed, Kenya has utilized its solar energy
potential more successfully than most African countries. According to an ESMAP study, at
least 20,000 photovoltaic units (PV) have been sold by the private sector since 1987. The
systems have been sold mainly to rural middle class households, which are well integrated into
the cash economy, but live far away from KPLC's power lines.' A unique feature is also the
predominant role played by the country's private sector. There are currently eight Nairobi-based
companies who supply the PV market, each with scores of agents in rural areas, to market,
install, and maintain the systems. To promote the use of PV technology, the Government has
over the past couple of years reduced the level of import tariffs and value-added tax on most PV
equipment. The proposed project would further assist the Government to maintain a competitive
tariff and tax policy for renewable energy equipment, and to establish guidelines for equipment
quality. These policy actions are supplemented by an ESMAP-financed micro-solar project,
initiated in 1995. The objective of the project is to overcome hurdles to wider adoptation of solar
energy technology: it would investigate innovative financing options for lower income
households, disseminate small solar powered lanterns on a commercial basis in rural villages and
evaluate technical product performance and customer satisfaction. In addition, the Arid Lands
Development Project, approved in November 1995 (Cr. No. 27970) would support renewable
energy. For example, if a community microproject on water would use a solar or a wind-driven
pump the project would finance it. To promote renewable energy technologies, the district
mobile extension teams would sensitize communities and other development actors on the
potential of renewable sources of energy and train community personnel in maintenance of the
facilities.
1.16  Wind energy is used on a limited scale, mainly for irrigation: currently some 200 water
pumps are in operation, many of them manufactured locally. In addition, KPLC operates a 200
Further information about photovoltaics in Kenya can be found in the ESMAP report "Photovoltaic Power to
the People - The Kenya Case", January 1994 (no report number).



- 5 -
kW wind turbine which, in 1995, provided 1.1 GWh to the grid, and a 350 kW hybrid
wind/diesel system to serve the electricity needs of the surrounding community.
1.17  Hydrocarbons. No commercial petroleum resource has yet been discovered. Based on
evidence available from drilling by privately owned oil companies in Kenya and in neighboring
countries, Kenya's petroleum prospects are rated modest, but in view of the sparse data coverage
its petroleum prospects remain to be fully evaluated. The most attractive areas at present are the
Rift-related structural basins in the interior. Also of interest is the coastal margin basin where the
majority of Kenya's exploration to date has taken place. The Bank has supported Kenya in
promoting petroleum exploration by private companies, most recently through the Petroleum
Exploration Technical Assistance Credit 1 675-KE.



- 6 -
2. ENERGY SECTOR ORGANIZATION
A.   POLICY INSTITUTIONS
2.1   The Ministry of Energy (MOE) is responsible for energy policy formulation and
oversight of the operations of the organizations in the power and petroleum sub-sectors.
MOE is also concerned with the development of power, petroleum exploration and
supply, and the development of biomass and other new and renewable energy resources.
Until recently the Ministry of Finance (MOF), in consultation with MOE, established
prices and tax rates for both power and petroleum products. Since October 1994,
petroleum products retail prices have been market-determined.
B.   ELECTRICITY SUB-SECTOR
2.2   Sub-sector Institutions. Three limited liability companies, and two regional
development authorities are currently operating in the power sub-sector: the Kenya Power
Company (KPC), the Kenya Power and Lighting Company (KPLC), the Tana River
Development Company (TRDC), the Tana and Athi Rivers Development Authority
(TARDA) and the Kerio Valley Development Authority (KVDA). The salient features of
these institutions are:
(a)   KPLC: KPLC was established in 1983, to become the successor of the East
Africa Power and Lighting Company (EAPLC), a private company founded in
1922. KPLC is owned by the GoK (51.49%), Kenya residents (41.13%) and
nonresidents (7.38%). It is the only institution licensed to distribute electricity,
and therefore, owns all the distribution facilities. It also owns some small
hydroelectric plants, some thermal plants and transmission lines. It operates the
generation and transmission system and manages both KPC and TRDC, as well as
the generation facilities of TARDA and KVDA. It is responsible for the
preparation of the sub-sector's expansion programs and is the GoK's executing
agency for designing, constructing and operating rural electrification schemes.
(b)   KPC: KPC was created in 1954, to import electricity from Uganda for sale by the
EAPLC. KPC is wholly owned by the GoK, has no staff of its own and is
managed by KPLC under a management contract. It owns the Olkaria geothermal
power station, two small hydro plants (Tana and Wanji, 14 and 7 MW,
respectively), the interconnection line with Uganda and other transmission lines.
The power generated from KPC's plants and imported power from Uganda is sold



- 7 -
to KPLC at cost (includes debt service, operation, maintenance and development
surcharge to meet the local contribution for new investment).
(c)   TRDC: TRDC was created in 1964 as a separate company to develop the
hydroelectric potential of the Tana River. TRDC is wholly Government owned
and is also managed by KPLC. The company owns three power stations, Gitaru
(145 MW), Kamburu (92 MW) and Kindaruma (44 MW).
(d)   TARDA: This is a development authority fully owned by GoK. It was created in
1974 for the integral development of several basins in the Tana river including
their hydroelectric, irrigation, fisheries and associated tourism potential. It owns
the Masinga (40 MW) and Kiambere (144 MW) power stations and their
associated transmission lines. KPLC operates and maintains the power facilities
and buys power in bulk from TARDA. Under the financing of Kiambere, KPLC
is obligated to cover the cost of debt service on higher terms than those provided
to the Government by lenders. The difference was originally intended to provide
TARDA with financing for its non-power activities. In 1988 the GoK instructed
KPLC to direct its payments to the Treasury and to base them on the terms at
which the loans had been provided to the GoK. To compensate TARDA for the
loss of revenue, since 1994 the Treasury and KPLC have provided support to
TARDA.
(e)   KVDA: This is also a development authority fully owned by GoK. It was created
in 1979 with similar objectives to TARDA. It implemented the Turkwell Hydro
Plant (106 MW), completed in 1991 (para 3.18(c)).
2.3   The complexity of the power sub-sector organization, especially the overlapping
financial functions among the entities, has given rise to disputes on issues of assets
ownership and responsibility for debt service. The GoK has therefore decided to
restructure the sub-sector with a view to creating commercial-type relationships among
the companies. The restructuring has separated management of generation assets from
that of transmission and distribution assets. The Turkwell Hydropower Plant will be
transferred to the generation company at a cost reflecting replacement cost. The action
plan for reorganization of the power sub-sector which has been agreed with the
Government is shown in Annex 2.1.
2.4   As of May 1993, KPLC, the only institution with staff, was over-staffed. It had
10,616 employees, serving 300,000 customers giving a customer/employee ratio of 28:1.
In early 1994, agreement was reached between KPLC and the Bank for KPLC to improve
its customer/employee ratio to at least 45:1 by the end of 1995. By December 1994 the
customer/employee ratio had increased to 35.4:1 and currently stands at 50:1. Since
KPLC was understaffed at the professional level and over-staffed at other levels, these
improvements have been achieved through contracting out non-core services and staff
reductions,



- 8 -
2.5   Applicable Legislation and its Impact on the Sub-Sector: The limited liability
companies are governed by the Companies Act, and as such should be able to operate as
commercial concerns. As part of the sector reforms, KPLC and KPC were recently
exempted from the provisions of the State Corporations Act. The Act severely limits the
entities' management and operational autonomy including that of the development
authorities. Apart from the State Corporation Act, the other legislation affecting the
generation, transmission and distribution of power consists of the Electric Power Act, the
Geothermal Resources Act, and other Acts that deal with foreign investment and with
land use. There is currently no environmental legislation for the sub-sector. The effects
of the various laws on the sub-sector are as follows:
(a)   The State Corporations Act poses restrictions on the companies and
development authorities, as it gives the President and the responsible Minister
wide discretionary powers over them. For example, the President may appoint
and remove board members, and he may issue directives which must be
implemented by the Board.
(b)   The Electric Power Act. The Act provides the Minister with broad powers. In
addition to formulating sub-sector policy, he has control over electricity tariffs.
The Minister also is the dispenser of the licenses needed to participate in any of
the sub-sector's activities. He may also revoke or modify the terms of a license
during its life. Such wide ranging powers are not conducive to the efficient
operation of the sub-sector and are incompatible with today's accepted industry
and business practices which are based on a clear separation of the ownership,
regulation and operation of the sub-sector.
(c)   The Geothermal Resources Act is meant to regulate the use of Kenya's
geothermal resources. It establishes that the resources belong to the State and
again confers power to the Minister of Energy. He issues licenses for exploration
and exploitation and can impose levies, rentals and royalties for use of the
resources.
2.6   The sub-sector has been regulated by the Minister of Energy. The creation of an
independent and credible regulatory mechanism is clearly important for the long-term
sustainability of private sector participation in the sub-sector. The Government has
prepared an action plan for reform of the legal and regulatory framework for the power
sub-sector including specific proposals for establishment of an autonomous Electricity
Regulatory Board (ERB). The draft enabling legislation has been prepared with PPF
financing and would be presented to the Borrower's legislature prior to Credit
effectiveness (para .8.2 (i)). Further, the Government has stated in its Letter of Sector
Policy that the power sub-sector will now be required to operate on a commercial basis
without burdening the Government budget.



-9 -
C.   PETROLEUM SUB-SECTOR
2.7   Sub-sector Institutions. Eight private companies, two parastatals and one semi
private company operate in the petroleum sub-sector. The supply and distribution of
petroleum products is in the hands of subsidiaries of six multinational oil companies
(AGIP, BP, CALTEX, ESSO, SHELL, TOTAL), and two other private companies
(KOBIL and KENOL). The state-owned National Oil Corporation of Kenya (NOCK)
oversees exploration activities and procures crude oil and petroleum products in
competition with the other oil companies. The Kenya Petroleum Refenery Ltd. (KPRL)
at Mombasa, is jointly owned by four oil companies (Shell, BP, Esso and Caltex - 50%)
and the Government (50%). The Kenya Pipeline Company (KPL) operates the petroleum
products pipeline which runs from Mombasa to Nairobi and farther to Nakuru, Eldoret
and Kisumu in western Kenya.
2.8   The Government deregulated the procurement and importation of crude oil and
finished products, and retail prices in October 1994. NOCK's right to supply at least
30% of the distributors' crude oil requirements was rescinded and the distributors are no
longer obliged to meet their requirements through KPRL (para. 3.22). However, the
petroleum sub-sector could not be fully deregulated because of the market's dependence
on KPRL for LPG (a by-product in the refining process) and the absence of infrastructure
for its importation. Therefore, the Government: (i) required oil companies to import and
process through the refinery at least 1.6 million tons of crude annually, which is the
volume required to meet the market's current demand for LPG; and (ii) protected the
refinery's operations, initially for two years through a tax on selected imported products.



-10-
3. ENERGY MARKETS, PRICING AND KEY ISSUES
A.    THE ENERGY MARKETS - ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND SUPPLY
3.1    Kenya's total energy consumption amounted to about 12.5 million tons of oil
equivalent (toe) in 1994. This translates to 0.48 toe per capita, which is low by world
standards but the highest in the Eastern Africa Region'. Fuelwood and charcoal met 70-
75 percent of total energy consumption. Modem energy products - electricity and
petroleum products - met the remainder. Kenya's modem energy consumption (0.10 toe
per capita) is below other developing countries, though it is higher than the average 0.07
toe for sub-Saharan Africa2. Annex 3.1 shows the national energy balance.
Electricity
3.2   Consumption. The growth rate in KPLC's electricity sales has declined during
the past couple of years, owing to a combination of a slowdown in economic growth, and
a supply shortage. While KPLC's sales increased by more than 5 percent annually during
1987 and 1991, the average annual increase has been around 4 percent since 1991. Total
sales in the interconnected system were 3,402 GWh in FY96 of which 45% was to large
industrial and service establishments. Larger industrial and service sector have also been
the consumer category with the most rapidly increasing demand. The total number of
consumers, including rural electrification, is about 406,000 of which 307,000 (76%) are
residential. It is estimated that only 7 to 8 percent of the total population has access to
electricity. Table 3.1 and Annex 3.2 show electricity sales by consumer category in
FY96.
3.3   The growth in system peak demand has also slowed down significantly over the
past few years, and was 648 MW in the 1995/1996 fiscal year. Overall, the average
annual increase has been below 4 percent since 1990, compared to 6.5 percent during the
second half of the 1980s.
Total per capita energy consumption in Uganda and Ethiopia is about 0.3 toe and in Tanzania about
0.45 toe.
2  Modem per capita energy consumption in 1991 was about 0.4 toe in Thailand; about 0.3 toe in the
Philippines, India and Indonesia, while it was about 2.1 toe in Korea.



- I 1 -
Table 3.1 - Electricity Sales by Consumer Category in FY96
1995/96               Average annual growth rate
Consumer Category                         (GWh)                      FY90-FY96 (%)
Domestic/small commercial &                 993                          4.1%
irrigation
Medium commercial & industrial              660                          3.0%
Large commercial & industrial              1,492                         4.7%
Off-peak                                     92                         -3.9%
Street Lighting                              15                          1.2%
Total KPLC                             3,252                         3.8%
Rural electification                        150                         14.7%
Total Sales                            3,402                         4.2%
System Peak (MW)                            648                          3.7%
Source: KPLC
3.4    Chart 3.1 below illustrates that the Nairobi and the Coastal (including Mombasa)
areas account for the bulk (70 percent) of KPLC sales.
Chart 3.1 KPLC Electricity Sales per Geographic Area FY1995
M t. K e ny a   North Rift
W cst Kcn y
C entrol R ift
N airobi
C oIut
3.5    Generation Facilities. Hydro power stations dominate (79%) the interconnected
system of 776 MW of available generating capacity, while geothermal and oil thermal
stations provide the balance. In addition, Kenya has an import agreement with the
Uganda Electricity Board (UEB) for 30 MW of firm power up to the year 2005.
However, because UEB has had little capacity to spare, it has usually been able to export
only during off-peak hours. During 1990-1995, UEB provided only 17 MW of off-peak
power. Table 3.2 shows the available generating capacity and annual generation in FY96.
Annex 3.3 provides plant details.



- 12-
Table 3.2 Available Generating Capacity and Generation
Capacity (MW) as at February 1996, and
generation (GWh) in FY96
AVAILABLE CAPACITY (excl. imports) MW                                       776
Of which Hydro                                                            619
Oil thernal/thennal/diesel/gas turbine                              105
Geothermal                                                           45
Wind                                                                0.4
Diesels in isolated areas                                             7
GENERATION (gross) GWh                                                    4,119
Of which Hydro                                                          3,163
Oil thermal/diesel/gas turbine                                      397
Geothermal                                                          390
Wind                                                                  I
Imports from Uganda                                                 149
Diesels in isolated areas                                            19
Network losses and station use GWh                                  717
SALES GWh                                                                 3,402
Source: KPLC
3.6    The two most important power stations are the Gitaru and Kiambere hydroelectric
stations, which together produced almost 80 percent of total energy in the interconnected
system in 1995/1996. The Olkaria I geothermal station and the liquid fuel generators
(diesels, steam units and gas turbines) provided less than 10 percent each.
3.7    Transmission and Distribution Facilities. The transmission facilities are the
following: 980 km of 220 kV lines; 450 km of 66 kV; 120 km of 40 kV; 3,450 km of 33
kV; and 8,300 km of 11 kV circuits. The 220 kV network is about 10 years old and
consists of four line segments. All 220 and 132 kV lines have single pole reclosing. As a
result of only one 220 kV line connecting Mombasa to the major hydrostations and
because the thermal capacity in the Mombasa area is insufficient to meet the demand, the
quality of service suffers when the line fails. There is also insufficient voltage support in
Mombasa (supply voltage is too low part of the time, and too high at other times). To
improve supply in Mombasa, the project includes installation of transformers,
construction of lines and substation. Distribution voltage is typically 33 and 11 kV.
Secondary distribution voltage is 415 volts for three phase supply and 240 volts for single
phase service.
3.8    System Operations. System operations have been constrained over the last few
years due to insufficient reserve margin, and were further affected by the damage suffered
by one of Gitaru's generating units which took about a year to repair and was returned to
service in March 1996. As no new capacity has been added to the system since FY
1990/1991, reserve margins have continuously decreased, and KPLC has been forced to
resort to periodic load shedding (para 1.7). The output from the thermal plants have
increased in the past couple of years as a result of: (i) a rehabilitation program that has
managed to bring up the steam, gas turbine and diesel units close to their rated capacities;
and (ii) the connection, in 1995, of drilled make-up wells to recover the original output of
the Olkaria I Geothermal Power Plant.



- 13 -
3.9    KPLC has been relatively successful in managing system losses -- about 16
percent of net generation -- when compared to neighboring countries (international
standard is 10 %). However, they are quite high in some parts of the transmission and
distribution system, especially in the Coastal area, where KPLC rely on long 33 kV
feeders to supply load concentrations on the Mombasa Island. As loss levels increase
with load growth, targeted loss reduction measures are required to prevent unacceptable
growth. The proposed project includes a four-year line loss reduction program
comprising upgrading and installation of new feeders, replacement of capacitors, low
voltage system reinforcements and construction of new substations (para. 4.5 (c (ii)).
3.10   Demand and Supply Balances. The sales forecast predicts electricity
consumption to increase on average by 5.6 percent per year over the next ten years to
5,785 GWh in 2006. Charts 3.2 and 3.3 below depict the operation of the interconnected
system with and without the proposed project. Chart 3.2 shows the annual balance
between peak demand and available generating capacity and indicates that the system's
reserve margin presently is negligible resulting in peak load shedding. The situation
worsened during 1996 as several of the old Kipevu thermal units were derated due to
breakdown. With the investments under the proposed project, the capacity balance would
remain comfortably positive from the year 2000 through 2004. Thereafter, new capacity
needs to be installed to meet the growing demand. The chart also shows that without the
project, the capacity of the existing system would decline slightly with the retirement of
the old steam and gas turbine units (Annex 7.3 provides details).
Chart 3.2: Capacity Balance
1,600
1.400 
1,200 -
1l200  *  | | T           _New geothemal MW
1,000           !                             New hydro MW
800 -      t                                 New diesel MW
6  7E.isting capacaty with project
600                                           m
2+_-E.isting capacity without
400                                          project MW
--Forecast system peak MW
200
0
3.11   Chart 3.3 below shows the annual balance between electric energy demand and
supply. The system is not able to meet the current energy demand and the shortage of
energy would continue until Kipevu II and Olkaria III are commissioned in FY2000.
Then, with the other investments under the proposed project - and under average



- 14 -
hydrology - the system would be able to meet demand until around the year 2004, when
the demand again starts pressing close on supply.
Chart 3.3: Electric Energy Demand and Supply Balance
7,W /
5IOW
,:~~~~~~~~ ~ tst0    No-            U6Q>   
Petroleum
3.12  Domestic petroleum products consumption has grown relatively slowly in the past
years (I% per year on average), and was 2 million tons in 1995 (Chart 3.4). The transport
sector accounts for about 67 percent of total consumption; government establishrnents for
25 percent; and non-governmental industries, the service sector, agriculture and
households for the balance of 8 percent. Given strong economic growth of at least 5
percent per year, future consumption growth levels are expected to be higher than those
experienced in the recent past. In addition, LPG consumption is expected to increase
once the supply constraints are removed.
3.13  Since Kenya does not have its own oil resources, all petroleum requirements are
imported. Crude oil is refined at the Mombasa refinery, but due to the simple
configuration of the refinery, it is uneconomic to process sufficient crude oil to match the
domestic demand and, therefore, refined products are imported to meet the supply
shortfall. Kenya imported about 2 million tons of crude oil and 500,000 tons of refined
products in 1995.
3.14 Refined products are transported via a pipeline from the Mombasa Refinery to
Nairobi, and after the recent extension of the pipeline, from Nairobi farther to the towns
of Kisumu and Eldoret in western Kenya. The pipeline also serves as a transport media
for about half of the petroleum products requirements of Uganda (the other half is
transported via Tanzania).



- 15 -
CHART 3.4 DOMESTIC DEMAND FOR PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
z5s00,__
2000,~3-                                                                 U Kerosene
U Petrol
115NIOW    ~ ~ ~~~IOMP
I  I                             E~~~~~~~~~~~~~MJet Fue
1,000,000,                                              o~~~~~IIIIIII~~I    Fuel Oil
* Diesel
1983      1986      1989       1992      1995
B.    ENERGY PRICING
3.15  Electricity Tariffs. Kenya has had a history of low electricity tariffs. The low
prices led to the deterioration of the power sub-sector's financial viability (paras. 5.8 -
5.12). In 1994, however, Kenya started moving towards economic pricing. Under the
program of tariff adjustments agreed with IDA, the first installment raised the average
tariff by about 60% in March 1994. The resulting average tariff was about 55% of
LRMC. The second installment, effected in October 1996, increased the average
electricity tariff to about 73 percent of LRMC. An update of the November 1993 Tariff
Study to be completed by November 1997, would provide the basis for the Govemrment
to agree with IDA on the magnitude and timing of additional adjustments to cover full
LRMC. The 1994 increases improved KPLC's financial position, and future increases
would help it to finance a reasonable share of the costs of its investment program and
contribute to more efficient use of electricity. As the sub-sector is moving towards
commercialization and independent power producers (IPPs), bulk supply tariffs for
purchases from IPPs would be based on the ICB process while the tariffs to final
consumers would be decided by an autonomous ERB (para. 2.6) on the basis of LRMC
principles and the financial needs of the subsector.
3.16 Petroleum Products Prices. On October 27, 1994, the GoK deregulated
petroleum products pricing in line with the agreement reached with the Bank in the
Policy Framework Paper for 1994-1996. Taxes account for between 0 percent (jet fuel)
and 53 percent (regular gasoline) of retail prices.
3.17 Comparative Household Energy Costs. Table 3.5 below shows that firewood
and charcoal are the lowest cost cooking fuels on an equivalent energy basis. Electricity
is substantially more expensive and consequently it is not commonly used for cooking.



- 16 -
In an effort to promote switching from kerosene and charcoal to LPG, the Government is
considering standardizing LPG equipment to increase market competition and lower
prices. The proposed project would finance a study to recommend uniform standards for
LPG cylinders, valves and pressure regulators including the associated testing,
monitoring and regulatory arrangements (para. 4.5 (B)). Additionally, the liberalization
of petroleum prices should increase the availability of fuels even in the more remote
areas. Availability would also improve upon completion of the infrastructure to allow
increased production and/or importation of LPG. The household/rural energy studies
under the project would assess taxation policies to promote transition to efficient modem
fuels (para. 4.5(B)).
Table. 3.5 Comparative Cooking Costs
LPG     Kerosene   Charcoal  Firewood   Electricity
Nairobi retail price                    667     269       135       31        113
US$/ton or US$/MWh
Net heating value                       44.8    40.5      34.4      16.7      3.4
MMBTU/ton or MMBTU/MWh
Price                                   14.8    6.64      3.93      1.85      33.0
US$ per MMBTU
Stove Efficiency                        55%     42%       30%       17%       60%
Efficiency adjusted cost
US$ per MMBTU                           27.1    15.8      13.1      10.9      55.0
1/ Exchange rate: I $US =55 KSh
C.     KEY ISSUES IN THE ENERGY SECTOR
3.18 The principal issues in the energy sector are: (i) Government involvement in all
aspects of energy sector operations (para. 2.5); (ii) low electricity prices in relation to the
power sub-sector's financial requirements and to the economic cost of supply (para.
3.15); (iii) complex power sub-sector organizational structure (para. 2.3); (iv) until
recently, GoK control of petroleum products pricing, marketing and procurement
resulting in economic distortions; (v) low demand and supply-side energy efficiency; and
(vi) potentially negative environmental effects of energy projects. Because of the long
time it has taken the GoK and the Bank to reach agreement on sector reform policies, it
has proved difficult for the GoK to mobilize resources for the required investmnents, thus
resulting in the current electricity supply shortages.
(a)    Government Involvement. The GoK has played a dominant role in the sector
through ownership of facilities and a significant involvement in strategic and
operations management. It is the main owner of power generation facilities,
owner of the oil pipeline and petroleum storage facilities, and has a 50 percent
stake in the KPRL. In addition, the GoK takes an active management role in the
key areas of setting and approving electricity prices, approving investment
programs, and appointing the Boards of the energy enterprises. Prior to the
exemption of KPLC and KPC from the State Corporations Act, the GoK also
provided the ceilings on staff remuneration and benefit levels under the general
categorization of parastatals.



- 17-
(b)   Electricity Pricing. For many years, the average electricity tariff
remained substantially below the economic and financial cost of supply
(para. 3.15). As a result, the sub-sector experienced financial difficulties
which impacted on its ability to service external debt obligations, which
the Government had to meet under guarantee agreements with lenders.
However, following recent tariff increases, the industry has reimbursed the
GoK. Low prices have also promoted inefficient use of electricity.
(c)   Complex Organization of the Electricity Sub-Sector. Power purchase
arrangements between the KPLC and the bulk supply companies (KPC,
TRDC, TARDA and KVDA) are complex. KPLC purchases power from
the bulk supply companies under various purchase and lease agreements.
A number of unusual practices are apparent in the execution of these
agreements. First, with respect to power purchases from TARDA, the
Government requires KPLC to remit payments to cover TARDA's debt
obligations to the Treasury, instead of making payments to TARDA as
envisioned under the original agreement. Since 1994, KPLC also pays
KSh 55 million annually directly to TARDA to cover expenditure on
catchment preservation, dam monitoring and security. In addition, the
GoK finances the cost of TARDA's other activities. Second, the
ownership of the Turkwell power plant implemented in 1991 (developed
by KVDA and operated by KPLC) is undefined. Nevertheless, KPLC has
since 1994 paid KVDA KSh 45 million annually to cover operating and
maintenance costs related to the Turkwell dam. In addition to the annual
payments, KPLC also pays the equivalent of US cents 3 per KWh for the
electricity dispatched from Turkwell and covers the operation and
maintenance costs of the power station.
(d)   Petroleum Sub-Sector Operations. With the deregulation of petroleum
products prices and importation in October 1994, the main outstanding
issue is the removal of the remaining impediments to full competition: (i)
the requirement for the market participants to process at least 1.6 million
tons of crude oil per annum so as to meet the current consumption of LPG;
and (ii) the import taxes on fuel products instituted to protect KPRL,
initially for two years up to October 1996. Based on estimates by the
present shareholders, the minimum level of protection that the refinery in
its present state would need to be competitive with direct product imports
is equivalent to about US$1.5 per barrel imported products. This
translates into an annual cost to the economy of about US$22-37 million.
These issues are being addressed under the Bank's macroeconomic
dialogue with the Government.
(e)   Delays in Implementing Sector Investment Programs. Investment,
both in new plants and in the rehabilitation of existing facilities to meet
the growing demand for energy has been inadequate. The main reasons



- 18 -
for inadequate investment have been lack of donor support due to slow
implementation of sector reforns and inadequate self-financing. As a
result, Kenya is now experiencing electricity shortages which are imposing
a substantial cost to the economy and restraining economic growth (para
1.7). If the required investments are not undertaken quickly, electricity
shortages would continue to increase with serious consequences to the
economy, especially if rainfall is below average and reduces the output
from the hydro plants. The sub-sector's aggregate investment
requirements are estimated to total almost US$1,000 million during FY96-
2001, the financing of which would be a heavy burden on the economy
unless the Government seeks new ways of mobilizing resources, for
instance from the private sector as well as substantially improving the
financial performance of the power companies. This in turn requires
increasing the operational efficiency of the companies and adoption of
sound pricing policies. The proposed project would finance about US$700
million (excluding interest during construction) for the next five years.
Additional resources would therefore need to be soon mobilized,
particularly for financing of transmission and distribution systems.
(f)   Demand and Supply-Side Energy Efficiency. Although some efforts
have been made to improve energy efficiency, inappropriate energy
pricing policies and lack of awareness of savings opportunities have
impeded progress in this area. On the supply side, KPLC has recently
carried out a loss reduction study, with the assistance of ESMAP, to
identify cost-effective means to reduce distribution losses in the major
load centers. On the demand side, the Kenya Industrial Energy
Management Programme -- initiated in 1985, and administered by the
Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) -- focuses on the provision of
information and energy audit services on a cost- sharing basis. Currently,
ESMAP is providing support to increase the program's commercialization
through greater cost-sharing by the benefiting industries, and to introduce
modem techniques and skills. The outlook for improved demand and
supply-side energy efficiency is more promising today because of the new
tariff policy, the power sub-sector reorganization, including greater
commercial orientation and private sector participation. The proposed
project would build on the past experiences and the new incentives and
finance activities to develop the human and institutional capabilities,
promote private sector participation and introduce energy efficient
technologies.
Agenda for Policy Reform
3.19 The dialogue between the Bank and the Government of Kenya on energy sector
reforms has been going on since the preparation of the Geothermal Development and Pre-
Investment Project in 1988. The Government fully recognizes the importance of the



- 19 -
issues discussed above on both sector and macroeconomic performance and has recently
committed itself to creating an efficient and viable energy sector.
3.20  The GoK's overall strategic objective is to create enabling conditions for an
efficient energy sector and eliminate electricity supply deficits. To accomplish this
objective, the strategy is detailed in Government's Letter of Sector Development Policy
(Annex 3.4). The strategy comprises: (i) macroeconomic measures to create an enabling
environment for attracting private sector investment and to improve incentives for
operational efficiency; (ii) reforms of the sector's institutional and legal environment; and
(iii) least-cost investments in power to eliminate supply deficits in the late 1990s and
early 2000s. Public sector investments are expected to be complemented by private
sector investment in at least two power plants in the next five years.
3.21  Macroeconomic. The macroeconomic measures relate primarily to the
adjustment of power tariffs and to the deregulation of the petroleum sub-sector. On
electricity prices, the objective is to reach economic levels so as to provide appropriate
consumer signals and to enable the sub-sector to become financially viable. The
Government agreed in the context of the 1994-1996 PFP, to raise the average tariff to 75
percent of the LRMC by 1996, in three installments starting in March 1994. In the first
installment, a nominal increase of about 60 percent in the average tariff raised it to about
55 percent of LRMC. The second installment, scheduled for March 1995 was postponed
since the average tariff had already reached the 65 percent of the LRMC target due to
appreciation of the KSh. The installment on October 1, 1996, raised the average tariff to
about 73 percent of LRMC. In addition, the Government has: (i) given KPLC the
autonomy to implement a fuel adjustment clause since March, 1994; (ii) agreed to allow
KPLC to automatically adjust tariffs to reflect changes in the cost of external debt service
arising from fluctuation in the exchange rate of Kenya shilling. Further adjustments
would be determined on the basis of an update of the Tariff Study to be completed by
November 1997 and recommendations, satisfactory to IDA, would be implemented
during FY1997/98. This issue will also be addressed under the Bank's macroeconomic
dialogue, as the agreement between the Government and IDA on an action plan for the
implementation of further tariff adjustments is a condition for the Structural Adjustment
Credit's second trance release.
3.22  With regard to the petroleum sub-sector, the GoK deregulated the importation,
marketing and pricing of petroleum products on October 27, 1994. The objective of the
deregulation was to create a competitive and efficient market for petroleum products by
removing controls on procurement, distribution and pricing of products. The following
measures have been implemented to date:
(i)    NOCK's right to import upto 30 percent of domestic product requirements
was rescinded;



- 20 -
(ii)  temporary import tariff of KSh 0.50 per liter on all finished petroleum
products except kerosene, LPG and automotive diesel, to allow KPRL to
prepare for a competitive environment;
(iii)  liberalization of retail prices, although, under the Restrictive Trade
Practices and Monopolies Act Ch. 504, the MoF has powers to fix ceiling
prices in areas with inadequate competition;
(iv)   a monitoring cell was established in MOE to monitor petroleum products'
prices and maintenance of minimum operating stocks of 30 days
consumption of liquid products and 10 days for LPG by oil companies;
and
(v)   requirement that the oil companies refine at least 1.6 million tons of LPG
rich crude oil at KPRL to secure LPG supply until alternative supply
arrangements have been worked out.
3.23  The Government and other shareholders in the refinery are currently discussing
tbe options for the future of the refinery. These include: (i) extension of protection to
gin e KPRL more time to improve its competitiveness in an open environment, including
investment in improving LPG output; and (ii) closure of the refinery with the possibility
o-f converting it into a fuel import facility including importation of LPG. These issues are
beivig addressed under the Bank's macroeconomic dialogue with the Government.
3.24  Institutional and Legal Environment. This aspect of the strategy comprises
restructuring of the power sub-sector to create arm's length commercial-type
relationships between the companies and reforms of the legal and regulatory framework
o tlacilitate the restructuring of the sub-sector and encourage private sector participation.
A ti autonomous regulatory arrangement is particularly important to ensure that decisions
im' electricity pricing, and environmental issues among other things are taken in an
,o'bi(ctive manner.
'.X95  On power restructuring, the GoK commissioned a two phase Power Sector
P,estructuring Study to recommend an efficient industry structure and an implementation
anid financial restructuring plan. Based on the reports' recommendations, the
Go vernrnent agreed to restructure the sector entities into two separate companies, one for
generation and one for transmission and distribution, both to be managed on a
commercial basis under the auspices of performance contracts. In addition, new power
oplants would be offered to both the private and public sector generating companies to
construct, own, manage and operate. Further efficiency gains would be achieved from
st teamlining staffing to levels consistent with industry standards and from contracting out
ml.2iIlary and other services. Agreement has been reached with the Government on an
actiocn plan for restructuring the power sub-sector and implementation of the
r-estructuring has started.



- 21 -
3.26 The Government has also commissioned a study of the legal and regulatory
framework for the energy sector. On the basis of the study's findings, agreement has
been reached with the Government on an action plan for implementation of the
recommended reforms (including a detailed proposalfor the establishment of an
autonomous regulatory arrangement for the power sub-sector). Submission to
Parliament of the required amendments to the Electric Power Act would be a condition
for Credit effectiveness (para. 8.2 (i)).
3.27  Investment. The third element of the strategy comprises investments in power
generation and associated transmission and distribution, designed to eliminate electricity
supply deficits in the late 1990s and early 2000s and to increase supply and demand-side
efficiency. Agreement was reached, during appraisal, on a five-year investment plan for
the power sub-sector. Further, during negotiations, agreement was reachedfor the
Government to review with IDA its power sub-sector five-year rolling investment plan by
March 31, of each year. GoK would not undertake any investments of more than US$10 
million (including IPPs), outside the agreed least-cost plan without consulting with IDA
(para 8.1 (i)). The investment program includes construction by KPC of three power
plants which are critical for meeting power demand in the late 1990s, addition of a 72.5
MW unit at an existing power station (Gitaru) and private sector construction and
operation of two other power plants (75 MW Kipevu II Diesel and 64 MW Olkaria III
Geothermal) which are required under the least-cost investment program, and which
would increase competition in the sector and improve operational efficiency.
D.   WORLD BANK GROUP INVOLVEMENT
3.28  IDA has provided seven loans and credits totaling about US$212.2 million for
financing power investments in Kenya between 1971-1988. The first two power projects
(Ln. 745-KE and Ln. 1147-KE) helped finance hydroelectric development on the Tana
River. The projects were designed to meet the demand for power in Nairobi and the
coastal area around Mombasa, where most of the industrial and commercial activities of
Kenya are concentrated. Five loans and credits were made for the development of
geothermal power in Kenya. The Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Loan (Ln S-12-KE of
1978) financed drilling of additional wells to gauge the productivity of the Olkaria steam
field and to ensure that there was sufficient steam for each generating unit proposed under
Phase II of the Olkaria Geothermal Development Project. The Olkaria Geothermal Power
Project (Ln. 1799-KE of 1980) aimed to provide a firm source of power and energy
within the country to meet the growth of demand expected from 1981 to 1985 and to
assist in reducing the country's heavy dependence on imported oil. The Olkaria
Geothermal Power Expansion Project (Ln. 2237-KE of 1983) was intended to meet the
growth in energy demand which was projected to exceed the available capacity at the
time. The Geothermal Exploration Project (Ln. 1486-KE of 1984) was to support
acceleration of the geothermal exploration and improve new reserves that could support
additional power generation during the 1990s. The main objective of the recently
completed Geothermal Development and Energy Pre-Investment Project (Cr. 1973-KE of



- 22 -
1988) was to assist Kenya in preparing a least-cost power generation expansion plan,
largely through utilization of indigenous energy resources, and to develop options for
energy pricing policies. It also addressed selected aspects of rural electrification policy
and household fuel supply and distribution.
3.29  Three loans were made for reforestation (Loans 641-KE. 1132-KE/Credit 565-KE
and 2098-KE/Cr. 1213 -KE). The first loan was implemented satisfactorily, while the
second loan suffered from cost overruns and implementation problems. In the petroleum
sub-sector, the Bank financed the construction of the products pipeline from Mombasa to
Nairobi (Ln. 1 133-KE) between 1975 and 1981 and two petroleum exploration promotion
projects (Ln. 2065-KE and Cr. 1675-KE). Pipeline construction was completed on
schedule. The exploration promotion projects have been successful in helping to attract
six international companies to take acreage in Kenya, but no commercially viable oil or
gas reserves have been discovered to date.
3.30  The hydroelectric projects (1971 and 1975) concentrated largely on financing of
construction and equipment; execution of the physical components was generally good.
In the later years, lending shifted to strengthening the institutions with provision of
technical assistance and training, particularly for geothermal development. The Project
Completion Reports on all power projects concluded that while the objectives of physical
components were generally achieved, there were weaknesses in project design,
institutional, environmental and financial aspects, as well as in monitoring, and
procurement. The lessons learned from these operations have been incorporated in the
design of the proposed project.
3.31  The project has incorporated the recommendations of the Bank's policy papers on
electric power and energy efficiency, which emphasize the importance of transparent
regulatory processes, private sector participation, sector restructuring, and promotion of
both supply and demand side efficiency. ESMAP's recommendations for reducing power
losses have also been taken into account in the design of the project's efficiency
component.



- 23 -
4. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT ORIGIN, RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES
4.1   Origin. A number of studies undertaken with IDA financing provided under the
Geothermal Development and Energy Pre-Investment Project (Cr. 1973-KE), the Parastatal
Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 2440-KE) and under a Project
Preparation Facility - have facilitated the preparation of the project. In the late 1980s, it was
foreseen that new investments were needed in the power sub-sector by the mid 1990's to avoid
supply shortages. However, IDA could not support new investments in the absence of an
agreement on sector reform policies and program for implementation. The following issues were
identified as requiring in the dialogue with the Government: (i) low electricity prices in relation
to the power sub-sector's financial requirements and to the economic cost of supply; (ii)
complexity of the power subsector organization (para. 3.18); (iii) need for annual update of and
adherence to least cost power expansion plan; and (iv) need to incorporate environmental
analysis in project feasibility studies; and (v) GoK control of petroleum pricing, procurement and
marketing. To address these issues, studies were commissioned on electricity tariffs; power
sector organization; least-cost generation expansion planning; and petroleum pricing,
procurement and marketing. These studies provided the basis for the policy dialogue which
culminated in an agreement with the Bank on a broad sector reform strategy in the framework of
the PFP for FY1994-96. The studies also provided the basis for further dialogue with the Bank
on the details of the policy reform during the preparation of this project. The project's Sector
Restructuring and Reform Component has been designed to assist the GoK in implementing the
most critical policy reforms. An Environmental Ranking Study was also carried out with Bank
staff assistance. In addition, environmental assessments have been carried out for three of the
five power generation plants included in the proposed project.
4.2   Rationale for IDA Involvement. IDA's participation in this project would support the
Government's development objectives and policies towards economic growth and poverty
reduction as expressed in the 1996-1998 PFP (para. 1.4). Mirroring the PFP, the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (discussed by the Board on January 30, 1996) emphasizes poverty reduction
as key to be met by faster growth, improved expenditures and targeted measures. This project is
an integral part of the CAS for poverty reduction in terms that it would stimulate economic
growth by: (i) improving and expanding basic infrastructure, which is critical to both improving
the efficiency of existing private sector investment and attracting new private investment; (ii)
improving public sector efficiency; and (iii) promoting private participation in energy provision.
Specifically, the project would eliminate the electricity shortages which are a key bottleneck to
economic growth, support the implementation of parastatal reforms in the electricity sub-sector,



- 24 -
create an enabling policy and regulatory environment for private sector investment and
management, and improve the human capabilities in the energy sector. In addition, IDA's
involvement leverages about US$290 million in cofinancing and is critical in boosting private
sector confidence in Kenya's energy sector.
4.3   Project Objectives. The project's objectives are to assist the GoK in formulating and
implementing major policy and institutional reforms aimed at creating an efficient and
environmentally sustainable energy sector and to support investments needed to meet power
demand and increase operational efficiency. The project's specific objectives are to:
(i)   finance investments needed to meet power demand and improve the operational
efficiency in the sub-sector;
(ii)  reform the organizational structure of the power sub-sector to enable the operating
entities to function efficiently and on a commercially sustainable basis;
(iii)  create a legal and regulatory environment necessary for private sector
participation in the supply of electricity;
(iv)  support the GoK's adoption of economic pricing of both electricity and petroleum
products and implementation of demand and supply-side efficiency improvement
measures; and
(v)   develop indigenous geothermal energy resources and a strategy for sustainable
household and rural energy development.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
4.4   The project would consist of the following six components:
A. Sector Restructuring and Reform
B. Other Institutional Support
C. Efficiency Improvements
D. Power System Expansion & Upgrading
E. Geothermal Resource Development
F. Future Project Preparation
4.5   A brief description of the various components of the project is given below, while
detailed descriptions are provided in the Project Implementation Plan and in Annexes 4.2
through 4.2.



- 25 -
A.    Sector Restructuring and Reform (US$3.6 million) - The project would support (i)
establishment of a legal and regulatory framework necessary to improve sector efficiency; (ii)
reform of the organization, management and financial structure of the power subsector
companies, and separation of generation from transmission and distribution functions; and (iii)
promotion of private sector participation in the provision and management of operations. Details
of the program are contained in Annex 4.2.
B.    Institutional Support (US$24.6 million) - This component comprises studies, advisory
services and logistical support to project implementing entities. The studies fall under four
categories. The first category consists of identified prefeasibility and feasibility studies, and
preparation of tender documents for future projects. The second category assists in determining a
strategy for sustainable and affordable household and rural energy development, and includes
energy supply and demand studies and policy and institutional analysis. It will draw upon the
results of the ongoing rural electrification study. The third category addresses consumer
concerns about the quality of solar photovoltaic components and systems and examines the
establishment of quality guidelines, including regulatory incentives to encourage the application
of minimum norms. The fourth category will seek to promote competition in the supply of LPG
to consumers through the development of uniform standards for LPG cylinders, valves and
pressure regulators and the associated testing, monitoring and regulatory arrangements '.
Advisory services comprise policy, engineering and financial management support to the
Implementation Support Group (ISG) in MOE which will be responsible for coordination of
project implementation. Engineering and financial management support will also be provided to
KPC for implementation of the power generation component. Logistic support in the form of
office technology and equipment will be provided to the ISG (para. 6.2).
C.    Efficiency Improvements (US$11.8 million)
(i)    Demand Side Improvements (US$5.4 million) - The project would assist in: (a)
developing capacity in KPLC and in the local private sector to design, implement
and evaluate efficiency and electricity demand management projects; (b)
establishing pricing incentives for energy efficiency, such as time-of-use tariffs,
and interruptible rates to complement the agreed tariff reforms; (c) conducting
demonstration programs on energy efficient lighting, air conditioning and other
consumer equipment in public buildings including KPLC's buildings; (d) mapping
out mechanisms for third party financing of efficiency improvement measures; (e)
establishing guidelines for energy efficiency labeling and standards for electric
appliances and motors.
(ii)   Line Loss Reduction (US$6.4 million) - The project will: (a) finance major
distribution rehabilitation and loss reduction programs in the Nairobi and the
The project activities in rural, renewable and household energy development support the recommendations of
the Bank's Best Practice Paper "Rural Energy and Development", July 1996 (report No. 15912-GLB).



- 26 -
Coastal areas based on the results of the KPLC/ESMAP loss reduction study; (b)
assist KPLC to implement the ESMAP recommended program for the reduction
of non-technical losses; and (c) finance the required technical assistance to set up
an implementation plan and train a task force. Annex 4.3 details the efficiency
improvement component.
D.   Power System Expansion & Rehabilitation (US$609.1 million)
(i)   Power Generation (US$579.1 million) - The objectives of this component are to
increase generation capacity and to install associated transmission facilities. The
component includes financing of: (i) a 75 MW Diesel Power Plant at Mombasa
(Kipevu I); (ii) a 64 MW Olkaria North-East Geothermal Power Station at
Naivasha (Olkaria II); (iii) a second 75 MW Diesel Power Plant at Mombasa
(Kipevu II); (iv) another 64 MW Geothermal Power Plant (Olkaria III); (v) a third
72.5 MW unit at Gitaru Hydropower Station; and (vi) connection of two
additional wells for the existing Olkaria I Geothermal Power Plant. KPLC's least-
cost generation plan which has been reviewed and endorsed by independent
consultants indicate that Kipevu I and Olkaria II would be needed to meet demand
starting in FY 1997/98, FY 1998/99 and FY1999/00 respectively. However,
because of delays in implementing the investment program (para. 1.7), these
plants are now expected to be commissioned in FY1999/00 and FY2000/01
respectively. Because of the urgent need to start construction in order to meet
these commissioning dates, these plants would be financed through traditional
public financing sources. Kipevu II and Olkaria III would also be commissioned
in FY1999/00 and FY2000/01 respectively. The two power plants are expected to
be constructed by independent power producers. The preparation work leading to
the award of contracts to IPPs is being supported by an IDA Project Preparation
Facility advance. A detailed description of the power system expansion and
upgrading component is given in Annex 4.4.
(ii)   Upgrading of Distribution System (US$30.0 million) - This sub-component would
cover implementation of a program for the reinforcement of the primary
distribution systems in Nairobi and in the Coastal areas. In the Nairobi area the
66 kv ring road around the city would be completed and the 66 kv-11 kv
substations capacity would be expanded. Reconductoring of some sections of the
66 kv lines would also be carried out to eliminate bottlenecks. In the Coastal area,
the program consists of increasing the 33-11 kv substation capacity in Mombasa
and along the Indian coast. In addition, a 132 kv line would be built between
Rabai and Diani. Details of the program are contained in Annex 4.4.
E.   Geothermal Resource Development (US$49.3 million) - This component would assist
the Government in developing geothermal energy resources. The project will also finance
resource development activities aimed at supporting production of power at the next power plant
(Olkaria IV), and developing resources for future private sector participation. Details of the
program are shown in Annex 4.5.



- 27 -
F.    Future Project Preparation (US$1.5 million) - This component would support
preparatory activities for the follow-on projects in support of the GoK's least-cost energy
investment program.
C. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
4.6    The total cost of the project is estimated at US$699.9 million equivalent, excluding taxes
and duties and interest during construction, broken down by component as detailed above. Of
the total cost, about US$570.1 million or 81%, would be in foreign costs. Total costs include
about US$36.5 million in physical contingencies or about 6% of total base costs; and US$42.5
million in price contingencies or about 7% of total base costs plus physical contingencies.
Engineering and construction supervision costs are included in the cost estimates for the physical
components at an average rate of about 10% of base cost. Price contingencies have been
calculated on the basis of estimated international inflation of 2.4% from FY1996/97. This
inflation rate has been used for both foreign and domestic costs as it has been assumed that any
differences between domestic and international price will be offset by equivalent adjustments in
Kenya's foreign exchange rate. A summary of the cost estimates is provided in Table 4.1 below
Table 4.1 - Estimated Project Costs
Kenya
Energy Sector Investment Project                                                                                      %      % Total
Components Project Cost Summary                            (KShs '000)                        (USS '000)            Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign       Total       Local   Foreign    Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Sector Restructuring Reform
Sector Reorganization                                    -   235,266.5   235,266.5           -   3,182.7   3,182.7       100        1
Deregulation of Petroleum Markets                  3,696.0    21,735.7    25,431.7        50.0    294.0      344.0        85        -
Subtotal Sector Restructuring Reform               3,696.0   257,002.2   260,698.2        50.0   3,476.8   3,526.8        99        1
B. Institduonal Support                          168,870.2  1,516,122.1  1,684,992.4   2,335.4  20,889.6  23,225.1        90        4
C. Efficiency Improvements
Demand Side Improvements                           5,895.1    323,751.1    329,646.2      81.6   4,480.5   4,562.1        98        1
Line Loss Reduction                               61,205.8   350,528.6   411,734.4    847.0   4,849.9   5,697.0           85        1
Subtotal Efficiency Improvements                  67,100.9   674,279.8   741,380.6       928.6   9,330.4  10,259.0        91        2
D. Power Expansion and Rehabilitation
Power Generation                               6,853,352.4 30,040,193.6 36,893,545.9  94,845.5 415,734.8 510,580.3        81       82
Upgrading of Distribution Systems                960,960.0   960,960.0  1,921,920.0  13,299.0  13,299.0  26,598.0         50        4
Subtotal Power Expansion and Rehabilitation    7,814,312.4 31,001,153.6 38,815,465.9 108,144.5 429,033.8 537,178.3        80       87
E. Geothermal Resource Development               323,799.2  2,955,292.0  3,279,091.2   4,481.1  40,899.1  45,380.3        90        7
F. Future Project Prepration                             -    93,139.2    93,139.2           -   1,289.0   1,289.0       100        -
Total BASELINE COSTS                           8,377,778.6 36,496,988.9 44,874,767.6 115,939.7 504,918.7 620,858.5        81      100
Physical Contingencies                           422,279.8  2,218,721.4  2,641,001.2   5,844.1  30,705.5  36,549.5        84        6
Price Contingencies                            3,849,938.3 16,813,732.1 20,663,670.4   8,026.0  34,497.3  42,523.2        81        7
Total PROJECT COSTS                           12,649,996.8 55,529,442.4 68,179,439.2 129,809.7 570,121.5 699,931.2        81      113
4.7   Project Financing. An IDA Credit of US$125 million would finance about 17.9% of
total project costs excluding taxes and duties. Other financiers would be OECF (about US$82.8
million); European Investment Bank (EIB) (about US$48.7 million), KfW (about US$20.8
million) and private sector investors (about US$262.5 million). KPC and KPLC would finance
the balance of US$160.1 million and about US$99.0 million of interest during construction.
Table 4.2 below provides the financing plan.



- 28 -
Table: 4.2 - Project Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Local     Foreign   Total
IDA                                2.1      122.9     125.0
OECF                               4.9       77.9      82.8
EIB                               -          48.7      48.7
KfW                                3.5       17.3      20.8
Private Investors                 51.0      211.5     262.5
Government                        68.2       91.9     160.1
KPLC
KPC
Total Project Costs               129.7     570.2     699.9
Interest During Construction       99.0                99.0
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED          228.7     570.2     798.9
4.8   Project Onlending Arrangements. The IDA Credit would be made to the Government
of Kenya on standard terms. The Government would re-lend about US$104.6 million and
US$11.7 million equivalent to KPC and KPLC respectively. The balance of about US$8.7
million equivalent, not initially re-lend, would include funding for preparation of future projects
(US$1.5 million), institutional support (US$3.9 million), and sector reorganization (US$3.6
million). Since the preparation activities for future projects and some of the institutional support
activities cannot be determined in advance, the related funds would be relend to KPC and/or
KPLC where the activities concerned are of a commercial nature. The relent funds would be
provided for 20 years including 5 years grace, at an effective interest rate of not less than 7.7
percent. KPC and KPLC would bear the foreign exchange risk. Execution of subsidiary loan
agreements between the Government and the implementing agencies pertaining to the onlent IDA
funds, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of effectiveness (para.
8.2 (ii)).
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
4.9   The project includes substantive policy and institutional reform components which are
designed to create a more efficient and sustainable sector. The Sector Restructuring and Reform
component includes financing and implementation of three key reforms. First, the power sub-
sector is in the process of being reorganized to better establish commercial arm's length
relationships between the management of generation assets on one hand and those of
transmission and distribution assets on the other hand. The reorganization will clearly define the
ownership of power assets and the responsibilities for subsector debt. Second, the Government
will separate the responsibility for regulation of the power subsector from policy and from
operations. This will provide an environment for more objective decisions on important issues
such as tariff-setting and licensing, thereby making the subsector a more attractive destiny for
private capital investment. Third, the GoK has committed to opening up the power market to the
private sector for investment and operations. Under the project, two of the five power plants
accounting for about 40% of the generation capacity to be installed under the project, have



- 29 -
already been offered to the private sector. In addition, the project will make significant positive
contributions to the Governments budget through payment of incremental corporate taxes,
dividends and interest on funds to be relent to the power companies (para. 7.20).
E. PARTICIPATION
4.10  The project was prepared in a collaborative manner with the GoK taking the lead role.
Environmental studies were prepared almost exclusively by local consultants. Local consultants
also participated in the preparation of the power sector reorganization and the legal and
regulatory framework studies. NGOs, both international and domestic, participated in reviews of
environmental impact assessments and attended meetings at the Bank's Resident Mission on the
project. Representatives of various civic organizations also participated in the review of tariff
increase proposals. Throughout the preparation process, discussions were held between IDA and
the donors had discussions. In early 1995 the Government briefed donors on the status of the
project followed by a donors' meeting in September 1995. The private sector has also been
invited to participate in the project through the offer of two power plants for independent power
producers. Evaluation of private sector bids has been completed and negotiations with successful
bidders are expected shortly.
4.11  During implementation, the following arrangements are foreseen for participation. With
regard to power supply, KPLC will monitor customer satisfaction through repeat surveys. The
monitoring and the implementation of any remedial actions will be supervised by the Chief
Manager Customer Care, a recently created position to improve KPLC's customer
responsiveness and service orientation. As part of the efficiency improvement component,
stakeholder participation will take place in the context of a number of action-planning
workshops. These workshops will discuss opportunities to improve energy efficiency and
disseminate information. Finally, the program evaluation will include a survey of stakeholders
satisfaction with the efficiency initiatives carried out under the project. The
Renewable/Household Energy component will ensure the participation of a representative group
of medium and low income households, rural industries, service establishments, energy vendors
through systematic surveys. In addition, NGOs concerned with rural and renewable energy
supply will be consulted. Adequate communication will be maintained with co-financiers, for
instance through shared missions.
F. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
4.12  The Project is classified as an Environment Assessment Category A. EAs were
conducted for NE Olkaria Geothermal and for the two Kipevu Diesel plants. A sectoral EA was
not carried out as the components were identified at different times. Instead of a sectoral EA,
KPLC decided to rank project components in order of environmental preference. This ranking
also served as environmental/social summaries for project components.
4.13  The geothermal site at NE Olkaria is located within Hell's Gate National Park, a park that
was created around the existing geothermal plant and with the knowledge that the NE Olkaria
site would be developed for geothermal energy. The area is rich with wildlife and serves as a



- 30 -
grazing area/migration route for Maasai pastoralists. Experience with the existing site shows that
wildlife accommodate quickly to the production wells and pipes and normally groups can be seen
grazing or resting in the shade of wells or pipes. The fenced perimeter of the existing plant has
interrupted livestock grazing although wildlife species are found within the active field. As a
part of the mitigation measures, the new facility will be fenced only around the wells and
separators so that wildlife and livestock will have continued access to most of the project area.
Since the facility will convert wild lands to other uses, Bank wild lands policy requires
compensatory actions. During negotiations, KPC agreed to take all necessary measures to
ensure free movement of wildlife within the Olkaria area and between Olkaria and Hells Gate
and Longonot National Park in accordance with the agreement dated September 20, 1994
between KPC and KWS (para. 8.1, xi). Currently, KPC assists KWS in the maintenance of park
facilities.
4.14  The EA for the geothermal facility recommended that condensates be reinjected as they
would be more harmful to livestock and wildlife than the condensates produced by the existing
plant. The reinjection is a part of the mitigation plan. The EA also closely reviewed water
extraction from Lake Naivasha and concluded that KPC extraction was far less than other present
water users and that the increased extraction for the new plant will not pose serious threats to the
lake levels.
4.15 The Kipevu diesel unit will be designed to meet western air emission standards and liquid
wastes will be treated on site. The facility will be built on land adjacent to the existing oil-fired
steam electric plant. The new facility will not require large amounts of water and it is likely that
it will be able to use water from a new waste treatment plant. It will not use Mombasa Municipal
water. The site will not involve relocating people and the land is currently unused and was a
former site of a WWII military installation.
4.16  Execution of the mitigation plans which are detailed in the EAs and in the Project
Implementation Plan would be monitored by KPC's Environmental Unit. KPC's staff would
receive further training, particularly in the area of environmental analysis for hydropower plants.
IDA implementation support missions would also include an environmental specialist to monitor
implementation of mitigation plans. During negotiations the Government agreed that adequate
environmental analysis would be carried outfor allfuture power sub-sector projects and
appropriate mitigation plans would be developed and carried out (para. 8.1 (ii)).



- 31 -
5. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. THE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
5.1   As indicated in paragraph 2.3, the organization of the power sub-sector is
complex. The complexities include:
(i)  financial rules regarding settlement of the costs of supplying power from the
KPLC-managed power stations owned by multi-purpose river development
authorities; and
(ii) the pricing system under which KPLC bears the full cost of the operations of
the two paper companies which it manages (KPC and TRDC), effectively
making the two companies mere cost centers.
5.2   Financial Rules. The two hydroelectric power stations owned by TARDA
(Masinga and Kiambere) supply power to TRDC and KPLC respectively. 'The original
agreements between TARDA and KPLC and TRDC provided for certain costs to be
borne by TRDC and KPLC. In the case of Kiambere, the lease agreement requires KPLC
to pay a development surcharge equivalent to 15% of the total cost of Kiambere; debt
service for the loans contracted for construction of the plant; and the cost of replacements
and repairs necessary to maintain efficient operation of the plant. The agreement was
structured so as to enable TARDA to obtain surpluses for investment on irrigation and
rural development projects. Between 1988 and 1990, GOK issued instructions directing
KPLC and TRDC to make payments for the cost of supply from the two power plants
(primarily debt service) directly to Treasury instead of to TARDA. The debt service
payments were also to be made on the same terms on which the loans had been provided
to TARDA. TARDA was to be compensated for the loss of revenue from the power
industry through direct payments from the Treasury. Following these changes, TARDA
became dependent on the Government for budgetary support. However, since 1994, it
has received annual payments of Ksh 55 million from KPLC to cover dam related
operation and maintenance expenditures (para 3.18 (c)).
5.3   The power sub-sector organization study has recommended that the revalued
power generation assets for Masinga, Kiambere and Turkwell power stations be
transferred to the generation company together with their related debt. The power
Although the lease agreement for Kiambere is between KPLC and TARDA, since FY1995/96 the debt
service costs for the plant are being in TRDC accounts. TRDC in turn recovers these costs from
KPLC. These anomalies will be corrected when the arrears are transferred to KPC as part of the
sector restructuring.



- 32 -
generation company (KPC) would therefore be responsible for the debt service related to
the assets and for the costs of operating the facilities and would recover these costs
through tariffs from bulk power sales to KPLC. The Government has accepted the
recommendations and developed an action plan for reorganization of the power sub-
sector which includes as main features.' the establishment of separate companies for
generation and for transmission and distribution; the establishment and appointment of a
Board; and appointment of key managers for the new power generation company. In
January 1997, the GOK itnplemented the initial step under the plan by appointing a
Managing Director, Chairman and Board.for the new Keniya Power Company Limited.
The GOK also established a Task Force to oversee the sharing of staff and other
resources between KPLC and the new KPC.
5.4   Cost- Plus Pricing. In the power industry itself, excluding the multipurpose
development authorities, KPLC purchases power from KPC and TRDC at an "ascertained
cost" which is calculated as the total costs incurred by the supplier comprising all
operating expenses, debt service and a surcharge to provide a contribution towards new
capital expenditures. Although the two companies are essentially KPLC's cost centers,
they incurred substantial losses up to FYI 992/93. These losses are due to revaluation of
their foreign currency denominated liabilities which are not absorbed in the ascertained
cost calculation until they are realized in the form of increased debt service payments.
5.5   Since the GoK's sub-sector reform objectives include requiring companies to
operate on a commercial basis, the bulk tariffs between the generation company and the
transmission and distribution company would be determined by the ERB on the basis of
LRMC principles and the need to finance at least 20% of the generation company's
investment program during FY1997/98 and FY1998/99 and 25% for each fiscal year
thereafter. The responsibilities and duties of the ERB and the timing for its establishment
are spelt out in the action plan for the legal and regulatory framework for the power sub-
sector.
B. PAST AND PRESENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
5.6   Performance Targets. Under Credit 1973-KE, it was agreed that the power
industry would achieve the following financial targets:
(i) self-financing ratios of 25% in FY1988/89, 27% in FY1990/91 and 30% in
FYI 993/94 and subsequent years;
(ii) debt/equity ratio of 75% in FYI1990/91 and 70% in FYI1991/92 and
subsequent years;
(iii) debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5%; and
(iv) a current ratio of at least 1. 1.
5.7   In practice, monitoring the performance of the sub-sector proved difficult because
of the complex pricing arrangements, lack of clarity on such issues as asset ownership
and debt service obligations. However, the weakness in the sub-sector's performance are
apparent from Table 5.1 which summarizes the principal financial ratios for the



- 33 -
individual companies during FY1990/91 through FYl994/95. Actual financial
statements (FY1994/95) are shown in Annex 5.1 which also shows the projected
performance during FY1995/96 through FY2000/01.
Table 5.1: Principal Financial Ratios for Power Sub-sector Companies2
1990/91    1991/92   1992/93   1993/94    1994/95    1995/96
Capital Structure (D/E Ratio)
(% )                       _  _   _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _   _  _  _   _  _  _  _
KPLC                              52        62         72        56         42         31
KPC                              79         81       109         92        60         41
TRDC                             193       261        776       500        262        191
Debt Service Coverage (times)
KPLC                             0.7        0.8       1.2        2.1        13        5.2
KPC                               1.4       2.2       4.2        1.6       4.1        4.2
TRDC                              1.2       1.1       1.0        1.0       0.7        0.8
Self-Financing Ratio (%)
KPLC                             -22      -125        -34        94         35         31
KPC                                9        81        103        54          0         75
TRDC                             100       100        175       900          0        (18)
Liquidity (Current ratio)
KPLC                             0.9        1.0       1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0
KPC                              0.9        0.8       0.7        0.6       2.0        4.0
TRDC                             0.9        0.8       0.8        0.8       0.8        0.9
5.8    As the ratios above indicate, for the fiscal years up to FY1992/93, the financial
performance of the three power companies was characterized by weakening capital
structures and significant liquidity constraints. In terms of profitability, KPLC's
performance was fairly good compared to the performance of the other two power
companies which experienced significant losses. For the power industry as an entity the
poor financial performance was attributable to low tariffs, high levels of debt service and
the depreciation of the Ksh. The average tariff was not regularly adjusted to fully cover
increased revenue requirements arising from higher operating costs and higher debt
service burden caused by exchange rate movements.
5.9    Chart 5.1 below shows the relative proportions of debt and equity in the capital
structures of the three power companies during fiscal years FY1991/92 through
FY1994/95. The chart demonstrates the weakening financial position of the companies
and the modest recovery that started with the March 1994 tariff increase and the
appreciation of the Ksh in 1995. Also noteworthy are the sharp increases in the
debt/equity ratios of both KPC and TRDC in FY1992/93 due to unrealized foreign
exchange losses which are not considered a cost in the ascertained cost formula until
realized and were therefore not compensated through the bulk tariff.
2 These ratios do not fully capture actual performance since they are based on accounting data which does
not take account of all the operating costs and debt service.



- 34 -
Chart 5.1: Capital Structures of KPLC, KPC AND TRDC (FY92-95)
KPL.C                                         KPC
6 00010,000 A
6,000,
1,000   ^ _   EllDebt                         U -2 0  Debt
19921993 1   1995                         _
TRDC
4000
3000
2000
1000
UDebt
0
-1000                               U Equity I
-2000
-3000 d
1992  1993  1994  1995
5.10   Chart 5.2 below compares the total internal funds that were available for debt
service' in each of the years FY1991/92 through FY1994/95 to the actual debt service
requirements. While both KPC and TRDC were able to meet their debt service costs
during FY1991/92 and FY1992/93, KPLC was able to generate from internal operations
funds to meet only 80% of its debt service costs in FY1991/92. KPC and TRDC were
able to meet their debt service costs during this period because the ascertained formula
guarantees them an adequate tariff to cover all their costs with the exception of unrealized
foreign exchange losses. Since FY1993/94, the debt service coverage ratios have
improved significantly for KPC and KPLC.
3 Total internal funds available for debt service is calculated as the difference between total revenues and
operating costs (excluding depreciation) before adjusting for movements in working capital balances



- 35 -
Chart 5.2: Debt Service Capacity of KPLC, KPC and TRDC
(FY1991/92 - FY1995/96)
KPLC                                         KPC
2,000                                        4.000
1,500   -------E   3,000
C1,0 0   ----     --  -----                   2,000   ^ 
500 =-                                     1,0O0 0
1992 1993 1994 1995 1996                     1992 1993 1994 1995 1996
4Avail. Funds      Debt Servi              i -4-Avail. Funds  -Debt Servicei
TRDC
1,000
800                          .
60006
400 0-n-I   4I
1992 1993 1994 1995 1996
_Avail. Funds r Debt Service +--
5.11   All three companies consistently had low liquidity ratios in the period FY1991/92
- FY1994/95. For KPLC this is because of delays in collecting receivables from final
consumers. As of June 30, 1995 receivables represented about 88 days sales revenue.
Some of the delays in revenue collection are due to problems in billing. A new billing
system has been installed and a contract has been signed with a foreign utility to assist
KPLC in strengthening its operational efficiency (institutional strengthening program)
including improving the metering and billing system. For KPC and TRDC, the liquidity
constraints are caused primarily by slow payments from KPLC. The increased
commercial orientation when the sub-sector is reorganized with separate management for
generation and for transmission and distribution, and KPLC's institutional strengthening
program would help to improve working capital management, thus enabling arrears to be
maintained at levels not exceeding 60 days sales revenue..
5.12   Despite the structural issues noted in paras. 5.1-5.5 and the past poor financial
performance, KPLC, KPC and TRDC have sound accounting systems and procedures,
and KPLC has competent financial management and accounting staff. Thus, financial
statements have been prepared broadly in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles. In spite of this there has been serious delays in submission of audited
financial statements to IDA. Significant improvements in financial management and
auditing are expected to result from: (i) resolution of structural issues related to assets
ownership, debt service responsibility and pricing in the context of the reorganization of



- 36 -
the sub-sector; (ii) the recent exemption of both KPLC and KPC from the provisions of
the State Corporations Act which has enabled KPLC to, amongst other things, appoint
private auditors for FYl996/97; and (iii) KPLC and KPC's commitment to endeavor to
schedule AGMs promptly following the end of each fiscal year. KPLC and KPC audited
accounts for FYI 995/96 were submitted to IDA about seven months and eight and one
half months after the end of the fiscal year respectively. Taking into account past
performance and the expected improvements during negotiations, agreement was
reached that both KPLC and KPC would submit auditedfinancial statements to IDA
within six months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 8.1 (v)).
C. PROJECTED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
5.13  Taken as entity, the financial performance of the power industry started improving
in FYl993/94 when the first tariff increase under the Government's new policy of
economic pricing for electricity was implemented. Projections for the next six years
indicate that the industry's performance would continue to improve due to the increases in
tariffs, assumed slower rate of depreciation of the shilling and improvement in
operational efficiency.
5.14  The key assumptions used in projecting the future financial performance for the
three companies are that: (i) the average tariff would remain 73 percent of LRMC; (ii)
fuel prices would increase by about 7.5% per annum between FY1996/97 and FY1997/98
and 5% per annum thereafter, and a fuel adjustment formula would be applied to recover
effects of fuel price increases through automatic tariff increases; and (iii) domestic
inflation rates would be about 7.5% in FY1996/97 and FY1997/98 and 5% per annum
thereafter. The financial projections assume further increases in the average revenue of
about 12% in FY1997 and about 8% in each of FY1998 and FY1999. The financial
projections are also based on the current practice which requires KPLC to finance the
local currency costs of KPC and TRDC investment programs. These contributions,
called development surcharges are treated as part of the generation companies revenues
(tariff) and are therefore reflected in the self-financing ratios. On the basis of these
assumptions:
(i)    KPC, the main participant in the investment program would generate
modest levels of self-financing, averaging about 20% in the first three
years and declining thereafter. KPC's financial performance would
require an early review of its bulk tariff especially with the phasing out of
the development surcharge system as part of the reorganization. This
would be upon completion of the tariff study in November 1997.
(Similarly KPLC's tariffs to final consumers would require further
adjustments to enable it to achieve the target self financing levels of 25%
in FYl997/98 and FYl998/99 and 30% in each fiscal year thereafter).
TRDC has been merged with KPC as part of the restructuring of the sub-
sector. The process of merging operations is ongoing.



- 37 -
(ii)   The companies' debt service capacity would remain healthy: the result of
the March 1994 tariff increase as well as the increase to about 73% which
is built in the projections.
(iii)  The overall financial health of the companies would be greatly influenced
by the automatic adjustment of tariffs to recover fuel price increases.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the date for
completion of the tariff study (November 30, 1997) andfor implementation of agreed
tariff adjustments during FY1997/98. In addition, KPC would generate adequate funds
from internal operations to finance at least 20% of its individual investment program for
FY1997/98 and 25% thereafter. KPLC would generate adequate funds from internal
operations to finance at least 25% of its individual investment program for FY1997/98
and FY1998/1999 and 30% thereafter (paras.8.1 vii and viii). KPLC would also be
required to maintain their accounts receivable at levels not exceeding 60 days sales
revenue at all times (para. 8.1 (ix). During negotiations, it was agreed to revise the self-
financing targets downwards for FY1997/98 and FY1998/99 to take into account the
heavy investment requirements and the proportion offunding already indicated by
donors.
D.    AN ACTION PLAN FOR FINANCIAL REFORM IN THE ELECTRICITY SUB-SECTOR
5.15  What emerges from the analysis of the historical financial results of the three
power companies is significantly weak performance both in terms of failure to meet the
agreed financial covenants with lenders and in terms of failure to meet the sub-sectors
financing requirements. The financial performance of the power industry suffered
because tariffs were not adjusted to meet increasing operational costs and to meet
increases in debt service obligations arising from exchange rate changes.
5.16  The Action Plan for financial reform therefore includes: (i) establishment of a
regulatory process to set bulk tariffs for the public sector generation company and retail
tariffs to final consumers on the basis of LRMC and financial criteria; (ii) the recent GOK
authorization for KPC to adjust tariffs for changes in price of fuel and in the exchange
rate without reference to ERB; (iii) determination of tariffs from IPPs on the basis of
competitive bidding; and (iv) implementation of efficiency improvements through line
loss reduction; staff reduction; contracting out ancillary services to the private sector and
institution of performance contracts for parastatal companies. As a package of measures,
this action plan should help the power sub-sector to improve its operational and financial
performance and achieve the targets proposed under the Credit. The status of the action
plan is summarized as follows:
(i)    Reorganization of the Sub-sector. (para. 5.3).
(ii)   Autonomy to Adjust Tariffs for Fuel and Exchange Rate Changes. In
1994, the Electricity Bye-laws were amended to provide KPLC, with the
autonomy to adjust electricity tariffs for changes-in-fuel prices. GoK has



- 38 -
also allowed KPLC to adjust tariffs for changes in the cost of debt service
arising from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Ksh with effect from
October 1, 1996.
(iii) Bulk Tariffs. A newly revised Electric Power Act providing for
establishment of an autonomous electricity regulatory board is expected to
be submitted to Parliament by Credit effectiveness (para. 8.2 (i)).
(iv)   Efficiency Improvements. A line-loss reduction component to be
implemented under the project is expected to reduce T&D losses from
about 16% to about 13.5% of net generation in the next five years, thereby
reducing the amount and cost of generation needed to meet demand. A
staff reduction plan implemented by KPLC since 1994 had increased of
KPLC's customer/staff ratio from about 28:1 to 49:1 by the end of 1995.
KPLC has contracted out some ancillary services such as line construction,
cleaning, security and janitorial services. Further options for contracting
vehicle maintenance works, etc., are being considered.
5.17  Implementation of the sub-sector reorganization plan and the financial action plan
would be reviewed during IDA implementation support missions and a major review
would be carried out during project's mid-term review with cofinanciers by June 30,
2000.



- 39 -
6. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A.   OVERALL
6.1    MOE has prepared a Project Implementation Plan (PIP) containing a description
of the main features of the project; implementation arrangements; implementation plan;
and a monitoring and evaluation plan. The PIP would serve as a Handbook to assist
project implementation agencies in the execution of the project. Annex 6.1 shows the
table of contents for the PIP. During project implementation, the PIP would be updated
annually by MOE and reviewed by IDA's implementation support missions. The
implementation arrangements, implementation plan and monitoring and evaluation plan
are summarized below.
B. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
6.2   The Government of Kenya would have overall responsibility for implementation
of the project through MOE, KPLC and KPC. KPC which would become the sole public
sector generation company would implement the generation projects and geothermal
resource development components. KPLC would be responsible for implementation of
distribution systems and some aspects of the efficiency component. A GoK task force
established in early 1997 is allocating staffing among the two companies. The
reorganization is not likely to disrupt implementation of the project. An Implementation
Support Group (ISG) has been established within MOE to oversee the implementation of
the project. The ISG would comprise experts with experience in procurement,
contracting and construction of major projects, and financial management. Selection of
consultants (engineer andfinancial management expert) to complement MOE's own staff
would be completedprior to credit effectiveness (para. 8.2 (iii)). KPC would also, prior
to credit effectiveness, select consultants for its Project Management Teams which would
be responsible for management of the contracting process andfinancial management of
the project (para. 8.2 (iii)).
6.3   The specific responsibilities for project implementation would be as follows:
(a)   Sector Restructuring and Reform Component. MOE would have the
overall responsibility for implementation of the Sector Restructuring
Reform Component. The component would be implemented in
accordance with the timetable shown in Annex 2.1.
(b)   Efficiency Improvements. The loss reduction and demand management
subcomponents would be implemented by KPLC. MOE would implement



- 40 -
the information programs studies and training. Action planning
workshops would be implemented by MOE in cooperation with KPLC.
(c)   Power System Expansion and Rehabilitation. KPC would be
responsible for construction of the power stations to be financed from
traditional public financing sources (Kipevu I Plant, Olkaria Power Plant
and the third unit at Gitaru Hydropower Station). Kipevu II and Olkaria
III would be implemented by project companies to be set up by private
sector investors.
(i)   Kipevu I would be constructed as a turnkey project. The
contractor's responsibility would include construction of the power house
building and all civil works as well as the supply and installation of
engines, generators, substation equipment; etc. KPC has already selected
the supervision consultants and received bids from construction firms.
KPC would have overall responsibility for project management and
control, while providing the required facilities at the construction site.
(ii)   Olkaria North-East Geothermal Power Station (Olkaria II).
KPC would engage consultants to assist with the contract process and with
project management during the construction of this plant. Contractors
would be required for the following six contract packages: civil works;
turbine-generator and auxiliaries; erection of substations; construction of
transmission; steam field development; and relocation of the existing X-2
camp. KPC has prepared bidding documents for all the contract packages,
however, the documents have to be updated.
(iii)  Transmission and Distribution lines would be erected by KPLC
except those required to link the above generation plants to the grid.
Consultants services would be retained to assist with the contracting and
supervision of works.
(d)   Geothermal Assessment and Resource Development. MOE would
carry out geothermal exploration and pre-feasibility studies as part of the
geothermal resource assessment and development program with the
assistance of an Advisory Board of Experts. Consultant firms would be
contracted to execute the geothermal feasibility studies included in the
program. The Advisory Board of Experts would also assist in carrying out
the feasibility studies.
C.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
6.4   The project would be implemented in accordance with the implementation and
procurement schedules in the PIP. The PIP contains the following information:



- 41 -
(i)   detailed descriptions of the project components, budget and
implementation timetable;
(ii)  schedule of procurement actions including target dates for each step,
including standard procurement documents;
(iii)  schedule of disbursements for each component, including financial
reporting and audit requirements;
(iv)   detailed description of the roles and responsibilities of the implementing
agencies;
(v)   key monitoring and performance indicators for each component; and
(vi)  schedule of progress reporting and format of quarterly reports.
D. PROCUREMENT
6.5   Table 6.1 summarizes the project elements, their estimated costs and the proposed
procurement methods. The total value of civil works to be financed under the project is
estimated at US$135.6 million of which US$27.6 million would be financed by IDA.
Annex 6.3 provides a list of goods, studies and consultants services to be financed by IDA.
The goods would include the supply and installation of turbine generator equipment, under
ICB procedures, for Olkaria II Power Plant for which IDA would finance the foreign
exchange costs of about US$41.6 million. Procurement of goods and works in packages
estimated to cost more than US$200,000 would be subject to ICB procedures. Goods
estimated to cost between US$50,000 and US$200,000 up to an aggregate of US$200,000
would be subject to national competitive bidding procedures (NCB), while shopping
procedures would apply to those estimated to cost less than US$50,000 up to an aggregate
of US$200,000. Consultant services of US$25.6 million would be financed by the Credit
out of total consultants services of US$73.1 million. IDA would also finance studies
(US$8.5 million), training (US$1.2 million) and about US$200,000 of incremental
recurrent expenditures. Of the US$27.6 million in civil works to be financed by IDA,
about US$26.79 million would be subject to ICB procedures and the balance of about
US$807,000 would be procured through NCB procedures, such packages being less than
US$200,000 each. For works contracts to be procured under NCB procedures, advertising
including explicit bid evaluation criteria and public bid opening would be followed.
Interested foreign contractors would not be precluded from bidding for contracts let out
under NCB procedures.
6.6   Consulting Services, Training and Studies. Consulting Services, training and
studies to be financed by IDA are estimated to cost a total of US$35.3 million.
Consultants would be recruited in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency,
August 1981.
6.7   Review of Procurement Documentation. During project implementation, IDA-
financed contracts for goods and works above a threshold of US$200,000 would be
subject to IDA's prior review procedures. Contracts for goods and works subject to prior
review are estimated to account for more than 90% of the total value of the contracts. All
contracts for consultants services estimated to cost more than US$100,000 for firms and
US$50,000 for individuals and all training proposals would be subject to prior review.



- 42 -
However, all sole source contracts and extensions within these limits would be subject to
mandatory review. The terms of reference would require IDA's clearance. The IDA
supervision missions would selectively review contracts not subject to prior review. In
all cases, the GoK would submit signed copies of the contracts to IDA before requesting
disbursement.
6.8    KPLC's procurement unit which is attached to the Office of the Chief Project
Development Manager (CPDM) would process contracts for the power generation and
upgrading component and would be supported by consultants to be attached to the
CPDM. Bidding documents have already been prepared by consultants for two of the
four power stations to be constructed and operated by KPC, but would need to be revised
on the basis of the Bank's new standard bidding documents. Pre-qualification would be
required for the civil works and the supply and erect contracts for the turbine-generator
packages to be procured on the basis of ICB procedures and to be financed by IDA. The
ISG would provide overall coordination support, ensuring that accurate progress reports
are prepared and forwarded to IDA and participating donors, updating the PIP and
ensuring the use of the Bank's standard procurement documents.
6.9    Standard procurement processing times have been discussed with the borrower
and the project implementation plan has been prepared on this basis. The borrower
would update the procurement plan annually.
Table 6.1: Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Description       ICB      NCB       Other        Non-Bank          Total
Financed
Civil Works         50.6    0.9                           84.1         135.6
(26.8)    (0.8)                                     (27.6)
Supply & Erect      51.4                                  89.3         140.7
(41.6)                                             (41.6)
Goods               20.4    0.2            0.2           301.3         322.1
(19.9)    (0.2)       (0.2)                         (20.3)
Consultant                                24.5            47.5          72.0
Services                                 (24.5)                         (24.5)
Training                                    1.2                           1.2
_______________   ________   ______(1.2)                      (1.2)
Studies                                    7.6            18.5          26.1
_________________  __________   (7.6)                          (7.6)
Household Survey                           0.2                           0.2
________________  __________    (0.2)                         (0.2)
Refunding of PPF                           2.0                           2.0
________________  __________    (2.0)                          (2.0)
TOTAL               122.4    1.1          35.7           540.7         699.9
1 (88.3)    (1.0)       (35.7)                        (125.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA



- 43 -
E. DISBURSEMENTS
6.10  The IDA Credit would be disbursed against the following categories and on the
basis of the estimated disbursement schedule in Annex 6.4.
Table 6.2: Disbursement Categories
(US$ million equivalent)
Category         Amount of Credit            % of Expenditures
Allocated                 to be financed
Civil Works             25.5            100% of foreign expenditures
Supply & Erect          38.4            100% of foreign expenditures
Consultant Services     23.5            100%
Goods                   19.1            100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of
local expenditures.
Training                 1.1            100%
Studies                  8.6            100%
Household Survey         0.2            100%
PPF Advance              2.0             Amount due
Unallocated              6.6
TOTAL                  125.0
6.11  Disbursements for procurement of goods and works estimated to cost up to
U$200,000 would be made against statement of expenditures (SOE). Other
disbursements would be made against standard documentation. To facilitate payments
from the Credit, the borrower would establish a Special Account and would operate and
maintain it on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The account would have an
initial authorized allocation of US$5 million, approximately equal to three months of
expenditures under the project. The Special Account would be replenished following
application for reimbursement by MOE, together with appropriate supporting
documentation. The amount of IDA replenishment would not exceed the authorized
allocation. The Credit closing date would be June 30, 2004, with physical completion of
works expected by December 31, 2003. Since MOE would process payments under the
credit it would engage a financial management expert (consultant) to work with ISG to,
amongst other functions, facilitate the accounting and the payment process.
6.12  Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) - Disbursements for contracts of goods and
works estimated to cost up to US$200,000 and consulting contracts with firms costing up
to US$100,000 equivalent and up to US$50,000 equivalent with individuals would be
made against statement of expenditures.



- 44 -
F. ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
6.13  During negotiations, it was agreed that MOE, KPC and KPLC would maintain
appropriate records and accounts for expenditures under the project, including SOEs, as
well as the Special Account, in accordance with internationally acceptable accounting
standards, that such records and accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, and that the borrower would provide a certified copy of the auditor 's
report, including a separate opinion on the SOEs, and the Special Account to IDA within
six months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 5.12 and 8.1 (iv)).
G. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
6.14  MOE and IDA would carry out Project monitoring to ensure that the project is
implemented in accordance with the project implementation plan. It would be based on
monthly and quarterly progress reports to be produced by the implementing agencies and
consolidated and verified by the ISG. The contents and format of the reports were
discussed with the implementing agencies during negotiations, it would include: (i)
updated project costs for individual contracts and the total project, including the estimates
of physical and price contingencies; (ii) revised timing of procurement actions including
advertising, bidding, contract award and completion time for individual contracts; (iii)
status of progress for physical works as well as for the institutional and policy reform
components; (iv) implementation of environment mitigation plans for the main
components; and (v) an implementation completion report within six months of the
Credit's closing date.
6.15  IDA would monitor project implementation through field visits, implementation
support missions, reviews of progress reports and consultations with the borrower,
implementing agencies and participating donors. Principal performance indicators
(Annex 7.6), were discussed and agreed with implementing agencies during negotiations,
and will form the basis for performance evaluation. Estimates of the timing of IDA
missions, areas of focus, skills requirements and inputs are provided in Annex 6.5. By
June 30, 2000, the Government would convene a mid-term review meeting to be attended
by cofinanciers and implementing agencies. The objectives of the meeting would be to
review the overall status of project implementation, adherence to the project
implementation plan, and determine any required changes in design or implementation
arrangements needed to ensure achievement of the project's developmental objectives.
Specifically, the review meeting would focus on the status of progress in: (i) adjustment
of tariffs towards satisfying the power sub-sector's financial objectives and LRMC; (ii)
attracting private sector participation in power generation and management of operations;
and (iii) restructuring the organization of the power subsector to improve operating
efficiency and transparency in financial relations between operating entities.



-45 -
7. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
AND RISKS
A.    OVERALL
7.1   This project is an integral part of the Kenya CAS, presented to the Board in
January 1996. The CAS focuses on reducing poverty through improved economic
growth. It identified the proposed project as a priority in terms that it would contribute to
poverty reduction by stimulating economic growth through: (i) the improvement and
expansion of basic infrastructure, which is critical to both improving the efficiency of
existing private sector investment and attracting new private investment; (ii)
improvement of public sector efficiency; and (iii) promotion of private participation in
power supply.
7.2   In line with the objectives of the CAS, the proposed project aims to: (i) eliminate
electricity shortages which are a key bottleneck to economic growth by assisting in
financing high priority least-cost investments in generation, transmission and distribution
facilities; (ii) support the implementation of parastatal reforms through the restructuring
of the power sub-sector and commercialization of existing corporations; (iii) create an
enabling policy and regulatory environment for private sector investment and
management; (iv) raise tariffs to cost recovery levels and restrict cross-subsidies to only
the basic needs of the poor consumers; and (v) promote greater efficiency in energy
supply and end-use.
7.3   The proposed project is part of Kenya's FY95 - FY2013 least-cost generation
expansion plan required to meet the demand up to FY2004 l. The project is technically,
financially and economically sound and is thus justified for financing. Its technical
design has been carried out by experienced international consultants and reviewed by the
Bank. The discounted present value of the project's net economic benefits is US $344
million, and the internal economic rate of return (ERR) is 17.3 percent, which is higher
that the opportunity cost of capital (12%). In addition, the project has a positive fiscal
impact (para 7.20). The salient features of the economic analysis for the power sub-
sector investments are discussed below.
IThe least-cost generation plan was prepared by KPLC, confirmed by independent consultants, and
reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank (available in project files).



- 46 -
B.    NEED FOR THE PROJECT, ITS SIZE AND TIMING
7.4    Need. The forecasts of electricity demand indicate that there will be sufficient
demand to absorb the output from the project facilities. The reference forecast (Table
7.1), which -- in line with the base case macro economic scenario in the CAS -- is based
on a 5.5 percent average annual economic growth, translates into an average increase in
electricity sales of about 5.6 percent per year, and an average annual growth in system
peak of about 6 percent. This is reasonable in light of the historical growth rates of the
same magnitude, and considering that there is currently significant suppressed consumer
demand waiting to be served. The forecast takes account of the growth moderating
impact of energy efficiency and demand management measures to be implemented under
the project, and tariff increases. A detailed forecast is available in the Project Files.
Table 7. 1. Reference Electricity Demand Forecast (Interconnected System)
Avg. Annual Growth
1995/96  1997/98  2000/01  2005/06   2011   1996-2011
Sales forecast with DSM GWh  3,391   3,722  4,346    5,785    7,753    5.6%
Losses GWh (Transmission &
Distribution Losses & Station
Use)                        709    730       769      987    1,313       n/a
Generation requirement GWh  4,100   4,452   5,115    6,772    9,066    5.4%
System Peak MW              648    755       872    1,157    1,562     6.0%
Load factor (%)           72.2%   67.3%     67%    66.8%    66.3%        n/a
Source: KPLC
7.5    As Table 7.1 shows, the required generation is expected to rise slightly slower
than sales, owing to a reduction in transmission and distribution losses from about 16
percent of net generation in the interconnected system in FY96 to around 14 percent of
net generation by FY2002. This would be the result of the installation of two diesel units
at Kipevu, Mombasa -- to reduce longhaul transmission -, network reinforcement and loss
reduction investments under the proposed project.
7.6    Size. The project facilities - five generating plants - will provide a total of 338
MW of new capacity and upto 2,200 GWh of electric energy annually. In addition, the
60 MW Sondu Miriu hydro plant, to be constructed in parallel with the project, will
provide, on average, some 310 GWh of annual energy. The new facilities will replace
about 70 MW of old, inefficient thermal plant at Kipevu and Nairobi. With the net
addition of 328 MW, Kenya's power system will, under average hydrological conditions,
be sufficient to meet consumer demand through the year 2004, whereafter new capacity
has to be installed (paras 3.10 & 3. 11).
7.7    Timing. The project is critically needed. All the investments are required as
soon as possible to prevent continued load shedding (para 1.7 & 3.11).



- 47 -
C.    ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
7.8   Project economic rate of return (ERR) is calculated at about 17.3 %. The ERR
was calculated for the incremental net benefits after identifying the project's economic
costs and benefits as the difference between inputs and outputs with and without the
project. In the "without the project" case, system demand is not met even at the current
level, whereas "with the project", the forecast system peak and energy demand are met
through the year 2004 (Annex 7.2). In addition to new generation capacity, the energy
available for sale under the proposed project is augmented by the investments in loss
reduction measures. The distribution network rehabilitation and loss reduction
components of the project are justified also on a stand-alone basis. According to the
ESMAP report "Kenya Power Loss Reduction Study" (No. 186/96), the proposed
investments in the Nairobi and the Coastal areas have benefit/cost ratios of 21 and 27
respectively.
7.9   Economic Benefits. The measurable economic benefits of the proposed project
are two fold: (i) increased electricity sales made possible by the planned investments; and
(ii) fuel cost savings resulting from the replacement of the old and inefficient steam plants
and gas turbines by modern diesel plants burning lower value fuel. The benefits from
incremental sales are calculated as the difference between the forecast sales with and
without the project. The value of the benefits from incremental sales includes an estimate
of consumer surplus, i.e the benefit of increased consumption because of the availability
of lower cost electricity, indicated by consumers' willingness to pay for electricity service
over and above what they actually pay to KPLC. The analysis uses an average
willingness to pay for all consumer categories equivalent to about US cents 14 per kWh
in mid-1995 prices. With KPLC's current average tariff of about US cents 9.1 per kWh,
the consumer surplus is estimated at about 4.9 US cents/kWh (Annex 7.3 ). The fuel cost
savings are similarly calculated as the difference in fuel costs with and without the project
and valued at border parity prices. These savings are the result of the greater efficiency
of the new plants, and the substitution of the presently used gas oil and jet fuel by lower
value fuel oil, that will cut the average fuel cost per kWh.
7.10  Economic Costs. The economic costs of the proposed project comprise: (i)
investment in generation plant, transmission, and distribution required to meet
incremental demand and replace output from retired units. These costs include not only
the investments under the proposed Project, but also the Sondu Miriu hydro power plant
to be financed outside of the project as well as additional transmission and distribution
investments required for which KPLC will seek financing outside of the project; (ii)
incremental operation and maintenance costs; and (iii) incremental fuel costs. Economic
costs are expressed in mid 1995 prices net of taxes and duties (Annex 7.2).
7.11  Switching Values and Sensitivity Analysis. The switching values were
calculated for four critical parameters as noted in Table 7.2. The results indicate that
project economics are robust with respect to increases in investment, operation and



- 48 -
maintenance cost, and fuel costs, but that they show sensitivity to the demand forecast
and the value of benefits. Given that currently the demand is suppressed because of
supply constraints, the risk of overestimated sales is small. Regarding the value of
benefits, the estimated value is between KPLC's current tariff and the cost of alternatives
to grid electricity. It is, therefore, considered to reflect the consumer surplus adequately
(Annex 7.3).
Table 7.2. Switching Values
Parameter                                                            Percent change required to turn
NPV negative @12% discount
Electricity sales                                                                 -18%
Capital cost                                                                     +50%
O&M cost                                                                         +290%
Fuel cost                                                                        +500%
Willingness to pay                                                           -28% (US$0.10)
7.12    Graph 7.1 below, illustrates the sensitivity of the ERR to various percentage changes in
four parameters: capital investment cost, O&M cost, electricity sales; and willingness to pay.
Graph 7.1. Sensitivity of ERR to Various Percentage Changes in Parameters
30.0%
27.0%    ;       ----  -  - -  ^0- ----  -  -    -  -- ------   --  --.----
24.0%       --a   ----    ------ -- -  ----  -  - -0------    -La i-- 0- -v
21.0%          .                  -  -                    --------
1 8.0%    I                                     ---- ---  -- -----------  +-Investrnent cost
15.0% -_I ------&Mcost|
z  15.0%                             :fr 0 X       :  z__                    Sales
12.0%  -              -- -                   L-*(--WTP
9 .0 %            --a  -- -   --   -- - - - - - -   -- --   -- --   -- - - -- --
6.0%   .-                    -            .    ..
0.0%  I                  l         I
-50%      -30%      -10%       1       +10%      +30%      +50%
Percentage change in parameter
7.13    With regard to the impact of possible delays in project implementation, the
sensitivity analysis indicated that project economics are relatively insensitive to moderate
delays. Given, however, that the Kenyan economy is already suffering from power



- 49 -
shortages, a delay in the commissioning of the generating plants would mean continued
electricity rationing and subsequently lowered prospects for economic growth.
Minimizing delays for the diesel and geothermal plants, especially Kipevu I and Olkaria
II - planned to be commissioned in 1999 and 2000 respectively - is particularly important
because these plants are in the forefront of the investment program. In contrast, a one
year delay in the commissioning of the hydro plants would have a less critical impact on
the economy, because part of the lost output could be compensated for by the diesels if
they are installed according to plan, however, at a higher cost.
7.14  The likelihood for delays is largest for plants for which financing has not yet been
identified, i.e., Kipevu II, and Olkaria III. Although negotiations with successful bidders
are expected to start shortly, negotiations may be protracted or rebidding may be required
in one case. To mitigate the risk of delays, the project preparation facility has financed
consultants to prepare the bidding documents and assist the Government in the
negotiations with the successful bidder (para. 7. 1 8).
7.15  Quantitative Risk Analysis. The quantitative risk analysis produces a
probability distribution for the ERR and the NPV based on the interaction among key
variables and the shape of the probability distribution of the variables. The main risks
affecting the project's economic outcome include: (i) deterioration in Kenya's economic
situation which would reduce the demand for electricity making the investments
premature; (ii) the value of benefits; (iii) delays in the commissioning of generation
facilities; and (iv) investment cost. The analysis used probabilistic risk analysis software
using Monte Carlo simulation to determine the probability distributions for the ERR and
the NPV. The results of the analysis implied an 80 percent probability of a positive NPV.
The probability of a negative return for the project is thus an acceptable 20 percent.
Lower than expected electricity sales growth rates, significant delays in the
commissioning of the facilities and lower than expected willingness to pay would
contribute to the negative NPV (Annex 7.4).
7.16   Other Benefits of the Project. In addition to the benefits discussed above, the
power restructuring and reform component will contribute to improving the efficiency of
the sector so as to increase its contribution to the country's overall economic
development. The project will help develop sound energy sector policies and regulatory
frameworks, which will create an enabling environment for private investment and
management. The project will assist Kenya to restructure the energy sector for increased
operational efficiency and establish economic pricing of energy. It will also assist in
establishing two privately owned and operated power generating plants, and to build
investor confidence in Kenya's energy sector. Training and technical assistance provided
under the project will help improve the human capabilities in the energy sector.
D.    RISK MITIGATION
7.17   Although the risk analysis indicated that the probability of a negative NPV is not
significant, project design and implementation were formulated to mitigate the risks of



- 50 -
unfavorable outcomes. With respect to the deteriorating economic performance which
could result in lower than forecast demand for electricity - the Bank's continued broad
policy dialogue on the macroeconomic reform program, will help focusing the
Government's macroeconomic reforms on maintaining stability. Project design allows a
limited possibility to delay construction of plants for which contracts have not been
signed, in case of drastically lower than expected demand growth - an unlikely scenario.
7.18  The risk associated with delays in the commissioning of facilities has been
reduced for the publicly financed projects by preparing the bidding documents before
Board presentation. In addition, KPC's track record in project implementation is fairly
good. Nevertheless, given the large size of the Project, it will provide consultant and
advisory services for project implementation, engineering and financial management. For
the privately financed, IPP projects, the risk of delays has been partially reduced, through
financing under the Project Preparation Facility for consultant services for the preparation
of bidding documents. They were issued in July 1996, and several bids were received at
the bid closing date in November 1996. In addition, the agreed changes in the legal and
regulatory framework should contribute to increased investor confidence. Another risk is
delay in mobilizing the corresponding local financing requirements, that could lead to
implementation delays. The agreement on annual reviews of the investment program and
related financing plans is designed to minimize this risk. The agreed power sector
restructuring will also assist in improving the operational efficiency and financial
situation of the implementing agencies. Finally, IDA's continued macroeconomic
dialogue will help in keeping retail and bulk tariff adjustments on track to insure adequate
counterpart funding. The agreement on an action plan for the implementation of
adequate adjustments based on a Tariff Study - to be completed by November 1997 - is a
condition for the second tranche release of the SAC (para 3.21).
7.19  The capital equipment of the project comprise mainly of standard equipment and
the civil works are not significant, indicating a moderate risk for cost over-runs. To
mitigate these risks, the cost estimates include adequate contingencies
E.   FISCAL IMPACT AND SUSTAINABILITY
7.20  The proposed project has a positive fiscal impact (Annex 7.5). The net present
value of the project's contribution to Government budget is estimated at about US$ 160
million over a twenty year period. On average, the annual net revenue to the Government
is about US $30 million (about 0.5% of GDP). The main source of the revenue to the
Government from the proposed project is the margin between the interest rates KPLC and
KPC pay the Government on the relend proceeds and the concessional interest rates the
Government pays IDA, EIB and KfW. In addition, the Government would receive
increased revenue from corporate taxes and VAT on the incremental electricity sales.
The project will not crowd out public expenditures on other development programs, such
as health and education, because no counterpart funding is provided from the
Government budget (it is provided by the implementing agencies from their internal cash



- 51 -
generation). The proposed project would not affect domestic interest rates, neither would
it crowd out domestic borrowing: It is roughly estimated that US $50 million of the
about US $260 million in private equity and commercial debt for the financing of the
IPPs, would be raised within Kenya. This is a small share of the about US $3 billion in
outstanding credit to the private sector from the financial sector as a whole in mid-1996.
Furthermore, on an annual basis, the project's domestic borrowing would be only about
1/2 percent of the outstanding stock.
7.21   The structure of the proposed project is favorable for sustainability, because all
key stakeholders have an incentive to see that it succeeds. For instance: (i) the project's
positive fiscal impact should provide an incentive for the Government to solidly support
it; (ii) the project would provide both KPLC and KPC urgently needed financing for
priority investments, thus enabling them to reduce the cost of supply and sell more
electricity; and (iii) the electricity end-users would gain because of increased and more
reliable power supply. Finally, the project would create 3,000 - 4,000 temporary
construction jobs.



- 52 -
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
8.1   During negotiations agreement was reached on the following:
(i)   the Government and IDA would review the power sub-sector's five-year
rolling investment plan by March 31 of each year (para. 3.27) and the
GoK would not undertake any single capital investment in new facilities of
more than US$10 million (including investments by independent power
producers) outside the agreed plan without prior consultation with IDA;
(ii)   adequate analysis of environmental impacts would be carried out for all
future power subsector projects and appropriate mitigation plans would be
developed and carried out (para. 4.16);
(iii)  KPC would establish and maintain Project Management Teams
comprising staff (including consultants) with experience in procurement,
contract management and project finance, to assist with the management
of its components (para. 6.2);
(iv)   KPC and KPLC would maintain adequate accounting records and
supporting documentation for expenditures related to the project (project
accounts) and would have them audited, within six months of the end of
each fiscal year, by independent auditors on the basis of terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association (para. 5.12 and 6.13);
(v)   KPC and KPLC would submit to IDA, financial statements covering their
respective total operations, audited on the basis of terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA, within six months of the end of each fiscal year (para.
5.12);
(vi)   KPC would employ consultants in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines,
to assist with the design and supervision of its components (para. 6.2);
(vii)  KPC would generate adequate funds from internal operations to finance at
least 20% of its investment program in FYI 997/98 and 25% in each fiscal
year thereafter (para 5.14);



- 53 -
(viii) KPLC would generate adequate funds from internal operations to finance
at least 25% of its individual investment program for FY1997/98 and
FY1998/1999 and 30% thereafter (para 5.14);
(ix)   KPC and KPLC would maintain their accounts receivable at levels not
exceeding 60 days sales revenue at any time (para. 5.14);
(x)   the Government shall complete an update of its 1993 Electricity Tariff
Study no later than November 30, 1997 and shall implement the agreed
recommendations (para. 5.14); and
(xi)  the Borrower shall take all steps necessary to ensure the movement of
wildlife within the Olkaria area and between Olkaria and Hells Gate and
Longonot Park in accordance with the agreement between KPC and KWS
dated September 20, 1994 (para. 4.13).
8.2   The following are the conditions for Credit Effectiveness:
(i)   submission to the Borrower's Parliament of amendments to the Electric
Power Act providing for the establishment an autonomous Electricity
Regulatory Board (paras. 2.6, 3.26 and 5.16);
(ii)   execution of subsidiary loan agreements between KPLC and KPC and the
Government (para. 4.8); and
(iii)  MOE and KPC have selected consultants for their PISG and Project
Management Teams (para. 6.2).
Recommendation
8.3   Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the project is suitable for a Credit
to the Government of Kenya in the amount of SDR 86.6 million (US$125.0 million)
equivalent, on standard IDA terms.



Annex 2.1
Page 1 of 4
KENYA
Energy Sector Reform and Power Development Project
Action Plan for Restructuring of the Power Sub-Sector
ACTIVITY          1                SPECIFIC ACTION          T            TIMING
A.  Merger of TRDC and KPC   I .   Obtaining consents from creditors    T
A. Merger of TRD  and KPC I   KPC and TRDC
All consents have been obtained.     Started on 2/5/96 anid completed
on 7/8/96.
2.  Obtaining consent from the Minister for  15/7/96-29/11/96
Finance in light of the likely
infringement of the Restrictive Trade
Practices, Monopolies and Price
Control Act, Cap 504 of the Laws of
Kenya by the proposed merger of
TRDC and KPC. This is a four step
process entailing:
(i)   Leteers from KPC and TRl-  to
Minister for Finance through the
Monopolies and Prices
Commissioner requesting for the
Minister's approval of the
intended merger.
(ii) Consultations, if any between
Minister for Finance,
Monopolies and Prices
Commissioner and KPC/TRDC
on intended merger.
(iii) Grant of the approval by the
Minister
(iv) Publication of approval by
ministerial order in the Gazette
A.  Merger of TRDC and         3.  Obtaining approvals of the Treasury    16/8/96-29/11/96
KPC.                           and of the Minister for Energy for
transfer of assets and liabilities of
TRDC to KPC (Sections 11 and 13 of
State Corporation Act, Cap 446). This
is a two step action entailing:
(i)   Letter from KPC and TRDC to    16/8/96-19/8/96
Minister for Energy and Minister  Done.
for Finance for requesting for
approval of intended transfer of



Annex 2.1
Page 2 of 4
ACTIVITY                           SPECIFIC ACTION                       TIMING
assets and liabilities, in
accordance with the provisions
of Cap 446 (Section 11 and 13).
(ii)   Consents of Minister for Finance   20/8/96-29/11/96
and Minister for Energy to the
intended transfer of assets and
liabilities.
4.  TRDC Board to pass a resolution for   2/9/96-13/9/96
transfer of TRDC's assets and liabilities
to KPC.
5.  An Extra-ordinary General Meeting of   13/9/96-11/10/96
TRDC to pass a special resolution for    Done.
transfer of its assets and liabilities to
KPC.
6.  KPC Board to pass a resolution of     2/9/96-13/9/96
accepting the transfer of TRDC's assets  Done.
and liabilities to KPC.
7.  Joint agreement between KPC and       12/10/96-15/12/96
TRDC for the transfer of assets and
liabilities to KPC.
8.  Joint notice by KPC and TRDC of the    31/12/96
transfer of assets liabilities and business
under the Transfer of Business ACT,
Cap 500.
9.  An Extra-ordinary General Meeting of   By 31/1/97
TRDC to pass a special resolution to
wind the company up and appoint a
liquidator.
10  Issuance of Gazette Notice and        By 15/2/97
Advertisement in the local dailies of the
special resolution to wind up TRDC.
11  TRDC to voluntarily wind up.          31/3/97
Appointment of new KPC    1.  Appointment of a Managing Director    Done - January 1997
Board.                         for the new KPC.
2.  Appointment of Chairman and other     Done - January 1997
_         _       _      _           Board members.                         _       _       _
Appointment of personnel  1.  Appointment of a Task Force           Done - January 1997
for KPC                        (comprising the Mds of KPLC and KPC
and representatives of MOE, MOF and
l ___________________________ l      DPM)_to  identify  appropriate personnel   |_l



Annex 2.1
Page 3 of 4
ACTIVITY                              SPECIFIC ACTION                         TIMING
from existing KPLC staff establishment
for transfer to KPC.
2.   Identify and transfer of identified     1/3/97-31/5/97
personnel to KPC from KPLC.
3.   Recruitment of staff shortfalls by KPC    From 1/6/97 onwards
Board.
Location of offices for          MD for KPC and his key staff to look     1/3/97-30/6/97
KPC.                             for appropriate accommodation for the
company and move in.
Recruitment of Specialists       Appointnent of Specialists to assist in    1/3/97-31/5/97
the transfer of assets and liabilities and
in the preparation of Power Purchase
Agreements (PPAs).
Transfer of TARDA's         I .  Generating assets belonging to TARDA    1/3/97-31/10/97
generating assets and            to be transferred to KPC on historical
liabilities to KPC and           cost basis as per EDF's
assets transfer pricing          recommendations.
principle.
2.   All existing liabilities associated with
TARDA's generating assets to be
transferred to KPC at their current
values.
3.   KPLC will cease to service the debt
obligations for Kiambere
liabilities to KPC.
Transfer of Turkwell's      1.   The Turkwell Gorge multipurpose          1/3/97-31/10/97
generating assets and            project generating assets to be
liabilities to KPC and           transferred to KPC on historical cost
assets transfer pricing          basis as per EDF's recommendations.
principle.
2.   Transfer value of liabilities associated
with the generating facilities of the
Turkwell Gorge project to be based on
the replacement cost of the assets. This
approach is being used because
Turkwell loans are being serviced by
the Treasury and limiting the level of
liabilities to historical costs of the assets
would impact negatively on the fiscal
|__ _ __   budget.                           l_l
3.   Treasury and KPC to work out
modalities for servicing of such
liabilities over a twenty year period
from the date of commercial operation   |_l



Annex 2.1
Page 4 of 4
ACTIVITY          1                SPECIFIC ACTION                       TIMING
I     of the Turkwell Gorge project.
Transfer of assets and    I .  Transfer of assets between KPLC and
liabilities between KPLC       KPC to be effected on the basis of
and the new KPC and            replacement costs, taking into account
assets transfer pricing        useful lifespans of the assets involved.
principle.                     This approach is being used as opposed
to effecting transfer on historical costs
basis because KPLC is not wholly
Govcrnment owned.
2.  Transfer of liabilities belween the two
companies to be effected on the basis of
their current values.
Termination of            I1.  All management agreements between     1/3/97-31/10/97
management agreements.         KPLC on one hand and KPC and
TRDC on the other, to be terminated
upon full operation of the new KPC.
2.  Agreements between KPLC and
TARDA for mianagement of the
gene,atitig I sets to he terron?,te(I opln
transfer of assets te and ful' operation
ot, new KrC.
3.   Management of Turkwell generating
assets by KPLC will cease upon transfer
of the generating assets to and full
operation of, new KPC.
Rural Electrification     KPLC to be fully reimbursed for all capital    Continuous
Programme                 expenditures and recurrent costs for rural
electrification programme. This
understanding to be reflected in a
performance contract to be signed between
KPLC and GOK.
Dam monitoring,           Both KVDA and TARDA will be fully          Already being done on a
catchment presentation and  compensated on an annual basis for       continuous basis.
security                  expenditures on dam monitoring and
maintenance, catchment preservation and
security.
Power Purchase            PPAs to be prepared by KPLC, negotiated    113/97-30/6/97
Agreements (PPAs)         with KPC and signed by the two companies.



KENYA                                                                                                                                       Annex 3.1
ENERGY SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT                                                                                                            Page 1 of 1
ENERGY BALANCE 1994
000 Tonnes of ON EqitAvlent (tool
; ,   4'.'$;"', ~ ~ ootilwa cog a !o           #.Wyo  cm    odS Cn*O w cm>   0tt, one"  Iktewss' ok 1  , .  et    ,       y t  'udWr      Reskk       Co  to  Traditionalt Commenrcrial oS
SUPPLIES
Indigenous Production            73           0    776          0       0        0        0        0        n        0          0   10,793          0         0    10,793        848      11.642
knport                                       87             2.090       0      132      142      291       (r   2,655          16         0         0         0          0      2.756     2758
Export                                        0                        1421    1491    (54)    1231        It)    (1to1         0         0         0         0          0       1168)      t16SI
Bunkers                                                                                                               0
IG oss Suppl                      73          87    778      2,090     t421      54       Be      268       tl)   2,487          Iff   10,793       n/a             10.793      3,439    1-4,232
CONVURSION
P.tro)um Refinkin                             0             2.0901    005      533      339      425       31      1S56)         0        0         0         0          0       11561      (1561
ChwcodProduction                              0                 0       0        0        0        0        0         0          0    11,1781       0       252       (9261         0       19261
Power Georton Hydro                           0    t7761                                                              0       267         0         0         0          0       (5091     (5091
Power GwnwOaton 0   ltvnmd                    0                 0      1631     (01    (201        0        0       (631       24         0         0         0          0        (S8R      (581
Power genaration Goo tthrm      1731                                             0                                    0        25                                                 (48)
Losses                                        0                 0       0        0        0        0        0         0        1431        0        0         0          0        (431       143)
ErrorS                                                                   0       0        0        0      '0                                                                        0          0
CONSU11117"
industry                                     67                       356       47        a        6        5      420         122      481                   0        481        629      1.109
Transport                                     0                          4     426      372      450        0     1.252        nfl         0                  0          0      1.252      1.252
Agacutture                                    0                        39       32        4        2        0        78         nl/      317                  0        117         78        395
Houselvold                                    0                         0        0        0      223       20       243         90     .8817                199      9.316        333      9,349
Connwerc. , Othwr                             0                       102      II1       25       13        6       256         78         0                 52         52        334        386
Total Corsuption                  0          67       0         0     501      616      407      693       31     2.249       289      9,615        nts     252      9,867      2.625     12,492
%of TotalEnergy                 0%           1%     0%        0%       4%       5%       3%      6%       0%       16%         2%       "7%        0%        2%        79%       21%       100%
%ofComnwerdaEnerry               0%         3%      0%        0%      19%      23%      16%     26%        1%      86%        11%                                               100%
Soumces. Mitthbrv of Enrrgy end mission osth,ats
ENERGY COUsJMPYTI   DV CONSUMER CATEGORY
% of       % of
Category                     Total   Commercia
Industry                         9%        24%
Transport                       10%        46%
Household                       75%         13%
Commerc & Others                 6%         16%
Sum                           100%        100%                                                                                                                                                  0W
Per coplt Commercial Energy Consumption:           0.10 toe/capita
Per capit Total tneegy Consumption:                0 48 too/capita
Peo capita Electricity Consumption:                 129 kWh/capita
Pei capits Patrotoum Products Consumption:           87 kg/capti



Annex 3.2
Page 1 of 1
KENYA
ENERGY SECTOR REFORM AND POWER DEVELOPUAENT PROJECT
1. ELECTRICrTY COMSUMPTION GWh
86/87   87188   88189   89'90   90/91   91t92   92!93   93/94   94/95   9596
Domest c *,aI. conmmocla' and Mdusl'41    633     678     729      780     823     877     928      977   1.026     993
Chsnne rfro  c*'ous Year %                       7%      8%      7%      6%       7%      6%      S%       1%      3%
Sna'ec lots %                         287%   290%   301%   301%   304%   31 8%   320%   326%   332%   3055%
Med,ou, co-rtmca 8r1 -dusr,a             536     555      516     554     585     567     564      559     569     660
Cnange fron Dov,dous "a' %                       4%      7%      7%       6%      3%     11%      -1%      2%     16%
Share o! iota %                       24.3%   23 7%   21 3%   21 3%   21 6%   20 5%   19 4%   18 7%   184%   20 3%
Large co-vmrrcwa and -cuSt'ia             919     985    1046    1130    1178    1198   '281    1326   1 356    1492
Change fro, osraouos weaa %                      7%      6%      8%       4%      2%      7%       4%      2%     S0%
SnhrO ol Iota %                       41 6%   42 1%   43.3%   43.5%   43 5%   43 4%   44 2%   44 2%   43 9%   45 9%
OfftDesk                                  III    110       113     117     109      104     115     125      119      92
Change from oer",ous Year %                      .1%     3%       4%     -7%     -5%     11%       9%     *5%    .23%
Share of tota5 S                       S 0%    4 7%    47%    45%    4 0%    3 8%    4 0%    42%    3 9%    2 8%
Strea L,ghtrng                              9       12      14      14      14       14      13      10       18      15
Change from  r,av.ous Year %                    33%     17%       0%      0%      0%      -7%    -23%     85%     19%
Share of tolai %                       0 4%    0.5%    0 6%    0.5%    0 5%    0.5%    0 4%    0 3%    0 6%    0 5%
TOTAL SALES OWh tKPLC)                   2.208   2.340   2.418   2.59S   2.709   2.760   2.901   2.997   3.089   3.252
Change trom pravous Year %                       6%      3%       7%      4%      2%      5%       3%      3%      5%
Rural Electrof.caton aers (REF) GWh        25       36      49      66      76       85     104     138      134     150
GDP growth rate in -FY trmsa            5.2%    1.0%    6.1%    4.7%    2.8%    0.3%   -0.2%    2.2%    4.5%    5.0%
GOP aluticrny                                     1.2     0 7     1.6      1.6     6.3   -25.5     1.5      0.7     1 1
2. NtJMEW  OF CONSUMERS
Number of Coumr4   (KPLCI             213.600 223.718 234.674 246,348 262.521 277.622 294.520 310.916 321.738 316.024
Nua of Consumws (REF)                    8.706  11,494  15,132  19.067  24.491  29.513  34.561  40.731  43.718  50.306
Ntumberof R AldntsslCoa4umne           177J171 187,159 197,612 206,023 224.611 239.816 256.128 272.217 2UH.116 307,518
Total Popustaon mllional,                 21.7    22.4    23.2    23.7    24.5    25.2    26.0    26.B    27.5    28.3
t4efcataon rate % of poulation           51.7%    5.8%    6.0%    6.2%    6.4%    6.7%    6.3%    7.1%    7.3%    7.8%
Conwtmt. on perC.pirtsf1Wheai*ts)        102.9   10.1   106.3   112.3   113.7   112.9   115.6   117.0   117.2   120.2
2. GENEATON OWih
SS/37   6711111  683    38/30   60K131   31132   32133    3/94   34/1    3195/"6
Hydro                                    1.793   2.036   2.449   2,517   2.760   2.776   2.972   3.04t   3,103   3.163
Imports                                   211      154     112     174      134     240     273     264      187     149
Od Tharmal (Kiru)                          I"      206      25      37       74      75      59     140      218     224
G.otiaermal lOlkaitl                      374      34      322     336      236     272     272     261      291     330
Gs TurelNba-cou.h Kpowvl                   44      85       21      10      21        3       2        2      47     171
otass                                        5       3       2       2      0.3       3     0.2       0        2       2
Wand Tuwb4.                                                                                            I       1       1
Total hlntrconr. ctd                    2.516   2,lO   2.331   3.136   3.2t7   3.36t   3.578   3,716   3,348   4,100
leotd dysxtm                                 3      10      11      12       14     1       20       17      17      19
GROU  GENERATION                         2.604   2.JJ6   2.942   3.118   3.301   3.316   3,St   3.732   3.966   4.113
Auxeryc oaumaaton                           23      43      27       3       383     30      2S       3t      45      52
NEtT GENEATIOTM                          2.86   2.7        LO .S 3,116   3.6    3261   3.536   3.3    31t21   4.067
System Lte                                 347    407    448       48      484      51D0    6114    5o       53"      66
la  as % of nt gan                    13.5%   14.E%   15.4%   14.6%   14.8%   16.2%   1$.8%   11.2%   15.7%   16.4%
Sala KPIC                                2.206   2.340   2.418   2.5111t  2.708   2.780   2.901   2.937   3.069   3.252
Sala REF                                   21       26      48      67       7       tl     104      13i     134     1S0
3 GENERATION 60tJUl
lvdro                                   63.1%   72.4%   t3.6%   30.3%   U4.0%   82.4%   t3.1% S    2.0%   60.6%   77.1%
hwpu                                     6.1%    5.5%    3.8%    1.1%    4.1%    7.1%    7.6%    7.1%    4.93    3.6%
04 Th_mal Wapul .5%    7.4%    0.%    3.1%    2.3%    2.2%   1t.%    3.S%    B.7%    5.6%
G.otheta tOtisrs)                       14.4%   12.4%   11.0%   10.7%    9.1%    E.1%    7.6%    7.0%    7.5%    9.5%
Ga TurIa Itib-south. )Kiparval            1.7%    2.3%    0.7%    0.3%    0.6%    0.1%    0.1%    0.0%    1.2%    4.2%
tea                                      0.2%    0.1%    0.1%    0.1%    0.0%    0.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
Wind Tia                                                                                                    0.0%    0.0%
antacoawactad of total gora gan         3.7%   n.6%   33.6%   n3.6%   8.6%   33.1%   39.4%    3.5%   911.6%   3.6%
solated *natae of total ora  at           0.3%    0.4%    0.4%    0.4%    0.4%    0.5%    0.6%    0.5%    0.4%    0.5%
4. SYSTEM  MEAt 8W                         430     481     480      320     IgO     646    5Uh       O12      Ot6    64t
Changeft=mpraoeuY.r"%                             7%      4%       8%      6%      3%       5%      3%      .1%      7%
S. LOAD FACTORt                         64.4%    4.3%   6311.3%   64.4%   67.5%   67.7%   63.4%   64.3%   72.1%   71.6%
1/ 113136gm,. p ena
Ssures: KPLC



Annex 3.3
Page lof 1
KENYA
Available Generating Capacity and Generation in 1994/95
Station              Owner         Installed Capacity  Effective Capacity    Energy Produced
in MW       Capacity in MW        1994/1995 in GWh
Hydro
Tana                 KPC                   14.4              12.4                 78
Wanjii               KPC                    7.4               7.4                 27
Kamburu            TRDC                    91.5              84.0                485
Gitaru              TRDC                  145.0             120.0                704
Kindaruma          TRDC                    44.0              44.0                213
Various             KPLC                    6.2               5.7                 22
Masinga           TARDA                    40.0              40.0                200
Kiambere          TARDA                   144.0             144.0                996
Turkwel                                   106.0             106.0                379
Thermal
Kipevu              KPLC                   93.0              86.0                218
Geothermal
Olkaria              KPC                   45.0              45.0                291
Gas Turbine
Nairobi South       KPLC                    13.5             10.0                  16
Kipevu              KPLC                   30.0              30.0                 31
Diesel
Various             KPLC                    4.0               2.0                  2
Wind Turbine
Ngong               KPLC                   0.35              0.35                   1
Isolated Stations   KPLC                    7.3               6.7                  17
Imports from UEB                           30.0       off peak only               187
Total                                      821.7            743.4               3,866
Source: KPLC



21-NOV.' 96(THU) 17 07   (WB) KENYA DIRECTOR:                FAX:254 2 26038?                   P.002
Annex 3.4
Page, 1 of 6
RIEP3BLIC OF KEENYA
NLISTRY OF FINANCE
Tclegraphic Address: ''921                                            Orrice of the ?Minister
FINANCE - NAMOST                                                          P.O. Box 3a007
Telephone: 338171                                                              NAG LOBI
Wben replying please quote                                                      XXY A
Ret. Yo. EA/rA 621323/01                                          15th November, 1996
and dae
MvIr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
1818 H Street N.W
Washington, D.C.
U.S .A
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
Kenya: Energy Sector Reform and Power Development Project
Letter of Power Sub-Sector Policy
Introduction
The energy sector plays an important role in the country's economy, in cerms of its
impact on the balance of payments, concribution to the govermnent's revenues, and share of
investment and employment.  The Goverrnent. therefore, accords a high priority to the
development of the sector in a cost-efficient and environmentally sustainable manncr. The
purpose of this lerter is to highlight the Government's sector development objectives, and the
policy and institutional reforms being pursued to achieve the objectives. These reforms are an
integral part of the design of the Energy Sector Reform and Power Development Project and
underpin che invesanenrs proposed under the Project.
The Government has undertaken several studies to provide a basis for formulation of
sector policies and strategies. A broad sector stracegy was developed and agreed with the World
Bank and che IMF and this is reflected in the Policy Framework Pacers (PFP) covering the
periods 1993-95 and 1996-98. In the PFP for the period 1996-98, energy seccor reform policies
have been articulated in paragraphs 35, :52, 53 and 54.
Policy Objectives
The sector's stracegic objectives are to improve investment and operational efficiency by:
- (i) separating commercial funccions from policy setting, regulatory and coordinaEing functions:
- (ii) implementation of power projects on the basis of improved leasc cost-investment planning;
(iii) creating more competitive market conditions in electricity generation and in rhe petroleum
sub-secror; (iv) restructuring power companies and requiring them to operate on a commercial
basis supoorted by a system of perfornance contracts and wich transparent financial
relationships; (v) adjusting the struccure of electricity prices to ultimarely reflect long run



21-NOV.' 96(THU) 17:08   (WB) KENYA DIRECTOR:                   FAX:254 2 260382                     P. 003
Annex 3.4
Page 2 of 6
t
*arrer of Power Sub-Secro' Policl                                                        2
marginal cost of supply and ensuring that petroleum product prices are set by Ehe market while
discouraging cartetizaLion; and (vi) carrytng outdcmand and supply-side efficiency improvements
in the power sub-sector and in industry.
Role of Government - Sector Restrucruring
The Government's principal role in a restructured energy sector will be t-hat of a
facilitator of development by providing a stimulus to invescment and growth through provision
of an enabling environment, policy formulation, regulation, monitoring and coordination. In this
respect, the Government will strengthen its capaciEy for regulating any market segments
characterized by limited competition and will improve the legal framework for che sector so as
.co effectively protect the interests of consumers, facilitatc private sector participation and
enhance the efficiency of operating companies.
In the power sub-sector, the Government's role will focus on;
i)    reviewing bulk and the end-user tariffs and approving adjustments in order to
meet thc financial requirements of thc power-sub-sector;
ii)    reviewing  power purchasing  arrangements to ensure that they meec the
requircments of the relevant laws of Kenya;
iii)   ensuring system reliabiliry and security;
iv)   licensing of power operacions on conditions intended to promote efficiency of the
industry and institution of concrols against non-competitive behaviour,
v)    protecting the interest of electricity consumers by ensuring that appropriate
standards for supply are adhered to;
vi)   setting up and enforcing standards in respect of safetcy;
vii)   setting uo and enforcing scandards in respect of environmental protection;
viii)  promoting the developmnen of viable and healthy competition and technology
advancement of the sector; and,
ix)    establishment of an autonomous Electricity Regulacory Board, under the Electric
Power Act, CAP 31.4, to carry out activities (i), (ii) and (v) listed above, among
othcr things, under the general policy advice of the Ministry of Energy.-
nergy Secwor Reform and Power DeOelopmenr Projecr



21-NOV.' 96(THU) 17: 08   (WB) KENYA DIRECTOR                  FAX:254 2 260582                   P. 004
Annex 3.4
Page 3 of 6
LcrTCr of PRwe:r SUb-Secror PoUer .                                                    3
Restructuring and Commercializing Power Companies
Thc existing limiced liability companies (KPLC, KPC and TRDC) will be reorganized
by end of October. 1997, to place all the generation assets under one company and all the
transmission and distribution assets in another. The generation assets owned by che multi-
purpose authorities will be transferred to the new electric powcr generation company on
historical cost basis. by end October, 1997.  Assers rransfer between the new generation
company and the transmission. and distribution company will be Rffected on the basis of
replacement costs, taking inco account the residual life spans of the assets involved.
Liabilities relating to the generation and transmission assets will be transferred betwecn
and among the oarganizations on the basis of the current outstanding debts, save for the Turkwel
project.  The liabilities for the Turkwel project will be transferred on the basis of the
replacement cosr of the electro-mechanLical components. However, the new generation company
and the Treasury will work out the project's debt service arrangemenc over a period of twenty
years. Debt service for Kiarnbere will be transferred to the new generation company when ir
becomes fully operational.
The power comoanies will be required to operate on sound commercial principles. To
improve the companies' operating and financial performance, a system of performanc_ contracts
will be institured by June 30, 1997 for the two new electric powcr companies. Strcamlining of
sraffing levels in KPLC (the only company with staff) has been initiated and the customcr/staff
racio improved from about 36: t ac the end of 1994 to 49:1 by the end of 1995. KPLC has also
made subscancial progress in contracting our non-core services: both the security and janitorial
services are now 100% contracted out; and construction of Kilifi-Malindi 33kV line which was
contracted out in August 1995 was completed in January 1996. KPLC plans to contract out
more line construction work including 66kV lines in Nairobi area. Contracting out of transport
workshops and repair workshops is also planned.
Private Sector Participation
The Government Ehas decided to intoduce competition in the generation segment of the
electricity supply markec, so as to improve efficiency and expand che scope of resourc-s
mobilization by encouraging private sector participation. In this regard, invitations for private
sector bids for developmenc and operation of two power plants (Kipevu 11 Diesel and Olkaria
IIL Geothermal) were issued in July 1996. with November 29, 1996 being the closing date for
receipt of duly completed-bids. In addition co chese two power plants, all future power projects.
except multipurpose hydro schemes, will be offered for development, on a competitive bidding
basis, by both che privare and publiv sector companies  Private companies, together with the
proposed generation parastacal will supply electricity to che proposed cransmissicn and
distribucion company under long-term power purchase agreements (PPAs).
As an interinm measure to redress the current power supply shortfalls, while projects
programmed for devclopmcen under the rolling five year least cost development plan are being
constructed, the Government has decided to have in place a 44-.5 MW oil fired plant developed
by an IPP, on a fast track basis. An IPP has already been selected through a competicive
Ener_V Sec:or Refomiw and Power Deve!opmenrt Projecr



21-NOV. '96(THU) 17:09   (WB) KENYA DIRECTOR:                  FAX:254 2 260382                   P. 005
Annex 3.4
Page 4 of 6
Le,rer of Po%wr Sub-S cror Po.licy                                                     4
bidding process to develop che plant, on the basis of build-own-operatm (BOO) arrangement.
The IPP will scll power to KPLC under a PPA.  On its part, KPLC has finalized similar
arrangemenns for an IPP to develop a 43 MW  oil fired plant to replace generation by retired
uneconomic thermal capacity at Kipevu.
In the petroleum sub-sector, the procurcmenc, marketing and distribution and pricing of
crude oil and petroleum products is already being carried our by the private sector. On Ocxober
27. 1994 the Government deregulated the petroleum  markets and removed the National Oil
Corporation of Kenya's monopoly rights to procure 30%  of the  country's crude oil
requirements, and allowed consumer prices to be market-deternined.
Least Cost Investment Planning
The Government will ensure that a rolling five-year energy sector inves;ment program,
including a least-cost power system expansion plan is updated annually and rolled over by onc
year. These documents will be submitted to IDA for comments prior to finalization and
subsequent implementation. All investments will bc ranked in tcerms of their imoact on the
environment and cnvironmental assessments will be carried out in line with the World
BanJk's/any other donor's guidelines for all planned projects. Mitigation plans will be prepared
anrd implemented for all projects with adverse environmental impacts.
Capacity Building
The Gcvernmenc will continue to build its personnel capacicy through training in
institutions of higher learning, middle level colleges and polyrechnics. and through participation
in seminars and workshops including overseas attachments in appropriate institutions to ensure
effective management and development of the energy secror.
Ener,y Pr:icing
The Government's energy pricing policies are aimed at encouraging efficient utilization
of electricity and other commercial fuels, prudent management of resourc:s dedicated to supply
and delivery of energy to consumers, ensuring the financial viability of energy enterprises and
generation of fiscal revenue.
In the power sub-sector, the government is commitred co adjusting generation tariff and
end-user cariff structure so as to ultimately reflecr long run marginal cost (LRMC) of electricity
supply to enable the sub-sector co achieve an operational profit and thus raise adequate capital
to sustain its investment programs and attract IPP invescmcnts in the gcncration segment.
As part of thc tariff adjustments process, in March, 1994 the Government increased the
average tariff level by 60%, which together with subsequent appreciation d2 the Kenya shilling
against the US dollar had raised che tariff level from about 54.5% to 67.5% of LRMC.
currently.                 71 4
Tariffs were raised to 75% of LRIMC wich effecc from October 1, 1996.  An update ot 7
the November, 1993 tariff study, envisaged to be completed by April 30, 1997, will provide the
Energy Secror Reform nsd Power Development Project



21-NOV. '96(THU) 17:09   (WB) KENYA DIRECTOR:                     FAX:254 2 260382                     P.006
Annex 3.4
Page 5 of 6
Lart'r of Por)w Sub-recror PoIicy                                                           5
basis for che Government to determine the magnitude and phasing of  Further adjustments
required to achieve LRMC, after t'aking due consideration of the cost of power from independent
power producers and the sector's overall financing requirements.  Scarting in 1994, the
Government has authorized KPLC to automatically adjust the level of ics tariffs so as co reflect
changes in the cost of petroleum fuels used in thermal generation of electricity. EFfective Ist
October, 1996, KPLC has been authorized to automatically adjust its tariffs to reflect changes
in the cost of external debts service arising from fluctuations in the exchange rates of the Kenya
Shilling.
The bulk tariff for sales of electricity by the public sector generation company will be
based on tie tariffs established through the LRMC pricing principle, as determined through the
regulatory proc-ss. In addition, the bulk tariff for sales of electricity by independent power
producers will be based on prices escablished through international tendering proc-ss.
Eaergy EtTciency
It is the Governmenc's policy to promote che efficient supply and use of energy. On the
supplv side, the policies and institutional reforrns to improve efficient provision of energy
include the reorganization of the power sub-sector, the planned introduction of private sector
participation in power generation, the contracting out of services to the private scctor, the
inrroduction of performance contracts for energy enterprises and screamlining of smTffing levels.
More specific measures to improve the efficiency of power supply include reduction of losses,
particularly in the discribution systems and installation of efficient generation facilities.
On che demand side manacement. the Government will encourage large consumers of
electricicy to even out demand, time of use and inrerruptible electricity tariffs will soon be
introduced. The Government will also promote energy audirs for commercial and industrial
consumers, develop a demand side management programme, make available information to the
public on efficient usC of energy and cost-effective technologies and encourage private sector
participacion in the delivery of energy efficiency improvemenc measures. Efficiency standards
for electric equipment will also be developed.
Renewable Energy
On new, renewable and rural energy, the Government will together with the private
secror promote the economic developmenr of new and renewable energy sources such as wind,
solar and biomass, particularly to complement energy supplies in areas not served by the grid.
The Government will regularly review its policy on import duties and taxes levied on solar and
wind- power equipment in order to ensure that these arc not higher chan those levied on
convencional electrical equipment and will also establish quality standards for phocovoltaic (PV)
and wind power equipment.
The Government attaches great importance to rural electrification and in chis respect a
rural clectrification master-plan is currently under preparation with technical assistance from che
African IDevelopment Bank (ADB) to among other things examine alternative options for the
provision of energy in che rural areas in a cost-effective manner, taking account of GoK's
Energy Scc:or Reforr antd Pov.r Develtoarnenz Projrct



21-NOV.' 96(THU)  7: 10   (WB) KENYA DIRECTOR:                FAX:254 2 260382                   P.007
Annex 3.4
Page 6 of 6
Lezlar of Power Sub.Sector PeUicy                                                     6
policies on industrial dispersion. The GoverTnmnen will also review its policies on new and
renewabie cnergy, from Lime to time with a view to promocing widespread use of new and
renewable sources of energy including wood-fuel.
Conclusion
The Government believes that the implementation of the above measures, togecher witil
the other policies spelt out in the current Policy Framework Paper, will bring abouc accelerated
economic development and promote the reduction of poverty.
Yours sincerely
MUSALL.A
Copy to:-
Hon. Noah Kataua Ngala, E.G.H., M.P.
Minister for Energy
.Ministry of Energy
Nairobi
Mr. Fares Kuindwa, E.B.S.
P.ermanent Secretary, Secretary to the Cabinet
and Head of Public Service
Office of the President
Nairobi
Energy Seclor Reform and Power Developmcntr Project



Annex 4.1
Page I of 1
KENYA
Energy Sector Reform and Power Development Project
Documents Available in the Project File
Kenya: Electric Power Sector Organization Study Phase I Report ( three Volumes); July 1993, Prepared by
London Economics in association with Kaplan & Stratton Advocates
Electric Power Sub-Sector Organization Study in Kenya; Final Draft Report ( two volumes), May 1996,
Prepared by EDF of France
Kipevu Diesel Power Plant (Phase 2) Feasibility Study, Final Report; August 1994, Prepared by Ewbank
Preece ( UK)
Electricity Tariff Study, Final Report (three Volumes), Prepared By London Economics Limited (UK),
April 1993
Legal Consulting services to review and develop an Appropriate Legal and Institutional Framework for the
Energy Sector in the Republic of Kenya, Prepared bt Oraro & Rachier Advocates (Kenya) Steptoe &
Johnson LLP (USA)
Volume 1-      Petroelum Subsector Reform
Volume II-     Corporate Restructuring
Volume lIl-    Electricity Law Reform
Kenya's Energy Sector Investment Programme 1995/96-1999/2000, document presented by the
Government for discussion at a consultative Donor's Meeting in Paris, September 1995
Petroleum Market Structure and Pricing Study, August 1993, Prepared by Arthur D. Little Inc. (USA)
Feasibility Study for a Geothermal Power Station at North East Olkaria, Final Report, December 1989 (
three volumes), Prepared by Ewbank Preece (UK)



Annex 4.2
Page I of I
KENYA
Energy Sector Reform and Power Development Project
Description of the Sector Restructuring and Reform Component
Implementation of the Sector Restructuring and Reforrn component is already in progress with financing provided by IDA
under a Project Preparation Facility and supplemented by other IDA credits. The objectives of the component are to support
deregulation of the petroleum subsector, reforms of the organization, management and financial structures of the power
subsector companies, the establishment of a legal and regulatory framework necessary to improve subsector efficiency and
the promotion of private sector investment in the sector. The table below summarizes the relationship among the reform
objectives, the studies included in this component, the costs of the studies, and the outputs.
Reform Objective                Activity               Specific Objectives        Cost                    Status
(US$)    ___________________
I. Power subsector            (i)  Power Sector        Propose institutional and                  Consultant recommendations for
reorganization and              Organization Study   organizational changes needed            separation of generation assets from
restructuring                   - Phase I           in order to maximize efficiency           transmission and distribution assets and
and effectiveness and to promote          an effective regulatory arrangement have
investment.                   332,000     been accepted by GoK.
(ii) Power Sector       Propose specific steps to be   486,000'   Draft final report has been prepared.
Organization Study   taken to implement the                   GoK to prepare action plan for
- Phase 11          separation of generation from             implementation of accepted
transmission assets into separate         recommendations. Action plan to be
companies, in particular, the             agreed with IDA prior to negotiations.
organizational management,
assets and financial restructuring
of the existing companies and
the required contractual
arrangements.
2. Promotion of private sector   (iii) Consultants services  Pre-qualification of IPPs,  600,000  Bid documents have been issued.
participation in generation                         preparation and evaluation of
Requests for Proposals (RFPs)
and assistance to the GoK
during negotiations with
qualified bidders.
3. Enhancement of the legal    Legal and Regulatory    Identify reforms necessary to  250,00      Draft final report has been prepared.
and regulatory framework   Framework Study          achieve a reorganization of the           GoK to prepare action plan for
for the sector.                                     power subsector, attract private          implementation of recommendations
sector investment and to                  Action plan to be agreed with IDA prior
improve the sector's operational          to negotiations.
_____ ____ _____ ____ ____ efficiency.
4. Deregulation of the         (i)  Petroleum Market    Propose recommendations for    267,000    Study completed. Petroleum Subsector
Petroleum Market                Structure and       reform of the procurement,                deregulated in October 1994. The main
Pricing Study       marketing and pricing practices           outstanding issue is the future of the
in order to create a more                 refinery which is protected by a tax on
competitive environment.                  imports until November 1996. Closure
of refinery would require altemative
sourcing of LPG. These issues are being
addressed in the macroeconomic
dialogue.
(ii) Petroleum Import   Assist MOE in preparing for the   27,000   Services in progress.
Deregulation        deregulated market, particularly
with respect to its monitoring
role.
(iii) Staff Training    Build capaciht for monitoring  50,000      Training completed.
subsector activities after the
deregulation of the petroleum
market.
TOTAL COST                                                   .                        2,012,000
Financed under the Parastatals Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Project.



Annex 4.3
Page l of 5
KENYA
Energy Efficiency and Demand Management Component
Background and Context
I.     The Government's overall strategy for energy efficiency, as expressed in its Letter of Sector
Policy, addresses opportunities at four levels. First, the introduction of macro-economic measures relating
to energy pricing and increased reliance on market forces, will foster an enabling environment for energy
efficiency improvements. Second, to increase the efficiency on the supply side, the power utilities will
implement a distribution system loss reduction program and install efficient generation facilities. Third.
KPLC and the Manufacturers' Association will develop electricity demand management and energy
efficiency programs. Fourth, recognizing that an appropriate institutional capacity is required to sustain
energy efficiency programs, the strategy emphasizes local capacity building and technology transfer.
2.     As a result of past energy efficiency initiatives, Kenya is probably on a better footing than many
sub-Saharan African countries. However, many initiatives have been dependent on donor and Government
financing, so their sustainability has not been granted. The history of low power tariffs has also impeded
progress. The situation today is more promising, the new tariff policy, the power sub-sector
reorganization, including greater commercial orientation and private sector participation will provide sound
incentives for increased efficiency.
Objectives and Components
3.     The objective of the energy efficiency component is to seek to develop and implement market
based strategies and programs to promote more efficient energy supply and use.
4.     The project has five components: (i) the KPLC efficiency improvement and demand management.
program; (ii) a study to investigate how the availability, affordability and attractiveness of efficient
electrical technologies could be improved through policy interventions at manufacturing, importing and
marketing levels, for instance through the introduction of efficiency standards and an appliance labeling
program; (iii) the Kenya Energy Management Program (KEMP), which is ongoing with the help of
technical assistance by ESMAP (will not be described here); (iv) an energy efficiency workshop; and (v)
program evaluation.
1. KPLC Energy Efficiency Improvement Program
IA. Supply-Side Efficiency Improvements (Distribution Loss Reduction)
5.     Although KPLC's aggregate system losses (16% of net generation) are not excessive, they are
quite high in some parts of the transmission and distribution system, and without improvements, would
increase to unacceptable levels. With the assistance of ESMAP, KPLC established an in-house capacity --
an Efficiency Improvement Unit -- which has established the level of system losses in Nairobi City and the
Coastal Area, which collectively account for 70 percent of total system load, as follows:
6.     Nairobi. As a result of a well configured 11 kV system supplied by seven 66/11 kV sub-stations,
the peak power and energy losses in Nairobi's medium voltage distribution networks that contain the
highest load concentration appear reasonable at present -- 2.6% for power and 1.8% for energy at present
loading levels. But, in the absence of system improvements, the power and energy losses would increase
to some 6.4% and 4.6% respectively over the next ten years.



Annex 4.3
Page 2 of 5
7.     Coastal Area. In the Coastal area, where KPLC rely on long 33 kV feeders to supply load
concentrations in and around the Mombasa Island, the level of peak power and energy losses in the
medium voltage distribution networks are some 6.4% for power and 4.4% for energy. In the absence of
system improvements the power and energy losses would increase to 11.2% and 8.2%. respectively, in ten
years.
8.     Based on the above findings, KPLC has developed a loss reduction program for the Nairobi and
Coastal Area systems to be implemented as part of the proposed Project:
(a)    Nairobi: (i) upgrading of II kV feeders, and installation of new feeders: (ii) replacement
of capacitors on feeders; (iii) new 66/1 I kV substation at Kiambu plus new feeders to
link Kiambu to the LV network; and (iv) reinforcements in the LV networks
(b)    Coastal Area: (i) new 33/11 kV sub-stations at three locations -- Rabai, Tiwi. and Galu;
(ii) II kV feeders to link the above sub-stations to the existing LV network; and (iii)
reinforcements in the LV networks
IB. Demand-Side Efficiency Improvements (Demand Management)
9.     The economic viability of loss reduction programs, such as the installation of capacitors to
improve power factor in the MV and LV feeders, usually can be enhanced with the introduction of
electricity demand management (EDM) measures. To that end, and in order to alleviate the effects of load
shedding, KPLC's Efficiency Improvement Unit are working towards integrating cost effective and
complementary EDM measures into their operations. The Unit is presently focusing on EDM measures that
would target industrial and commercial customers to improve power factor, and shift demand away from
the peak load periods.
10.    To enhance the level of KPLC's customer service in energy efficiency, the proposed Project
would provide technical assistance to KPLC's Efficiency Improvement Unit to: (i) build an in-house
capacity on EDM to complement that for loss reduction; (ii) apply their skills on-the-job, drawing on the
extensive information already gathered from the loss reduction work to plan complementary activities on
EDM; (iii) design EDM projects; and (iv) implement EDM projects and strategy. The proposed project will
finance consultancy services and training for this purpose. In addition, key energy efficiency personnel at
the MOE would participate in major training events, while ESMAP would finance training to other
organizations and local consultants under the KEMP program.
11.    Training and Capacity Building in EDM. KPLC proposes to build its in-house capacity for
EDM work through a "twinning" arrangement with another power utility with an established track record
in designing and implementing EDM programs. The training that KPLC staff would receive under such
arrangement would be supplemented by their participation in seminars and workshops and by visiting
research and other institutions.
12.    On-the-Job Training on EDM Planning and Load Profile Surveys. In order to develop
comprehensive EDM actions, KPLC needs to build up a disaggregate demand management database. To
this end, KPLC needs to complement its feeder level load data with additional information on demand
profiles and end-use practices within the premises of key customers. Therefore, using a similar on-the-job
training approach that was successfully applied by ESMAP to build in-house capacity for loss reduction
work, KPLC will to engage EDM experts to assist in designing and carrying out customer load surveys and
data collection activities to yield information on: (i) daily load curves; (ii) load duration curves; (iii) power
factor at peak periods; (iv) load density; (v) load factors in key markets and customer groups; (vi) market
penetration rates of electric equipment and appliances; and (vii) impact of power outages. KPLC would
carry out most of the required surveys using its own staff so as to enhance its EDM capacity. A number of



Annex 4.3
Page 3 of 5
the surveys will also be contracted out to the private sector, including local energy firms, and the ESMAP
trained KAM professionals in order to create business opportunities for increased private enterprise
delivery of energy efficiency services in line with the Government's policy.
13.    EDM Program Evaluation and Development. The next step is to develop, evaluate and rank
different EDM options according to electricity savings potential and cost-effectiveness to achieve KPLC's
system requirements. The options include but are not limited to (i) power-factor improvement, (ii) load
management; and (iii) end-use efficiency.
14.    Power-Factor Improvement. The evaluation will identify the customers where power factor
improvement would reduce demand and develop a program to install power factor correction capacitors
either at the customers premises or on KPLC's transmission and distribution system.
15.    Load Management. Primary load management techniques include tariff rates (e.g. special tariffs
for "interruptible" or "curtailable" supply) which discourage use at times of system peak; and direct control
of customers' load. The technical and economic viability of re-structuring KPLC's time-of-use tariffs and
direct load control to create incentives for customers to use electricity in a way that minimizes KPLC's
supply costs will be evaluated.
16.    End-Use Efficiency. Depending on the survey results, the investigation would focus on programs
to improve the efficiency of lighting, cooling, heating, water pumping, and electric motors. These
measures would generally be implemented and financed by the customers themselves, but to reduce
transaction costs, KPLC will design and field test a number of services that it would offer to assist key
customer groups. Such customer services include: (i) collaboration with local energy efficiency programs,
such as the KEMP, to provide diagnostic services of electricity end-use practices; (ii) advice to efficiency
improving housekeeping measures, and to introduce energy monitoring and targeting systems; (iii) design
and implementation of action plans to assist customers eliminate in-plant power losses; and (iv) preparation
of specifications for bidding documents that would be applied by customers to procure technical services
from third parties to upgrade end-use efficiency.
17.    Study on Financing Mechanisms. Some of the efficiency improvement measures would require
consumers to invest in retrofit measures or equipment. The low implementation rate of the
recommendations of the past energy audits suggest the existence of funding problems and lack of
incentives. As the cost-effectiveness of energy efficiency will improve with the increased tariff levels, the
issue of adequate financing mechanisms remains. Therefore, MOE in conjunction with KPLC, will carry
out a study to map out sustainable mechanism for third party financing of efficiency improving measures,
which may involve, for instance, leasing arrangements with industrial and commercial consumers.
18.    EDM Program Implementation. KPLC would initially implement the following EDM
programs that would primarily target the Nairobi and Mombasa areas to integrate them to the program on
distribution loss reduction.
*  Nairobi EDM Pilot Demonstration Project. This pilot project would target industrial and
commercial customers in a well defined area, for example those that are supplied from the
existing 66/11 kV sub-stations located at Industrial Area and Nairobi South. The primary aim
is to encourage the customers to improve power factor levels, shift operations away from
evening peak periods, and replace obsolete and inefficient end-use equipment.
* Mombasa EDM Pilot Demonstration Project. This pilot project would target mainly
commercial but also industrial customers in the area supplied primarily from the Kipevu sub-
station and its network of 33 kV feeders. These include hotels and other commercial loads
that are supplied from the existing LV network; and



Annex 4.3
Page 4 of 5
* Western Kenva. KPLC would study the viability of extending the coverage of EDM
measures to the Western Distribution areas, where the principal targets would include
industries that also may have significant potential to contribute energy to the grid through co-
generation.
*  EDM Promotional Activities in the Commercial Sector. In order to demonstrate the cost
effectiveness and economic benefits of energy efficiency improvements in commercial and
institutional buildings, KPLC's demonstration activities would include: (i) the retrofit of
KPLC's headquarters building, especially the banking hall in Nairobi with energy efficient
lighting and promotional exhibits; and (ii) the retrofit of at least two other buildings which
would be selected to reflect the KPLC customer mix in the Nairobi and Mombasa load
centers. KPLC would also in collaboration with professional bodies to provide advisory to
building owners, management companies and designers.
* EDM Promotional Activities for the Residential Sector. For the residential sector, KPLC's
initial thrust would be to promote "good practice" in end-use energy efficiency through the
activities of the existing KPLC Demonstration Center in Nairobi, which caters especially to
women and students. The Center would be modernized and equipped with efficient lights and
appliances, etc. It would set-up exhibits on efficient lights and other energy saving household
devices.
2. Energy Efficiency Standards and Labeling Program for Electric Appliances and Motors
19.    Objectives. This activity will support and expand on activities at the end-use level, in particular
to address the question of how the availability, affordability and attractiveness of efficient electrical
technologies could be improved through policy interventions at manufacturing, importing and marketing
levels, for instance through manufacturing incentives, efficiency standards, and labeling and information
programs. The objectives are to:
i   Analyze the potential energy savings that could be achieved through improving the
efficiency of appliances and motors;
-   Identify the technical and policy measures needed to improve the efficiency of appliances
and electric motors in Kenya;
*   Analyze the implications of implementing such improvements in terms of the production
changes needed, the effects on prices, impacts on import/export of appliances and motors,
and institutional requirements;
*   Analyze the cost effectiveness of implementing efficiency standards and a labeling program;
*   If implementation of efficiency standards and labeling program is shown to be cost-effective,
then select the most promising technologies and strategies (addressing issues such as
financing and institutional responsibilities) for further action, and develop preliminary
implementation documents, such as a draft set of appliance/motor efficiency standards and a
proposal for a labeling program.
*   Propose an effective legal/regulatory framework for implementing the proposed program.
20.    Implementation. The activity will be implemented by MOE in collaboration with the Ministry of
Trade and Industries (MOTI). A detailed project implementation plan will be produced following a Project
Planning Workshop that will gather the major stakeholders including the Kenya Bureau of standards,



Annex 4.3
Page 5 of 5
MOE, KPLC, MOTI, and organizations such as the Kenya Association of Manufacturers. The workplan
will include components to:
*    Review international experience with standards implementation;
*    Review current manufacturing and import activities, and market status; and
*    Review the national legislative and regulatory context (import tariffs, etc.);
21.      Following the completion of the above activities and the production of the draft report, an Action
Planning Workshop wi]l be held to present and review project outputs and discuss the further curse of
action with all stakeholders.
3. Energy Efficiency Workshop
22.     Once the survey data is available from the KPLC and KEMP energy surveys and audits, and the
preliminary results has been obtained from the Efficiency Standards Study, a workshop will be held to
discuss and disseminate the results and explore further options to improving efficiency. The workshop will
target major energy users in the industrial and commercial sectors.
4. Program Evaluation
23.      At the end of the third year of implementation, an independent audit and evaluation will be carried
out to investigate the programs' effectiveness, customer satisfaction and propose a further course of action.
Implementation Arrangements and Estimated Costs
24.      KPLC, MOE and KAM respectively will be responsible for the different sub-components as
detailed in the table below.
Sub-Component                                                     Responsible      Estimated Costs USS million
Agency            (inC. contingencies)
Local        Foreign
1 Efficiency Improvement and EDM Program
a. Supply Side Efficiency (loss reduction)
- Phase I                                                      KPLC               0.56         3.2
- Phase 11                                                     KPLC               0.4          2.3
b. Demand Side Efficiency
- Capacity building & training                                 KPLC               0.1          0.2
- Load & market surveys                                        KPLC               0.1          0.3
- Design & evaluation of EDM programs                          KPLC               0.1          0.3
- Implementation of EDM programs
. Nairobi Pilot                                               KPLC               0.1          0.6
Coastal Pilot                                                KPLC               0.1          0.6
. Westem Kenya analysis                                       KPLC               0.05         0.15
Commercial buildings                                        KPLC               0.05         0.2
KPLC Demonstration Center                                   KPLC               0.15         0.25
. Other                                                       KPLC and MOE       0.2          0.7
Study on financing mechanisms                                 MOE                             0.25
- Training of MOE staff                                        MOE                             0.05
- Training of local consultants                                KAM                ESMAP        ESMAP
2. Guidelines for Appliance Efficiency Standards and Labeling Study  MOE          0.05          0.35
3. Kenya Energy Management Program                             KAM                ESMAP         ESMAP
4. Energy Efficiency Workshop                                  MOE and KPLC       0.01         0.05
5. Program Audit and Evaluation                                KPLC and MOE       0.05         0.25
Estimated Total Cost (excluding ESMAP)                                            2.0          9.8



Annex 4.4
Page I of 8
KENYA
ENERGY SECTOR REFORM AND POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Description of the Power System Expansion and Rehabilitation Component
A.     Power Generation
Kipevu Diesel-Electric Plant
1.     Background. The desirability of constructing a large oil fired thermal generating plant on the
coast of Kenya has featured in electric sector planning for a number of years. However, it was not until the
1 990s that electricity supply/demand forecasts indicated a need to proceed with this new power project
within a definite timetable. Currently loss of load expectation in the Kenyan interconnected system in an
average hydrological year is such that shedding can be expected every day of the year. The design
criterion is for load shedding to be expected in no more than ten days in a dry year. Consequently the
system is now considerably less reliable than intended and in the event of a dry period occurring, or major
failure of units, as has been the case at Gitaru hydropower plant, extensive load shedding will be required
with the resulting adverse economic impact. New capacity in the range of 150 MW is therefore urgently
needed to return the power system to somewhere near its design level of reliability. Screening analysis
demonstrated that from among the potential candidate generation options considered (oil and coal fired
steam plant; gas turbines in combined and open cycle; medium and low-speed diesel engines; geothermal;
and hydro projects) the diesel options are least cost for supporting the power system demand. The
appropriate site for installing this diesel-electric power station is Mombassa given the fuel supply
requirements.
2.     The rationale for the Kipevu diesel-electric project are therefore threefold:
*   to add further installed generation capacity in response to the country's projected increase in
demand over the short-medium term;
*   to help achieve greater reliability, security and stability of power supply within the
interconnected grid; and
*   to help produce a more satisfactory balance between energy sources for electricity
generation.
3.     General Characteristics of the Power Plant. The Plant would be developed in two stages of 75
MW net each. It is planned that the first stage would be implemented by the public sector (KPC), while the
second phase would be built, owned, maintained and operated by an Independent Power Producer (IPP).
Electric power produced at this second stage would be purchased by KPLC through a Power Purchase
Agreement (PPA).
4.     The proposed power station would be located at Kipevu near the existing thermal power station.
The area is restricted and hilly. Leveling will be done for both stages of the power station simultaneously.
Site investigations, including appropriate borehole drilling, were carried out by a reputable engineering
firm, and concluded that the hilltop area next to the existing power station has competent foundation
condition for the new power plant.
5.     Feasibility studies for the Kipevu Diesel-Electric Power Scheme were carried out by a reputable
engineering firm. The feasibility-level design calls for two adjacent power stations each with 12.5 MW
medium-speed diesel-electric sets burning heavy fuel oil (No. 6 HFO). Net capacity of each station would
be 75 MW. Fuel oil would be supplied via pipeline, either directly from the Mombassa Port nearby (less
than 1.0 km) or from Mombassa Refinery (7 km). This provides dual sourcing and gives an enhanced level
of security. Nevertheless, a strategic reserve of 30 days will be kept on site. The confines of the available
site requires that a central fuel storage area be provided for both stages of the power station, with provision
for separation within this area. It is proposed therefore that two bulk tanks be provided, each 900 cubic
meters capacity, surrounded by a common bond and with individual designated unloading and forwarding



Annex 4.4
Page 2 of 8
facilities. An emergency transfer line interconnecting the two tanks would be provided to enable cross
supply of fuel and to permit tanks to be emptied for maintenance. From the bulk storage tanks, fuel would
be supplied to two large service tanks adjacent to the engine room of each stage, to await treatment. These
tanks would be sized to hold 250 cubic meters. Similar tanks would be provided post-treatment, giving
each stage 1.000 cubic meters on-site storage. Total strategic reserve would amount therefore for both
stages together to 3,800 cubic meters.
6.     Each stage of the power station would be self-contained, with separate engine rooms, auxiliaries
and step up substations. The diesel engine will be driving directly coupled synchronous generators. A
main supplying water from Mombassa runs near the project site. The quality and quantity of water is
considered adequate to meet the need of a closed-circuit non-evaporative cooling water system and
therefore it will not be necessary to provide a major water supply, nor a water treatment plant. The cooling
system would be provided with air blast radiators.
7.     Combustion air would be drawn from outside the engines powerhouse building, via intake filters
to minimize intake of airborne dust particles and insects. An exhaust gas system would be provided for
each diesel-electric set, which will include an exhaust heat-recovery boiler to provide steam or pressurized
hot water to supply all fuel heating requirements. After crossing the heat-recovery boiler, the exhaust
gases will be conducted to a common chimney stack for each stage of the power station.
8.     Fuel oil and lubricating oil sludge would be piped to a station collecting tank (one for each stage).
From there it would be treated in a dedicated treatment system. Separated concentrated sludge would be
discharged into an incinerator, while oily water would go to a separator. From this separator clean water
would pass to the drain system and oil would be returned to the sludge tank for further treatment.
9.     The fuel treatnent plant would draw fuel from the two heavy fuel pretreatment tanks. The fuel
treatment will comprise two 100% duty fuel treatment modules in parallel. Each module would include
fuel heaters and automatic fuel centrifuges.
10.    Power generated in each stage of the power station will be stepped up to 132 kV. Generators will
be connected in pairs via two-winding transformers to the gas-insulated 132 kV switchgear.
Within these parameters, specification of the exact unit size will be a matter for the tenderers, so
long as the net capacity of each state is achieved. The general plant design must aim for: (i) high operating
efficiency and low generating cost; and (ii) high reliability and long useful life.
II.    Concerning the second stage of the power station, the terms and conditions of tender document
will contain a Minimum Functional Specifications (MFS) for the plant, which will act as guide for bidders.
Subject to complying with the MFS parameters, bidders will be free to propose the plant configuration,
capacity and design which they wish, subject to space limitations.
12.    Environmental Aspects. A comprehensive environmental impact assessment has been carried
out by competent consultants. From this assessment it appears that the project would have the following
adverse environmental effects that would need to be mitigated: (i) emission of contaminants from fuel
combustion; (ii) noise from engines operation and from air-cooled radiators; (iii) oil spill accidents; and
(iv) sludge from fuel and lube oil
13.    The measures that would need to be taken to mitigate these environmentally undesirable effects,
are the following:
* contaminants emissions would have to meet World Bank guidelines; in addition, the exhaust
gases after cooling in heat-recovery boilers would be dispersed by means of high stacks
(minimum 60 m high); contaminants dispersion would be aided by the fact that the power
station would be sighted on a high bluff receiving sea breeze;



Annex 4.4
Page 3 of 8
*   engines air intakes and exhaust would be equipped with silencers adequate to meet noise
level requirements around the power station building. Control room would be sound-
proofed, and sound proof booths would have to be provided in the machine halls. Silencers
would be adapted to air-cooled radiators. In addition, the power plant would be screened by
rows of trees;
*   oil spills would be contained by appropriate bunds around tanks; and
*  sludge from fuel and lubricant would be treated and after separation burned in incinerators.
Third Unit at Gitaru Hydropower Plant
14.    The existing powerhouse at Gitaru Hydropower Plant is underground with two 72.5 MW
generating units. Provision was left in the original design for the future addition of a third unit. Penstock
with bolting flange for turbine intake and draft turbine connections including gates have already being
installed. The work to be done in order to commission the third unit consists of: (i) Turbine; (ii) Main
inlet value; (iii) Generator and exciter; (iv) Concrete for embedded; (v) Low voltage switchgear; (vi) Bus
duct to main transformer; (vii) Main generator transformer; (viii) Auxiliaries, pumps, etc.; (ix) Control
panels and relays; and (x) B2kV switchgear with breaker and isolators.
15.    January 1995, a fault develop in one of the generators forcing shutdown of the unit. The fault,
apparently due to aging of the varnish covering the stator core steel sheets at core joints, thus causing the
development of hot spots due to the eddy currents generated. The stator windings suffered consequent
damage from these hot spots, until failure of the insulation resulted. Repair work took about a year and
was completed in March 1996. The units at Gitaru are the largest in KPLC power system and the
prolonged outage of one of the units has adverse effects on the power system ability to meet peak demand
and has forced load shedding measures. Moreover, recent tests on the faulty generator have detected flaws
in the generators stator core joints. Therefore, on recommissioning, the unit could not be restored to its full
rated output of 72.5 MW without risking further faults. The other generator will also require inspection to
ascertain the state of the generator stator core. Indications at the moment are that the faulty unit would
have to be limited to a maximum load of 60 MW, the KPLC power system would have serious constraints.
The installation of the third unit, therefore, becomes an unavoidable necessity. On average, Gitaru Power
Station produces 840 GWh per year with both units in operation. With only one unit, as has been the
situation in 1995, the power station will generate about 500 GWh per year. The loss in energy production
from a fault in one unit is a minimum of 340 GWh a year while the defect is corrected.
16.    Commissioning of the third unit for Gitaru Hydropower Plant would result in the following
effective capacity of: (i) 2 x 60 MW plus I x 70 MW= 190 MW; and (ii) 763 GWh from original units plus
112 GWh from the third unit for a total of 875 GWh per year.
17.    The addition of a third unit at Gitaru would have no detrimental environmental impact.
Procurement of the unit would be by ICB. A span of 3 years is foreseen for design, tendering
manufacturing, transport and installation.
Olkaria II Geothermal Power Plant (2x32 MW)
18.    The Olkaria If power plant - with an installed capacity of 64 MW in two units of 32 MW - will be
located at the northeast part of the Olkaria geothermal field. Steam will be collected from the steamfield -
already developed with 29 wells (out of which 20 are capable of providing steam for 78 MW - an average
of 3.4 MW/well). Reservoir engineering studies indicate that the geothermal field can support the electric
power generation of 64 MW during the life of plant i.e., 30 years, with pressure and temperature within
the required values for power generation and without detrimental impact upon the production of the
existing Olkaria I power plant. The non-productive wells will be utilized for the reinjection of the residual
waters. Steam separation will be carried-out at a number of sites around the geothermal field and steam
transmitted through the gathering system to the steam turbines at the power plant. The non-condensable
gases will be dispersed through the cooling towers.



Annex 4.4
Page 4 of 8
19.    The plant will be of a modified modular type. In a modular geothermal power plant, the upward
exhaust turbine, gets to the site tested and assembled in a module, the generator is modularized separatelv
with the rotor assembled in the stator, and the direct contact condenser mounted outdoors, everything
installed on a concrete floor using a low level arrangement. The idea is to avoid as much as possible the
excavations and civil works required by the conventional arrangement. KPC and its consultants, as a
transition from the conventional design to the modular concept, accepted most of the modularization
except in two aspects: (i) all equipment, except the condenser is placed indoors in several buildings
carefully designed to blend with the environment of the Hell's Gate National Park, and (ii) the commonly
used direct contact condenser was changed to a condenser with a barometric leg requiring a seal pit.
20.    The designs of the civil works specify a power house superstructure with reinforced concrete
columns and concrete beams for a traveling crane. Deep piled foundations for all major structures are
required and thus specified. In addition, the project civil works include the provision of 65 staff houses,
comprising 36 junior staff and 29 senior staff.
21.     The steam transmission or gathering system designs were based on the prediction of the 20 wells
selected for production. The current design proposes the use of separators with integral water drums. The
separators have been standardized for three steam flow capacities 25, 50, and 100 tones/hour. The design
specifies three separator stations of 25 t/h, seven of 50 t/h, and three of 100 t/h. Using these dispersed
number of separator stations minimizes the amount of two phase flow and corresponding losses. Motorized
wellhead flow control valves will be installed. Discharge silencers will be provided at each separation
station.
22.    The design of the reinjection sy'stem comtemplates only cold reinjection of the waters from the
separator stations. The residual waters will be conveyed by steel gravity pipes to two main conditioning
and cooling ponds. From these ponds the fluids flow to the main overflow pond and a reinjection sump
from which they will be pumped to the reinjection wells. The reinjection system will be refined to included
a hot reinjection system - which will become the primary reinjection system. In the hot reinjection system,
the hot waters from the separators will be conveyed directly by steel pipes to the reinjection wells (wells
R2 and R3 are already available), without passing through the silencers and the cooling ponds. With the
hot reinjection system, the well head pressures are improved thereby prolonging the life time of the system.
A system with both hot and cold reinjection improves the management of the reservoir and provides
greater flexibility of field operations.
23.    The designs of the electro-mechanical works include: (a) a single flashed steam condensing
turbine cycle; (b) two 32 MW single shaft, single flow turbines, mounted at ground level with the
condenser located adjacently; (c) a barometricalily drained condenser into a seal pit, where vertical shaft
pumps will pump the condensate water to the cooling towers; the condenser will incorporate an integral gas
cooler; (c) a steam ejector or gas extraction system which will disperse the non-condensable gases through
the cooling tower plume; (d) mechanical induced draught cooling towers aligned parallel to the prevailing
wind direction will be provided as well as (e) two electric generators with an output capacity of 32 MW at
a power factor of 0.8, that will generate electricity at II KV.
24.    The power plant will be connected to the national grid at 220 KV through a 220 KV substation
located adjacent to the plant. A double circuit 220 KV line will feed power to a new substation in Nairobi
(Nairobi North) and the existing Dandora 220/132 KV substation that will be extended with additional
bays. A 132 KV line will interconnect the existing Olkaria I plant through a 220/132 KV, 80 MVA
autotransformer with the substation at Olkaria I. Both 132 and 220 KV lines will be strung with Canary
ACSR conductors with one conductor per phase giving a rating of 282 MVA per phase at 220 KV. Steel
lettice towers will be used with vertical configuration for the double circuit 220 KV lines and with
triangular configuration for the single circuit 132 KV lines. The substations will be constructed as double
busbar with one-and-a-third circuit-breaker configuration. Circuit Breakers will be of the SF6 or minimum
oil type.



Annex 4.4
Page 5 of 8
Olkaria III Geothermal Power Plant
25.    The Olkaria III Geothermal Power Plant, to be implemented in the Olkaria Southwest sector of the
Olkaria Geothermal Field (an area of approximately 7 square kilometers), is expected to be similar to the
Olkaria 11 Geothermal Project described above'. As indicated before there are 4 productive wells and two
additional wells (wells OW-308 and OW-102) being drilled by KPC. The electrical connection to the
national grid of Olkaria III will be a simple line interconnection between the Olkaria Ill step-up substation
to the 132 KV side of the Olkaria 11 power substation.
26.    This project is being offered to independent power producers (IPP's) for development. The project
scope that would be carried out by the successful IPP include: drilling and testing of the production field
(includes reservoir engineering studies); design and construction of the power plant and the design of the
electrical interconnection to the Olkaria II substation; and finally the operation of both the well field and
the power plant to comply with the terms of a purchase power agreement that would be entered between
the IPP and KPLC.
Support for Olkaria I Geothermal Power Plant
27.    The East production field, as indicated before, supports an installed capacity of 45 MW (Olkaria
1). As is normal in all geothermal fields there is a decline of pressure and steam rate as a consequence of
exploitation of the resource; the rate of such decline depends on the specific characteristic of the field
being exploited. In the case of the Olkaria Field, the experienced decline is about 4% per year. The
production of Olkaria I, as a consequence of the indicated phenomena, decreased to 29 MW some few
years ago. Now with the connection of several make-up wells, the power output of the power station has
been restored to full capacity.
28.    The proposed "Support for Olkaria I Geothermal Power Plant Project" consists of: (a) the
connection of two additional wells (already drilled), plus (b) the drilling of four new wells, to be later
connected by KPC, using its own resources, to the gathering system of Olkaria 1, with an independent
contractor.
Environmental Aspects
29.     The Environmental Assessment and related environmental analysis following the Bank policies
and procedures regarding EA's was carried-out by a specialized consulting firm in 1992 to provide
information on the following matters: (a) the existing environmental baseline conditions; (b) the potential
Environmental impacts, both direct and indirect; (c) the identification of preventing, mitigating and
compensating measures; (d) environmental management and training; and (e) monitoring.
30.    The environmental impacts of using geothermal energy for power generation are generally related
to impacts on: (a) air quality; (b) water pollution; (c) land disturbance; (d) aesthetics or visual impacts; (e)
noise; and (f) socio-economic aspects. The main findings of the EIA study on these aspects are summarized
as follows:
31.    Air Quality. The gaseous elements carried out by the geothermal steam are discharged to the air,
depending on the characteristics of the particular resource, problems may arise. In the case of the Olkaria
NE resource the non-condensable gases consist mainly of carbon dioxide (up to 96% of volume) and small
amounts of hydrogen sulfide (up to 5%), plus very small amounts of hydrogen, methane, and nitrogen. In
In the area assigned to Olkaria III, the field still has to be explored with additional geoscientific work
and exploratory/production drilling. The additional wells will have to be strategically located in the
field in accordance to the conceptual geothermal model. After drilling a sufficient number of wells, a
detailed reservoir engineering analysis will have to be executed to determine the generating capacity
that the reservoir in that area can support.



Annex 4.4
Page 6 of 8
the Olkaria 11 power plant, these gases will be dispersed through the cooling tower plume. Modeling
calculations indicate that the dispersion obtained is good and the concentrations will be much less than
those registered with the existing Olkaria I power station.
32.    The modeling calculations also indicated that concentrations of H1S in most settlements will reach
the same levels of the current situation, except in the existing X-2 camp in which the threshold for odor
detection will be increased by 40%. For this reason it was recommended that the X-2 camp be relocated
outside the Hell's Gate National Park. This recommendation has been accepted and the cost of the
relocation has been included in the cost of the project. Moreover, it is important to note, that ground level
concentrations were found below those levels that could adversely affect the health of workers and local
population. Another minor recommendation on air quality relates to the need for continual monitoring of
the local flower growing areas.
,3.     Water Pollution. The main problem that could be derived from geothermal power stations is
related to the handling of the geothermal residual fluids. High temperature reservoirs, greater than 2300 C -
the case of Olkaria - produce waste water containing an extensive menu of dissolved minerals. The
elements of most concern are fluoride, arsenic, and lead. Although by world standards the Olkaria
geothermal brines are not particularly toxic, it does exceed health-based water quality goals and needs to be
disposed of in a safe manner. The current method of disposing of the geothermal brines into gullies and
natural drainage lines, currently practiced in the existing Olkaria I station are inappropriate since serious
erosion has been caused in some areas.
34.    In the Olkaria 11 geothermal project, as explained before, all residual waters will be reinjected into
the geothermal reservoir, using several non-productive or specially drilled reinjection wells. Reinjection
not only is an environmental sound way of disposing of the waste water but also has a positive impact on
the maintenance of reservoir pressure and steam rates over a longer period of time.
35.     Since the whole geothermal operation depends from abstraction of fresh water from neighboring
Naivasha lake, and although the amount taken by KPC is only around 3% of total abstraction, it was
however recommended that KPC monitors the lake level variation (long term).
36.    Land Disturbance. As indicated before, the geothermal development is within the Hell's Gate
National Park which present a host of animal life. In order to minimize the disturbance of the habitat there
will not be a perimeter fence around the whole complex. Only individual well heads will be fenced, and the
power house and substation will have their own perimeter fences.
37.    Where drilling operations have been completed the larger area required to accommodate the
equipment will be restored to its original state.
38.    No impacts have been experienced with the current operations of Olkaria I on the local flora. The
situation with Olkaria 11 is further improved since all waste waters will be piped instead of ditched. This
will prevent new vegetation to occur in the neighboring areas.
39.    Aesthetics or Visual Impacts. The choice of the Site A versus an alternative Site B, for the power
station was taken despite its greater visual impact. This impact will be mitigated by the construction of
embankments around the station, the planting of trees and appropriate architectural designs of the buildings
that make up the power complex.
40.    Noise. Noise measurements indicate that present drilling operations have a very low noise level in
the range of 24 to 34 DB(A). The power station operation, test drilling, and well head operations will
generate noise levels above this type of background noise detectable specially at night. The only major
impact on any residential area is in the existing X-2 camp where noise levels will be increased to about 43-
50 dB(A), during the well testing phase, but as mentioned before, the camp will be relocated. There will
also be a noise impact during the construction phase of the power station but it will be a temporary
problem.



Annex 4.4
Page 7 of 8
41.    Socio-EconomicAspects. The Environmental Assessment concluded that the project would have
a significant impact on the socio economic of the surroundings. It was considered necessary that KPC
provides all necessary accommodation and infrastructure because the local towns would not be able to
accommodate the workforce during construction and later during the operation of the station.
42.    The long term impact on tourism was not considered a major problem. Indeed many tourist
considered such a development and attraction rather than a detraction.
43.    The recommendations of the Environmental Impact Assessment were incorporated in the
..Agreement on Geothermal Development in Hell's Gate and Longonot National Parks" entered between
the Kenya Wildlife Service and The Kenya Power Company LTD on September 20, 1994. All activities are
now executed under the terms of the Agreement. However, still pending is the relocation of the existing
camp X-2 outside the boundaries of the park.2 The cost of this relocation are included to be financed
within the Energy Sector Investment Project. The architectural and civil engineering designs for the
Olkaria 1I residences have been adopted for the new X-2 camp.
Implementation of the Geothermal Components
44.    Organization. The geothermal components will be implemented by KPC (generation); the
transmission and substations financed with Olkaria II will be implemented under the supervision of KPLC
(transmission and distribution). For Olkaria [I a project management team will established under the
Geothermal Development Coordinator, who reports to the Chief Project Development Manager. The
project management team will use the services of the existing units of the Office of the Geothermal
Coordinator, namely, the Procurement Unit and the Project Procurement, Monitoring and Control Unit.
Through the Office of the Chief Project Development Manager, the project management team obtains the
services of the Finance Department for matters relating to disbursement and payments to contractors and
consultants
45.    For the implementation of the Olkaria 11 project, a Consultant Firm will be contracted. This firm
selected among a short list firms, previously approved by IDA, will assist KPC during the bidding process
as well as for supervision of construction which includes factory inspection, as-built designs and the testing
and commissioning of the power plant. The Operation Division of KPC will assigned three engineers to
work with the consulting firm in field supervision of construction and assembly of power plant equipment
46.    The Implementation Schedule of Olkaria 1I shows that the project requires 39 months or 3 114
years of execution after the eligibility of the loan and/or the tendering process are initiated. The critical
path of execution is conformed principally by the contracting and manufacturing of the electromechanical
equipment, interrelated with the civil works. Because of this fact, project management and engineering is
critical in assuring that the contractors for the civil works contract and the electromechanical equipment
contractor do not interfere with the schedule of the other.
47.    The Implementation Schedule of Olkaria 111, if negotiation with the private sector are successful,
considers that it will be executed in parallel and during the same period of time as Olkaria 11.
48.    The relocation of the X-2 camp will required three years and half. One year for contracting and
engineer/Architect firm to prepare the studies and designs, and the remaining two and half in the
contracting and construction of the works.
B.     Distribution Systems Reinforcement
2   Another important requirement is the reinjection of the residual waters from both the field and the
cooling system. This however will be implemented during the construction of the power plant and the
gathering system.



Annex 4.4
Page 8 of 8
49.    KPLC intends to carry out a program to reinforce primary distribution (subtransmission) in
Nairobi and in the Coastal Area, particularly around Mombassa. The program in Nairobi would essentially
complete the 66 kV ring around the city and expand the 66/11 kV substation capacity feeding into the II
kV feeders network.
50.    Nairobi. The Nairobi System receives power at 132 kV and 220 kV from Juja Road, Ruaraka and
Embakasi substations all located on the outskirts of the city. Transfornation to the primary distribution
voltage of 66 kV is done presently at these three substation. Fifteen 66/11 kV primary distribution
substations are located in and around Nairobi.
51.    The method used to forecast demand was developed by KPLC consultants and used in the
National Power Development Plan. This method relates energy sales for various categories of consumers
to the related sectorial GDPs, historical sales and projected tariff increases. By imputing the Nairobi area
sales figures and the national economic data up to 1994, and the projected GDP growth rates for future
years, the area total sales and peak demand were forecasted. From peak demands forecast, the annual
growth rate for the total area load is obtained. The calculated growth rate is then applied to all the
individual substation loads with appropriate adjustments.
52.    Reinforcement required for each of the existing substations was determined on the basis of having
a firm transformer capacity available at each substation, i.e. transformer capacity sufficient minus one
transformer to accommodate the expected load. Location and capacity of new substations was also
determined, as well as reinforcement or new 66 kV lines. A number of arrangements for the 66 kV grid
were then compared on the basis of their benefit/cost ratio. The increase in grid capacity is costed at the
Long Run Marginal Cost (LRMC) attributable to HV and MV reinforcements. The LRMC in this case has
been calculated by KPLC's consultants at USSO.O18 per kWh.
53.    Within the selected option for reinforcement of the Nairobi Grid, the program for the period
1996/97-2000/01 consist of the following works:
*   Limuru 66/11 kV Substation, install 2 x 15 MVA transformers;
*   Kikuyu 66/11 kV Substation; install second 10 MVA transformer;
*   Parkland 66/11 kV Substation; install 2 x 45 transformers;
*   Juja-Parkland 66/kV line; reconductor of 2x6.5 km;
*   Embakasi - Nairobi West 66 kV line; reconductor of 2x3 km;
*   Juja - Jeevanjee/Bahati 66/kV line, construct 1.0 km of double circuit line;
-   Parklands-Catedral 66 kV cable, install 2.5 km of cable;
*   Nairobi West - Karen - Kileleshwa 66 kV line, construct 5.5 km of line;
*   Bahati 66/11 kV Substation; establish new substation with 2x23 MVA transformers; and
*   Kileshwa 66/11 kV Substation; establish new substations with 2x23 MVA transformers.
54.    Coastal Area. The study for the reinforcement of the 33 kV and 132 kV primary distribution grid
in the Coastal Area, was carried out by KPLC using the same approach as for Nairobi. The reinforcement
program thus established for the period 1996/97-2000/01 comprises the following works:
*   Nyali 33/11 kV Substation, install 23 MVA transformer;
*   Gede 33/11 kV Substation, install second 7.5 MVA transformer;
*   Miritini 33/11 kV Substation, install second 7.5 MVA transformer;
*   KPR 33/11 kV Substation; install second 7.5 MVA transformer;
*   Kipevu 132/33/11 kV Substation; install 23 MVA transformer;
*   Diani 33/11 kV Substation; install 23 MVA transformer;
*   Rabai-Diani 132 kV line; construct 45 km and install 45 MVA Substation;
*   Likoni 33/11 kV Substation; install 2.5 MVA transformer;
*   Kipevu 132/33/11 kV Substation; install second 23 MVA transformer; and
*  Shanzu 33/11 kV Substation; install 23 MVA transformer.
55.    Equipment already in stock, mainly transformers, represents about US$12 million. Some shifting
of transformers between substations would also be done.



Annex 4.5
Page 1 of3
KENYA
Description of the Resource Assessment Component
I.     The 1992 updated National Power Development Plan prepared by Acres International recommends the
addition of about 493 MW of geothermal power capacity up to the year 2011'. The corresponding least-cost
Development Plan requires that two units of 32 MW (units # 6 & 7) come in line by the year 2001, and another two
units (units # 8 & 9). of the same capacity, by year 20032. To achieve these ambitious long and short term
objectives, requires a continuous program of surface investigations, drilling and well field development, along with
the design, financing, tendering and construction of power plants. The Geothermal Resource Assessment Program
included in the "Energy Sector Investment Project" can be subdivided in two sub-components, as follows: (a) Field
Development and Feasibility/Detailed Design for Olkaria IV or Olkaria III & IV, and (b) Advanced Pre-feasibility
Studies at Olkaria Domes and Suswa, and Pre-feasibility Studies at Longonot and a New Area. The descriptions of
these components follow:
A.     Field Development and Feasibility/Detail Designs for Olkaria IV or Olkaria III & IV
2.     The Field Development Activities proposed, within the Geothermal Resource Assessment Program, were
established to comply with the stated objectives of the National Power Development Plan and the "normal
geothermal development criteria " followed by the geothermal industry in other developing countries.3
3.     The proposed Base Field Development Program considers the drilling of 26 wells. This does not comply
strictly with the described "normal development criteria", since under normal circumstances only 11 wells would
have been required to prove the feasibility of the Olkaria IV geothermal project. The departure from the normal
practice is justified with the following considerations: (a) the need to develop the field of the next geothermal power
plant (Olkaria IV) to ensure its implementation by year 2003; and, more importantly, (b) the need to establish an
Alternative Program - with the same cost as the Base Program - as a back-up, in case that negotiations with the
private sector for Olkaria III are not successful; in this instance, the Govemment of Kenya will be confronted with
the need to prove feasibility for the two projects to secure their financing and implementation.
4.     With the proposed Altemative Program, 11 wells will be drilled in each of the two areas assigned for the
Olkaria Ill and IV geothermal projects - a total of 22 wells - plus the preparation of the feasibility level studies and
designs of the corresponding power plants. The Alternative Program thus established follows strictly the described
"normal geothermal development criteria" followed by other geothermal developing countries.
B.      Advanced Pre-Feasibility Studies at Olkaria Domes and Suswa, and Pre-Feasibility Studies at
Longonot and a New Area
I The probable generating capacity that can be supported by the geothermal resources of the country still has to be
demonstrated.
2 Due to the delays incurred in funding the current Program it is doubtful that these additional units can be
commissioned by the indicated years.
3 Following common practice or "Normal Process" ,the geothermal fields are developed to a level of 30% of the
steam required for full production of a given generating capacity, and, utilizing the geoscientific data of the
drilling campaign, the surface geoscientific studies are upgraded, thus obtaining an improved geothermal
conceptual model and a detail synthesis map of the geoscientific anomalies. The studies related to the
geothermal field, complemented with reservoir engineering studies and power plant and gathering systems
feasibility level designs - including cost estimates - constitute a feasibility report adequate for seeking the
financing for the implementation of the project. The detail designs (tender level designs) are prepared during
the year in which the financing is sought and negotiated.



Annex 4.5
Page 2 of 3
5.      Surface exploration will be concluded in Olkaria Domes and Suswa and in the areas of Longonot and in
some new area in the north (probably Menengai) with KPC own resources. A slim-hole drilling Program will be
carried out in Olkaria Domes and Suswa. It includes the drilling, in each of the indicated areas of six temperature
gradient holes (500 meters depth), and 3 deep (2,500 meters) slim holes. These drilling activities will be done with a
drilling contractor.
6.      To support KPC scientific geothermal activities, it was agreed to include as part of this component, the
financing of an Advisory Board integrated by six recognized international geothermal experts. The respective
specialization of the six experts will be as follows: (i ) geothermal exploration in the discipline of geology
volcanology: (ii) geothermal exploration in the discipline of geochemistry and geophysics, (iii) geothermal field
development. which includes drilling engineering, well test and reservoir engineering; (iv) geothermal plant design
and installation, which includes mechanical, chemical, electrical and construction engineering; (v) management and
operations of geothermal projects, which includes project planning, production engineering, financing and financial
control, and (vi ) environmental science, which includes hydrology, meteorology, biology and sustainable
development
7.      To support KPC drilling operations, the project would include the financing of the purchase of equipment
(vehicles, tractors, scientific instruments, drilling equipment spare parts, excavation equipment, well testing
equipment). drilling services and repairs, training and the preparation of feasibility and other geothermal studies,
and the contracting of drilling services.
8.      KPC with its own resources will purchase local materials and services as spares, environmental materials
(trees, plants. etc.), water supply system maintenance (spare and services), water pipeline for drilling operations,
and land acquisitions.
Implementation
9.      Organization. The Advance Pre-feasibility level studies, and Field Development Program for additional
units in the Olkaria Geothermal Field, included in the Resource Geothermal Assessment Program, will be carried
out by the Geothermal Development Manager's Office at Olkaria. This Office has under its supervision the Team of
Geoscientists and the Drilling Crew Operations, who will supervise the slim drilling operations that will be
contracted with a private drilling company. The Geothermal Development Manager reports to the Geothermal
Development Coordinator. As support for the indicated studies, an Advisory Board integrated by six recognized
geothermal experts in the different disciplines that enter into the studies of a Geothermal Project, will assist KPC in
all areas of the Geothermal Program of the Project, but especially in the Resource Assessment and Field
Development Areas. The Advisory Board will review the studies and reports prepared by KPC Geoscientists. The
recommendations of the Advisory Board agreed during the Advisory Board meetings will be mandatory
10.    A geothermal consultant firm or firms, following IDA's procedures, will be contracted for carrying out the
feasibility level studies that will be completed, after a pre-approved number of commercial diameter wells have
been drilled4. The supervision of feasibility level studies fall under the leadership of the Office of the Corporate
Planning Manager. This Office will have the support on geothermal matters of the Offices of the Coordinator of
Geothermal Development and the Staff of Scientists of the Geothermal Development Manager, and of the Advisory
Board of international experts. All described arrangements are considered satisfactory for the implementation of the
geothermal components of the Energy Sector Investment Project.
I1.    Implementation Schedules. In accordance to the Implementation Schedules the Geothermal Program
requires four year years for its execution and four and half year for loan disbursements, after the loans are declare
effective. The most important aspects of the Implementation Schedules are summarized as follows:
4These wells will be drilled by KPC 's drilling crew, utilizing an existing drilling rig which will be overhauled with
resources of the program.



Annex 4.5
Page 3 of 3
12.    The Implementation for "Support of Olkaria I" and the "Geothermal Resource Assessment" can be
grouped as a single program of procurement of services, materials and equipment/instruments. The procurement
activities of this group have been divided in two round of activities, the first round covers the needs of
materials/equipment and services for approximately II wells for 2 years. The second round for the remaining two
years. Under this group the development drilling for Olkaria IV or III and IV and the feasibility studies of these
projects will be concluded in the indicated four years: the Pre-feasibility level studies of the other geothermal areas
are also concluded during the fourth year of activities.



Annex 4.6
Page I of 2
ENERGY SECTOR REFORM AND POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RURAL & HOUSEHOLD ENERGY DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
Introduction
Woodfuel and agricultural residues are estimated to account for about 75 percent of the total primary
energy use. According to the most recent bousehold energy use survey, which was carried out in 1980. about
95 percent of the domestic sector's energy demand was met bv firewood, charcoal and residues. During the
1980's a number of bilaterally funded household energy activities have been implemented, including the
development of efficient cooking stoves, agroforestry, and biogas and wind energy development. Currently,
however, no reliable data exists of the woodfuel demand and supply situation, or of the impact of the activities
in the sub-sector. The Government, therefore, has decided to develop a Rural and Household Energy Strategy
to accelerate the access to sustainable and affordable energy by lower income rural and urban households.
Objective
The objective of this activity is to develop a Rural and Household Energy Strategy, including a
priority investment and technical assistance program to efficiently address the energy related problems of
medium and low income households.
Activity Description
Tbe project comprises the following three sb- o . (i) Housebold Energy Use Survey; (ii)
Energy Supply and Marketing Study; and (iii) Policy, Institutional and Pricing Study.
Household Fnergy Use Survey
Objective. TMe objective of the Household Energ Use Survey is to obtain data of energy use in
households. The survey will target medium and low imcome households in rural and urban areas.
Specifically, the survey will estabih te types of energy used (firewood, charcoal, agricultural residues,
kerosene, LPG, electicity, solar, etc.), quandties used, type of end-use by fuel, sasonal variatios in fuel
use and fuel availability, equmet used, houehold's ener  expenditure, whether fuel is purchased or
collected free of charge, where uel is purcsed ad collected, supply constains and other problems
encountered by the households relaed to tei enerV use (health, envirounme). The uv  will also seek to
obtain information of households enery cosrvation awazeu, use of energU efficiet equipment, and
reasons for not usig energy effint equipmt. In addition, the survey will obtain informaton of household
attitudes toward fuel swihing and how the hoseolds perceive the availability of alternative fuels and their
possibilities to switch to alternative fuels.
Saple and Survey Mehod. About 100 bouseholds will be interviewed in 10-15 districts and 3-5
urban centers in order to identify differences between urban and rural households and between different
ecological areas.
Energ F S=p, and Makting Sr
Objecnve. The objective of the Energy Supply and Marketing Survey is to establish the seasonal
availability of fuelwood and modern fuels in the areas of the household surveys, the origin of firewood and
charcoal supplies, the fuel supply chai, nd prices. The survey also aims to establish changes in fuel



Annex 4.6
Page 2 of 2
consumption and availability over the past years. The study will build on the existing data, for instance the
Kenya Forestry Master Plan.
Survex Method. Interviews with fuelwood vendors, petroleum products distributors, forestry
officials, NGOs, and others. The interviews will be conducted in parallel with the Household Energy Use
Survey. A sample of the areas will be selected for a second survey to caprure seasonal availabiliny of fuel
more accurately.
Policy. Istitutignal and Pricing Stidy
Objective. The objecti-ve of the Policy, Institutional and Pricing Study is to: (i) identify and evaluate
the policies that influence the household energy sub-sector today; (ii) identify barriers to energy conservation
and fuel switching; (iii) evaluate the impact of the policy reforms in the petroleum and power sub-sectors on
the household energy sub-sector; (iv) how can markets be tapped in such a way to encourage a shift from
non-sustainable, mostly land clearance operations to sustainable tree growing or forest/woodland management
initiatives; (v) propose changes in the policy, and pricing frameworks to promote sustainable and affordable
energy supplies to medium and low income households (including energy conservation and fuel substitution),
and (vi) assess the capacity of the various institutions (GOK, NGOs, private sector) to address household
energy issues effectively and propose improvements as required. The study will also evaluate the impact of
the past activities in the household energy sub-sector (both supply and demand side).
The study will result in the development of a strategy for implementing the proposed policy reforms,
and in outlining investment and technical assistance programs.
Implementation Armngements
The Ministry of Energy will have the implemenation responsibility. The samplng, interviews,
coding of responses, quality control of responses, computerization of responses, and production of results will
be carried out by consultantts and the Central Bure;..i of Stistics. An international household energy
expert(s) will be engaged to asist MOE and CBS m project design, questonnaire design, sampling;
enumerator training; repordng; and to cary out the Policy, Instiuonal &ad Pricing Study.
Staffing
Intenmational Experts (household sury specalist ad househol enery specialit)
National Experts
CBS
MOE



Anncx 4.7
Page I of I
PROJECTr COMPONENTS B)' FINANCIERS
(UJSSmillion)
Kenya
Energy Sector Invfetment Project
Conponens by Finuncimra
(USS 000)                                    GOK                              IDA                   OECF               Pri-te Equity      Comn.er.a.I Debt         EIB                KIW                    Toal                         Local (Excl   Dules &
Amwnt       %          Anout        %         Ameou.t      %         Amount    %          Amount       %       Amount    %       Amontm     %        Amoumt                    For E-ch       ianes)      tlses
A Sector Restructuring Reform
Sector Reorgtpmattion                                                    3,2S3 10       100            -                                           -                                                    3283 10        0 5      3,283 10
Dercgulation of Petroleum Product -s                                        343 2       100            -                              .            .       .                                                                          6          50 6
SubtotulSectorRestrucurmgReform                         -          -     3,63130        100                                                                                                             363-  -  -  -  -  -   -   u   303  05  3.5S070  506
B Insatnut.onal Support                          18,48610       751      6,127 10      24 9            .         .                                          -           .                              24613 20         3 5    22143 50      2.469 70
C Efficiency Improvements
Dem5A Side Improvememt                                  0          -     5,369 80       100            -         -           -        -            -         .                                           5369 0        0 8      5,28400          85 a
LineLotReduction                                     1425        22      6,30940       978             -         -                                 .                                    .        ,     6,451 90        09       5,49200         9599
Subtotal Efficiency Improvement                      142 5       1 2    11,679 20      988                                                                                                             11,821 70        1 7    10,776 00      1.045 70
D Power Epansmon and Rehatiubtuon
Pocer Generation                                 93,99360       161     S2,35150       142    82,0740        296   65,62540       113    196.87630    340   36.620 20   63   20,85250         31    S79,12690        827   472.68780    106.43900
Upgrading of Distributon Systens                 29,943 40       100                 -          -                -                    -                -        -                       -        -    29,948 40        4 3    14,974 20     14,974 20
Subtotal Pomec E.pamonand Rehtoat,on            123.94210       194    S2,35150        135    82,807 40       285   65,62540       108    196,87630    323   36,62020   60   20.85250          34   609,07530           87   487.662 00    121.41320
E  eotlhermm1 Resource Dcelopment                17,523 80      35 6    19,709 20       40                        -                  -            -            12,053 60  24 5          -        -    49.2S6 60        70    44,456 20       4.85040
F Future Project Preparation                            -          -     1,503 10       100                                 1-        -          -                   -                           -       503 10        0 2       1 503 1            -
Total                                           16borsmeot  It0,094.50  21.5   125,001.40  17.9    32,t07.40  25.5  65,625.40       9.4   196,.76.30     9.4  48,673.80    7.0  20,852.50      3.0   69,931,20         IO0   570,121.50    129,809.70
0.
41,sJ



Annex 4.8
Page 1 of 1
PROJECT COMPONENTS AND EXPENDITURES BY YEAR
(US$ million)
Kenya
Energy Sector Reform and Development Project
Totals Including
Contingencies
1997     1998      1999     2000    2001    2002    2003       Total
A. Sector Restructuring Reform
Sector                                        1,500.5    891.2    891.4        -        -       -        -   3,283.1
Reorganization
Deregulation of Petroleum Markets              348.2         -        -                                        348.2
Subtotal Sector Restructuring Reform          1,848.7    891.2    891.4                                  -   3,631.3
B. Institutional Support                     12,513.5   5,354.8   1,349.8  1,268.4  3,511.4   615.3      -  24,613.2
C. Efficiency Improvements
Demand Side Improvements                       451.3   1,256.9   1,692.2  1,969.4       -       -        -   5,369.8
Line Loss Reduction                             12.7   3,910.8    905.3   808.8   814.3         -        -   6,451.9
Subtotal Efficiency Improvements               463.9   5,167.7   2,597.5  2,778.3   814.3       -        -  11,821.7
D. Power Expansion and Rehabilitation
Power Generation                            123,517.7 274,009.9 155,174.3 26,425.0      -       -        - 579,126.9
Upgrading of Distribution Systems            11,576.4   6,397.4   2,231.8  4,570.8  5,172.0     -        -  29,948.4
Subtotal Power Expansion and Rehabilitation  135,094.0 280,407.3 157,406.1 30,995.8  5,172.0    -        - 609,075.3
E. Geothermal Resource Development           10,551.6  14,648.2  15,475.7  8,611.2     -        -        -  49,286.6
F. Future Project Prepration                       -        -         -        -   484.2   495.8   523.1   1,503.1
Total PROJECTCOSTS                          160,471.8 306,469.2 177,720.5 43,653.6  9,981.9  1,111.1   523.1 699,931.2
Fh0.



Annex 5.1
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                                                      Page 1 of 9
Konya Povew Company Umit d_.
Projected Prndit and Los Statnent_
Actual           Actual                                      Projected-
Fiscal Year Ending June 30           1*n5            1996           1107           1998              100                200                2001               2002
In Ksh 000 Unless otherwise statd
Reo"nue                                                                                         I 
Bulk sales to KPLC                                       1,055,673      1,271,322      2,092,200      1,951,983          1,959,406          3,198,953          5,216,974         5,507,031
Development Surcharge                                    2,633,023      2,676,114       1,166,531     2,145,582          1,585,489           584.444            171,830
3,688,696     3,947,436      3,258,731      4,097,565          3,544,895          3,783.397          5,388,804          5,507,031
Opeatng Costb
Generation                                                 132,453       184,000         141,971       153,971            259,228           1,300,879          2,147,083         2,044,794
Purchases-imports                                          205,370       170,609         381,920       400,400            429,542            440,966            452,390            464,576
Transmission and Distribution                                8,091         9,924           8,899         9,149              9,405              9,668              9,939             10,217
Admin salaries and wages                                    16,082        19,700          21,178        22,766             24,473             26,309             28,282             30.403
Other Admin expenses                                        11,223        58,191          22,677        23,964             26,034             29,075             33,380             39,395
Insurance                                                   19,740        20,000          33,788        36,122             86,271            165,588            239,437            234,879
Depredabon                                                 106,243       179,229         208,980       227,447            257,531            916,793          1,285,525          1,308,732
Total Operating Costs                                      499,202       641,653         819,413       873,819           1,092,484          2,889,278         4,196,006          4,132,995
Net Operating Income                                     3,189,494      3,305,783      2,439,318      3,223,746         2,452,411            894,119          1,192,799          1,374,036
Interat Chargeable to Operations                           98,141        160,717        370,126        304,207           249,841            309,675           1,020,969          1,132,041
Foreign Exchange Losses Chargeable to Operations            96,390       (68,294)        (76,654)          -               72,180            184,798            421,103            660,586
Net Profit for the Year                                  2,994,963      3,213,360      2,145,847     2,919,539          2,130,390            399,646           (249,273)          (418,591)
Performance Indicators
Nat Income Before Int. as % of Sales Revenue                  86%            84%            75%           79%                69%                24%                22%                25%
Net Income After lnt. as % of Sales Revenue                   81%            81%            66%            71%               60%                 11%_               -5%                -8%
0.
* -



FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                                                      Annex 5.1
Page 2 of 9
Kenya Powur Company Umited                       I
Projected Balance Sheet Statements
Actual         Actual                                   Projected .
Fisca Year Ending June 30      199             1996          1997           1998            1999               2000              2001               2002
In KSh 000 unless otherwi  statd
Fixed Assts
Plant in Sevioe at cost                                 3,586,337     3.739,154       5,663,420     6,078,780         12,275,104        22,282,501         31,598,365        31,750,621
Accumulated depraecation                                 1,005,698     1,184,927      1,393,907     1,621,355          1,878,886         2,795,679          4,081,204         5,389,936
Net Boock Value                                         2,580,639     2,554,227       4,269,513     4,457,425         10,396,219        19,486,821         27,517,161        26,360,685
Work In Progress                                        3,662,412      3,867,303      8,349,571    18,630,843         21,660,746        16,757,965          9,036.696         9,346,241
Totl Fixed Asets                                        6,243,051     6,421,530      12,619,084    23,088,268         32,056.964        36,244,786         36,553,857        35,706,926
Cunrent Assebt
Cash                                                                        -           79.016      1,022,365          1.227,009         1,826,202          2,193,740         2,888.739
KPLC Debt                                               3,081,985     5,712,490       4,633,137     3,181,641         1,754,756           533,169            869,670            918,022
Otler Debtors                                              82,500        81,400         83,354        85,354             87,403             89,500            91,648             93,848
Stocks                                                    125,144        96,797        146,611        157,364           317,771           576,836            818,000            821,941
Total Current Assets                                    3,289,629     5,890,687       4,942,118     4,446,723         3,386,938          3,025,708          3,973,057         4,722,550
Current Liabilies"
Creditor                                                  728,666       938,681        181,868       192,485            241,807           599,938            892,558            862.849
Curent Maturities on Long term debt                       657,491       644,319        697,197       624,771            634,716           202,844            418.685               -
Total Current Liablities                                1,386,157      1,583,000       879,065       817,256            876,523           802,782           1,311,243           862,849
Net Working Capital                                     1,903,472     4,307,687       4,063,053     3,629,467         2,510,415          2,222,926         2,661,814          3,859,702
Total Asses                                             8,146,523     10,729,217     16,682,137    26,717,735        34,567,380         38,467,713        39,215,671         39,566,628
Financed by:
Share capital                                             152,662       152,662        152,662       152,662            152,662           152,662            152,662            152,662
Reserves                                                3,344,112     6,557,472       8,703,319    11,622,858        13,753,248         14,152,894        13,903,621         13,485,030
Total Equity                                            3,496,774     6,710,134       8,855,981    11,775,520        13,905,910         14,305,556         14,056,283        13,637,692
Long Term Debt
Loans                                                   5,307,240     4,663,402       8,523,353    15,566,986        21,296,186         24,365,000        25,578,073         25,928,936
Less Current maturities                                   657,491       644,319        697,197       624,771            634,716           202,844            418,685               -
4,649,749     4,019,083      7,826,156    14,942,215        20,661,470         24,162,156        25,159,388         25,928,936
Total Financing                                         8,146,523     10,729,217     16,682,137    26,717,735        34,567,380         38,467,713        39,215,671         39,566,628
Peformance Indicator
DebtVEquity Ratio                                            60%           41%             49%           57%               60%                63%               65%                66%
Current Ratio                                                  2             4               6             5                 4                  4                 3                  5       .
'Ch



Annex 5.1
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                                                       Page 3. of 9
"an Povwer Company Umftd
Sourn: and Appil4lo of Funds Stltnnt
Actud           Ac_al_                                      Proected.
FiscsJ Year Ending June 30            1995          199S           1997          1996               1999              2000               2001               2002
In Ksh 000 unles otherwise st*tb
Funds from Inbnul Oper 'ons
Not Inrome                                              2.994,964     3,213,360      2,145,847     2.919,539          2,130,390           399,646           (249,273)          (418,591)
Items not Involving Movement of Funds                                      _
Foreign Exchange Losses                                  (443,321)      (68,294)        (76,654)         -              388,299            557,948           628,590            683,333
Deprnxiaton                                               106,243       179,229        208,980       227,447            257,531           916,793          1.285,525          1,308,732
2,657,886     3,324,295      2,278,173     3,146,986          2,776,220          1,874,387         1,664,841          1,573,473
Othr Soures of Funds
Loan Disbursements                                       336,013         57,853      4,678,121     7,740,831          5,965,672          3,145,583           787,327            86,215
Other
336,013        57,853      4,678,121      7,740,831         5,965,672          3,145,583           787,327             86,215
2,993,899     3,382,148      6,956,294    10,887,817          8,741,892         5,019,970          2,452,168          1,659,688
Appwllcadon of Funds
Loan Amorfization                                        550,979       633.397         741,516       697,197            624,771           634,716            202,844           418,685
Capitl expenditures                                      (178,854)      357,708      6,406,534     10,696,632         9,226,228          5,104,615         1,594,595           461,801
372,125       991,105      7,148,050     11,393,829         9,850,999          5,739,331         1,797,439           880,486
Not Outflow                                             2,621,774     2,391,043        (191,756)    (506,012)         (1,109,107)         (719,361)          654,729            779,202
R prntbd by:
Movement in non-Cash Working Capital                    2,697,748     2,391,043        (270,773)    (1,449,360)       (1,313,751)        (1,318,554)         287.191             84,203
Movement in Cash Balances                                 (75,849)          -           79,016       943,348            204,644            599,193           367,537            694,999
Total Movement in Working Capital                       2,621,899     2,391,043        (191,756)    (506,012)         (1,109,107)         (719,361)          654,729            779,202
Performance Indicators
Debt Service Coverage                                        4.09          4.19           2.05          3.14               3.17               1.98              1.36               1.01
Self-Financing Ratio                                          0%           75%             20%           24%1              23%,               18%                18%                3%
UA1
0.



FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                                                            Annex 5.1
Page 4 of 9
Kenya Power and Ughmng Company Umted
Projected Proflt and Loa Statemet
Actual        Actual                       Projected       -
Fical year Ended June30                      199S           1996             1997             1998              1M99              2000              2001              2002
Kah 000 unles otherwlae statd
Rennue
Eltridty Sale                                        12,957,798    14,925,280        16,232,080        18,591,380        20,663,787        22,993,112        25,070,614       28,448,336
Other Revenue                                                                           162,321           185,914          206,638           229,931           250,706           284,483
Fuel Clause Adjustment                                                                  304,872         1,785.417         2,242,513         2,190,615        2,125,295         1,915,485
12.957,798    14,925,280        16,699,273        20,562,711        23,112,938        25,413,658       27,446,615        30.648,305
Operating Coats
Generton                                              1,019,593     2,432,915         2,133,403         1,981,824         2,305,327         1,019,302          446,035           447,731
Purchased power-KPC                                   1,055,673     1,271,322         2,092,200         1,951,983         1,959,406         3,226,550        5,155,262         5,886,002
Purchased Power-Turkwell                               118,782        595.058           660,760          664,004           681,030           699,221           717,535           737,026
Purchased Power-TRDC                                  3,248,140     2,433,904         2,611,720         2,678,258         2,288,762         1,950,749         1,997,670         1,912,300
Purchased Power-IPPs                                         -            -                -            3,103,796         3,230,758         4,814,307        4,650,721         6,902.704
Tota cost generated + purchased power                 5,442,188     6,733,199         7,498,083        10,379,865        10,465,283        11,710,128        12,967,223        15,885,763
Developmenrt surcharge-KPC                           2,633,023      2,676,114         1,166,531         2,145,582         1,585,489          584,444           171,830
development surcharge-TRDC                                                              388,410          868,010            18,688            20,844            23,701            27,572
Total Development Surcharges                          2.633,023     2,676,114         1,554,941         3.013,592         1,604,177          605,288           195,531            27,572
REF                                                    259,141        298,515           324,642          371,828           413,276           459,882           501,412           568.967
Transmision and distribution                           647,137        860,626           946,689         1,041,357         1,145,493         1,260,043         1.386,047        1,524,651
Admin salaries and wages                             2,161,731      2,433,995         2,570,299         2,714,235         3,128,768         3,598,471        3,799,986         3,799,986
Insurance                                              306,669        284,707          300,651           317,487           365,975           420,917           444,488           444,488
Insbtubonal support                                          -        347,848          481,415           585,881           182,232
Depreciation                                           203,059        335,134          588,463           675,735           770,436           876,994           996,939         1,146,076
Total Operatng Costs                                 11,652,948    13,970,138        14,265,182        19,099,981        18,075,641        18,931,703       20,291,625        23,397,504
Nat Operating Income                                  1,304,850       955,142         2,434,091         1,462,730         5,037,296        6,481,955         7,154,990         7,250,801
Net Interest Expenses                                 (268,900)     (544,496)           76,790            76,790           76,790            76,790            76,790           270,361
Foreign Exchange Losses                                 73,948        (15,279)         (28,184)              -              21,468            15,434            10,157            7,877
Profit Before Taxation                                1,499,802     1,514,917         2,385,485         1,385,940        4,939,039         6,389,731         7,068,042         6,972,563
Corporation Tax 9 35%                                  416,872        396,926          834,920           485,079          1,728,664        2,236,406         2,473,815         2,440,397
Profit After Taxaton                                  1,082,930     1,117,991         1,550,565          900,861          3,210,375        4,153,325         4,594,227         4,532,166
Dividend on Preference Shares                            1,930          1,930            1,930             1,930             1,930             1,930             1,930            1,930
Dividend on Ordinary Shares                             35,168        70,336            63,302            63,302            63,302            63,302            63,302           63,302
Retained Profit                                      1,045,832      1,045,725         1,485,333          835,629         3,145,143         4,088,093         4,528,995         4,466,934
0.
Perfornance IndIcators
Net Income Before Int.& Taxes as % of Sales Revenue+     10.1%          6.4%             15.0%              7.9%             24.4%             28.2%             28.5%            25.5%
,Profit afterlInterest and Taxes as %of SalesRevenue      8.4%1          7.5%,             9.6%1            4.8%1            15.5%             18.1%1            18.3%             15.9%



FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                                                        Anmex 5.1
Page 5 of 9
Konya Power and Ughting Company Limited
Balance Sheet
Actual        Actual                         Projected
Fiscal Year Ended June 30                          199C           1996            1997              1998              1999             2000              2001              2002
In Ksh 000 unless otherwise stated
Fixed Asset at Cost                                  6,245,201     6,636,182         8,199,321         9,716,870        11,200,883       12,882,403        14.717,287        17,211,760
Accumulated Depreciation                             2,343,182     2,677,835         3,266,298         3,942,033        4,712,470         5,589,463         6,586,402        7,732,478
Net Book Value                                       3,902.019     3,958,347         4,933,022         5,774,836        6,488,413         7,292,940         8,130,885        9,479,282
Work In Progress                                      621,320        812,383           843,805          879,893          1,088,007        1,351,809         1,664,713        1,798,837
4,523,339     4,770,730         5,776,828        6,654,730         7,576,420         8,644.749        9,795,598        11,278,120
Investments                                             4,300          4,300            4,300             4,300             4,300            4,300             4,300             4,300
Deferred Debt                                         298,056        233,591           175,386          175,386           175,386           175,386          175,386           175,386
Current Asset.
Cash                                                  493,256        374,459         1,633,034        (2,492,294)      (2,920,024)       (2,961,225)          68,770         1,309,179
Investments                                          2,882,899     4,097,121         4,097,121         4,097,122        4,097,123         4,097,124         4,097,125        4,097,126
Debtors                                              4,433,018     5,114,387         2,705,888         3,099,183        3,444,653         3,832,952        4,179,271         4,742,338
Stocks                                               2,537,327     3,189,427         3,974,769         4,653,058        5,228,021         5,876,266         6,551,438        7,637,905
Total Current Assets                                10,346,500    12,775,394        12,410,812         9,357,069        9,849,773        10,845,117        14,896,605       17,786,548
Current LiabilKites
Due to KPC                                           3,081,985     5,712,490         4,633,137         3,181,641        1,754,756          537,866           859,382           981,197
Due to TRDC                                          3,229,405     3,053,015         2,725,135         1,972,974        1,144,791          325,190           333,012           318,780
Others                                               3,529,039     3,152,010         2,474,156         1,686,694          901,531          116,560           119,613           122,862
Tax                                                   230,232        (10,890)         834,920           485,079         1,728,664         2,236,406        2,473,815         2,440,397
Dividends                                              50,252        113,207           65,232            65,232            65,232           65,232            65,232           65,232
Current Maturities on L-T Debt                        332,954        328,582          359,699           307,586           263,177          320,051           247,873
10,453,867    12,348,414        11,092,278        7,699,206         5,858,150        3,601,305         4,098,926         3,928,468
Net Working Capial                                    (107,367)      426,980         1,318,534         1,657,864        3,991,623         7,243,812       10,797,678        13,858,080
Total Assets                                         4,718,328     5,435,601         7,275,047         8,492,279       11,747,729        16,068,247       20,772,963        25,315,886
Capital and Reserves
Ordinary Shares                                       351,680        351,680          351,680           351,680           351,680          351,680           351,680          351,680
Preference Shares (4%)                                 36,000         36,000           36,000            36,000           36,000            36,000            36,000           36,000
Preference Shares (7%)                                  7,000          7,000            7,000             7,000            7,000             7,000             7,000            7,000
Reserves                                             2,551,745     3,597,953         5,083,286        5,918,915         9,064,058        13,152,152       17,681,147        22,148,081
Total Share Capital and Reserves                     2,946,425     3,992,633         5,477,966        6,313,595         9,458,738        13,546,832       18,075,827        22,542,761
Long-Tern Debt                                       2,104,857     1,771,550         2,156,780        2,486,269         2,552,166        2,841,463         2,945,004         2,773,120    P
Current Maturities                                    332,954        328,582          359,699           307,586          263,177           320,051           247,873                     03
1,771,903     1,442,968         1,797,081        2,178,683         2,288,989        2,521,412         2,697,132         2,773,120   lb
Total Financing                                      4,718,328     5,435,601         7,275,047        8,492,278        11,747,727        16,068,244       20,772,959        25,315,881   sn 
Performance Indicators                                                                                                                                                                  0.
DebVEquity ratio                                         42%            31%               28%              28%               21%               17%              14%               11%
Current ratio                                            0.99           1 03             1.12              1.22              1.68             3.01              3.63             4.53



Annex 5.1
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                                                    Page 6 of 9
K*nya Powe  nd Ughtng Company
Sta"nnt of Sources and Application of Fund
Actual         Actual                      Projected
Ficl Year Ended June 30                          1S96           1996            1997             1998              199              2000             2001              2002
In Ksh 000 unles oathewae sbtatd
Funda fom Innal Operatona
Net Incom                                           1.499,802     1,514,917         2,385.485        1,385,940        4,939.039         6,389,731        7,068,042        6,972,563
Adjuant for itrna not Invoving Movemnent of Funds
Depecdation                                          203,059        335,134          588,463          675,735           770,436          876,994          996,939         1,146,076
Foreign Exchange Loases                               73,948        (15,279)         (28,184)             -              21,468           15,434           10,157             7,877
1,776,809     1,834,772        2,945,764        2,061,675         5,730,943        7,282.158         8,075.138        8,126,516
Ohr Soure, of Funds
Loan Disburaements                                                     -             799,920          689,188           314,111          488,097          354,125
Deferred debt                                         80,627         64,465           58,205                               -                 -                         -
Foreign Exchange Losses                                                                  -                -              37,905           48,943           59,310           68,111
Other                                                    665         6,085               -
Total Sources                                       1,858,101     1,905,322         3,803,889        2,750,863        6,082,958        7,819,199         8,488,573        8,194,627
Appic aton of Funds
Loan Amorfization                                    407,510        356,417          386,506          359,699           307,586          263,177          320,051          247,873
Capital Expenditures                                 979,782        588,608         1,594,561        1,553,637        1,692,127         1.945,322        2,147,788        2,628,597
Taxation Paid                                                       396,926          834,920          485,079         1,728.664        2,236.406         2,473,815        2,440,397
Dividends Paid                                                       72,266           65.232           65,232           65,232            65,232           65,232           65,232
1,387,292     1.414,217        2,881,219        2,463,647         3,793,609        4,510,137        5,006,886         5,382,099
Nat Outiowllnflow                                    470,809        491,105          922,671          287,216         2,289,349        3,309,062         3,481,687        2,812,528
Movement in non-Cash Working Capital                 232,405       609,902          (335,904)        4,412,544        2,717,080        3,350,263          451.692         1,572,119
Movement in Cash balances                            238,404       (118,797)       1,258,575        (4,125,328)        (427,730)         (41,201)        3,029,996        1,240,409
Total Movement in Working Capital                    470,809        491,105          922,671          287,216         2,289,349        3,309,062         3,481,687        2,812,528
Parfonnanca IndIcator
Debt Service Coverage                                     13           (10)               6                5                15               21               20                16
Saf-Financing Ratio                                     52%            46%              22%               11%              34%              40%              38%               53%
0% 
Pt I
0.
'h_



Annex 5.1
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                                    Page 7 of 9
Tans River Development Company Llmited                                                  .
Projected Profit and Lose Sttments                             
Actual     Actual                  Projected
Flbcal Years nded June 30       1996         1996         1997         1998         1999       2000        2001        2002
Kah 000 unles otherwiea stabd
Revenue
Bulk sales to KPLC                                    3,312,140    2,433.904    2,611,720    2,678,258    2,288,762   1,950,749    1,997,670   1,912,300
Development Surcharge                             .                              388,410     868.010       18,668     20,844       23,701    27,572
3,312,140    2,433,904    3,000,130   3,546,268    2,307,430   1,971,593    2,021,371   1,939,872
Ope,abng Costs
generation                                              94,716      220,370      231,980     244,224      257,134    270,750      285.109    300,253
transmission & distribution expenses                     4,123        5.005        5,285        5,581       5.894      6.224        6,572     6,940
admin salaries and wages                                23,946       31,500       33,264       35,127      37,094     39,171       41,365     43,681
Other Admin expenses & insurance                       117,097      145,663      153,820     162,434      171,530    181,136      191,280    201,991
Masinga Debt ServiCe                                    47,956       47,956       49,729      48,795       47,860     46,926       45,991    45,057
Kiambere Debt ServiCe                                 2,331,969    1,171,860    1,297,966    1,451 ,798    1,289.284   1,267,738    1,244,266  1,218,777
Deprciation                                             43, 104      35,550       36,089      86,425       88,292     90,377       92,747    95,504
Total Operating Costs                                 2,662,911    1,657,904   1,808,134    2,034,384    1,897,089   1,902,322    1,907,329   1,912,204
Net Operating Income                                   649,229      776,000    1,191,995    1,511,884     410,341     69,272      114,041    27,668
IntereSt Chargeable to Opeations                       188,124     1 52,337     132,338       81,452       39,861    18.795        7,414        96
Foreign Exchange LOsses Chargeable to Operations       214,809     (107,245)     (27,408)        -         11,516      5,670       2,180         29
Net Profit for the Year                                246,296      730,908    1,087,065    1,430,432     358,965     44,807      104,448    27,543
Check Net profit=Depn-debt Service+Dev surch+ Forex var.                       1,087,065    1,430,432     358,965     44,807      104,448    27,543
Perfromance Ratios                                                                                                             _ 
Net income Before Interest as % of Revenues               20%          32%          40%          43%          18%        4%           6%         1%
Net inComeAfter Interest aS % of Revenues                  7%          30%          36%          40%         16%         2%           5%         1%
O0.



Annex 5.1
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                                  Page 8 of 9
Tsna River Development Company Limited
Projected Balance Sheet Statmet 
Fiscal Years Eneded June 30        Actual     Actual                  Projected
19E          1996         1"7         1M99         19m         2000        2001       2002
_________  iKah 000 unless otherwise  d
Fixed A"ets
Plant in Service d cost                               1,677,999    1,881,995    1,698,495    2.931,155   2,949,823  2,970,867    2,994,368  3,021,940
Accumulated depreciation                               714,954      750,504      786,593     873,019      961,311   1.051,688    1,144,434   1,239,938
Net Book Value                                         963,045      931,491      911,902    2,058,136    1,988,512   1,918,980    1,849,934   1,782,002
Work In Progress                                           713          912      387,815      23,671       24,743     25,869       27,009     28,203
Total Fbied Assets                                     963,758      932,403    1,299,717    2,081,807    2.013,256  1,944,849    1,876,943  1,810,205
Current Asset
Cash                                                       157           7       68.039      564,523      626,735    670,206     (126,836)   (35,986)
KPLC Debt                                             3,229,405    3,053,015    2,725,135   1,972,974    1,144,791    325,190     333,012    318,780
Other Debtors                                           11,306       17,200       35.890      37.900       40,023     42,264       44,631    47,130
Stocks                                                  98,151       60,544      109,278     115,398      121,860    128.684      135,890    143,500
Total Current Assets                                  3,339,019    3,130,766    2,938,342    2,690,794   1,933,408  1,166,344     386,697    473,425
Current Liabilities
Creditors                                             3,315,832    3,106,568    2,774,799    2,446,305   1,649,571    864,237      77,716    71,674
Current Maturities on Long term debt                   669,521      400,312      567,395     400,244      101,215    168,259        2,180       -
Total Current Liabilities                             3,985,353    3,506,880    3,342,194    2,846,549   1,750,786   1,032,496     79,896    71,674
Net Working Capital                                   (646,334)    (376,114)    (403,852)    (155,755)    182.623    133,847     306,801    401,751
Total Assets                                           317,424      556,289      895,865    1,926,053    2,195,878  2,078,697    2,183,744  2,211,956
Financed by:                                                                                                          _
Share capital                                          120,002      120,002      120,002     120,002      120,002    120,002      120,002    120,002
Remrves                                              (1,716,642)    (985,734)    101,331    1,531,762    1,890,727   1,935,534    2,039,982  2,067,524
Totel Equity                                         (1,596,640)    (865,732)   221,333    1,651,764    2,010,729  2,055,536    2,159,984  2,187,526
Long Term Debt                                                                                     _
Loans                                                2,583,585    1,822,333    1,241,927     674,532      286,364    191,419      25,940     24,429
Leu Current maturities                                 669,521      400,312     567,395      400,244      101,215    168,259       2,180        -
1,914,064    1,422,021    674,532      274,288      185,149     23,160      23,760     24,429
Total Financing                                        317,424      556,289     895,865    1,926,053    2,195,878  2,078,697    2,183,744  2,211,956
Performance Ratios                                                                                                                                                     C0
Debt as a % of Total Capital                             262%         191%          85%          29%         12%         9%           1%         1%                    O
Current Ratio                                              0.84        0.89          0.9          0.9         1.1        1.1          4.8       6.6



Annex 5.1
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                                  Page 9 of 9
Tun River Deopmet Company Umited
Sourcee and Application of Funds  ttnt
Actual       Acbtal                  Projected 
Fiscal Yea  Ended June30                          1S6               1996    117          1ns          1999        2000        2001       2002
Koh 000 unhes otherwIs atated
Funds from internal Operations
Not Income                                             246,297      730,908    1,087,065    1,430,432     358,965     44,807      104,448    27,543
Items not lnvoMng Movemnent of Funds
Foreign Exchange Loses                                 214,809     (107.245)     (27,408)        -         11,516      5,670        2,180        29
Depreciation                                            43,104       35,550      36,089       86,425       88,292     90,377      92,747     95,504
504.210     659,213    1,095,746    1,516,857     458,773    140,854      199,374    123,076
Other Sources of Funds
Loan Disbursement                                                      -         22,000          -            -         -            -          -
Foreign Exchange Losse                                                               -                        560        600         600        640
-        22,000                      560        600          600        640
504,21 0    659,213    1,117,746    1.516,857      459,333    141,454     199,974    123,716
Application of Funds
Loan Amorfization                                      501,893      654,007     574,998      567,395      400,244    101,215     188.259      2,180
Capital expenditures                                     1,468       4,195      403,403      868,516       19,741     21,970      24,840     28,766
503,361     658,202      978,401    1,435.911     419,985    123,185      193,099     30,948
Net Ouflow                                                 849        1,011      139,345      80,946       39,348     18,269        6,875     92.770
Represnted by:
Movement in non-Cash Working Capital                     1,359          -         71,313     (415,537)    (22,864)   (25,201)     803,916      1,920
Movement in Cash Balances                                 (510)       1,011       68,032     496,483       62,213     43,470     (797,042)    90,850
Total Movement in Workig Capital                           849        1,011      139,345      80,946       39,348     18,269        6,875     92,770
Perfomance Ratios
Debt Service Coverage                                       0.7         0.8          1.5          2.3          1.0       1.2          1.1       54.1
Self-Financing                                              0%        -18%          15%          49%          22%       22%          22%       210%
0. 
Ul
40



Annex 6.1
Page I of 4
KENYA
Energy Sector Reform and Power Development Project
Project Implementation Planl
Table of Contents
Page No.
INTRODUCTION ..............................................................                                              ix
Summary of Project Objectives ..............................................................                            ix
Summary of Projects Description and Components ...............................................................x
SECTION I ................................................................
1.0   Energy Sector Policy Framework .I
1.1    Policy Objectives for the Energy Sector .
1.2  Sector Restructuring                                                   .1
1.3   Least Coast Investment Planning                                             .2
1.4          Energy Pricing .......................I...................
1.5          Energy Efficiency.3
1.6          Rural Energy Supply and New and Renewable Energy                                .4
SECTION 2 ........5
2.0   Detailed Project Description                                              .5
2.1          Project Objectives .......................    :                                                             5
2.2          Project Cost Estimates.5
2.3   Project Scope and Description .12
2.3.1  Sector Restructuring and Reform .12
2.3.1.1  Legal and Regulatory Reform .12
2.3. 1.2  Promotion of Private Sector Participation .13
2.3.2  Efficiency Improvements .13
2.3.2.1  Demand Side Management Improvements .13
2.3.2.2  Industrial Energy Management .14
2.3.2.3   Energy Efficiency Standards for Electric Equipment .14
2.3.3   Power System Expansion and Upgrading .14
2.3.4        Kipevu I and II Medium Speed Diesel Electric Power Plants .14
2.3.5    Olkaria II 2 x 32 MW Geothermal Power Station .14
2.3.6    Olkaria III 2 x 32 MW Geothermal Power Station .15
2.3.7        Distribution Reinforcement and Loss Reduction Program .15
2.3.8   Distribution Reinforcement Subcomponent .15
2.3.9  Power Loss Reduction .16
2.3.10   Development of Indigenous Resources .17
2.3.10.1                             I Make-up Wells Connection .18
2.3.10.2  Geothermal Resource Assessment Program .18
2.3.10.3 Relocation of X-2 Camp.                                                                                         19
PIP will be revised to exclude the petroleum subsector components which have been delinked from the project, and
the Nairobi-Mombasa and Nairobi-Kiambere 220 kv transmission lines for which funding has not yet been secured.



Annex 6.1
Page 2 of 4
2.3.10.4           Household Energy Strategy .........................................................                                                                      19
2.3.10.5           Solar Photovoltaic Standardization Study and Information and Dissemination ................................................... 19
2.3.10.6          LPG  Cylinder Standardization Study ......................................................... 19
2.4  Project Financing Plan .............,,26
2.5               Major Loan Covenants/Target Dates .........................                                                                                               32
2.6               Detailed Financial and Economic Analysis of the Project ......................... 32
2.6.1              Economic Analysis of Projects for KPLC/KPC ........................... 32
2.6.1.8             Risk Analysis of Power Sub-sector Components ......................... 38
SECTION 3..47
3.0                Projection  Organization  and Management ............................................................                                                   47
3.1               Organization Structure ............................................................ 47
3.2               Project Management Arrangement .........................................................                                                                 48
3.3               Management of Various Components of the Energy Sector Investment Project ................................................. 48
3.3.1              Energy   Sector Policy Reform  Studies ......................................................... 50
3.3.2             Efficiency Improvements ......................................................... 51
3.3.3             Power System  Expansion and Upgrading ......................................................... 51
3.3.4             Development of Indigenous Resources of Energy ......................................................... 53
SECTION 4.56
4.0   Project Plan and Implementation .56
4.1               Consolidated Project Implementation Schedule Summary .56
4.2    Implementation Schedule for each component .56
4.3    Implementation, Supervision and Control .56
SECTION 5..57
5.0               Procurement ........                 ........................................................................ 57
5.1               IDA  Procurement Guidelines ................................................................................ 57
5.2               GOK  Procurement Guidelines for Goods, Equipment and Services ....................................                             ............................... 57
5.3               KPLC  Procurement Guidelines ................................................................................ 57
5.4               Procurement Guidelines for Goods, Equipment and Services for OECF, EIB, etc .............................................. 57
5.5               Summary of Disbursement Procedures of IDA ................................................................................                               57
5.6                 Disbursement Procedures for OECF, EIB, GOK, KPLC, KPC .57
5.7               Accounting and Auditing Procedures for IDA ............................................................                                                  57
5.8               Accounting and Auditing Procedures for OECF, EIB, GOK, KPLC, KPC  .......................................  ................. 57
5.9               Procurement Methods, Procurement Processes and Expected Time Lapse .........................................................  57
5.10              Procurement Processing, Disbursement Procedures, and Accounting and Auditing ......................                                     ..................... 57
SECTION 6 ..........58
6.0                Financial Management ................................................................................                                                   58
6.1               Schedule of Disbursements for each Component ................................................................................ 58
6.1.2             Economic Analysis and Disbursement Schedule of Project Components Implemented by KPC AND KPLC ... 60
6.2                Funds Flow  Chart ................................................................................                                                      62
6.3               Work Certificates and Payment Procedures ................................................................................ 62
6.4               Financial Statements and Reports ................................................................................                                        62
6.5               Audits ................................................................................ 62
SECTION 7..63
7.0  Monitoring and Reporting .63
7.1               Key Development Impact Indicators for measuring Progress in Reaching Project Objectives .63
7.2               Key Indicators for Monitoring Progress in the Physical Implementation of the Project.                                                                     63
7.3               Key Financial Indicators to assess the Project Budgetary and Financial Health .................................................. 63



Annex 6.1
Page 3 of 4
7.4               Monitoring and Evaluation .........................................................................                                                   63
7.5               Reporting Routines .........................................................................                                                          63
7.5.1             Filing Index/Filing/Library .........................................................................                                                63
7.5.2             Protocol for Communication and Copy Distribution .                            ......................................................................... 63
7.5.3             Computers and System  Management and Operation ...............................                              .......................................... 63
7.6               Implementation Completion .........................................................................                                                  65
SECTION 8.65
8.0               Environmental Mitigation Plan and Monitoring Arrangements .............................................                                              65
8.1               Environmental Mitigation Plan for KPLC  and KPC  ............................................. 65
8.1. I            North East Olkaria 2x32 MW    Power Development Project .............................................                                                 65
8.1.2             Mombasa Diesel Generating Power Plant Project .............................................                                                          67
8.2               Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Arrangement ............................................. 70
8.2.1             Mitigation and Monitoring Arrangements for KPC  and KPLC .............................................                                                70
8.3               Implementation Guidelines ............................................. 71
8.3.1.1           North East Olkaria 11, 2x32 MW   Power Development Project .............................................                                              71
8.3.1.2           Mombasa Diesel Generating Power Plant Project .............................................                                                           72
8.3.2             Environmental Guidelines for KPLC and KPC .............................................                                                               72
8.3.2.1           North East Olkaria 2x32 MW   Power Development Project .............................................                                                 72
8.3.2.2           Mombasa Diesel Generating Power Plant Project .............................................                                                           73
SECTION 9 .......                                                                                                                                                       78
9.1               Policy Reform  Items, Schedules and Budgets .........................................................................                                 78
9.1.1             Terms of Reference for Study to Update the Electricity Tariff Study Completed in November 1993 .........                                         ....... 78
9.2               Institutional Support Items, Schedules and Budgets .........................................................................                          82
9.2.1             Institutional Strengthening Items for MOE .........................................................................                                   82
9.2.2             Institutional Strengthening Items for KPLC  and KPC  ...................................                        ...................................... 89
SECTION 10 ........................................107
Capacity Building..107
10.0   Human Resource Development (HRD) .107
10.1               Transfer of Expertise Guidelines for Power Sub-sector .107
10.2              PowerrSub-sector.107
APPENDIX I..I.
IDA Procurement Guidelines                                             ..111
A.                Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by World Bank as Executing Agency .111
B.    Procurement Under IBRD Loans and Credits .114
APPENDIX II .118
Government of Kenya Procurement Guidelines for Goods, Equipment and Services .118
APPENDIX III .126
KPLC Procurement Guidelines.126
APPENDIX IV.131
Procurement Guidelines for Goods, Equipment and Services .131
APPENDIXV V132
Summary of Disbursement Procedures for IDA/IBRD .13 
APPENDIXVI . .......I...........144
Disbursement Procedures .144



Annex 6.1
Page 4 of 4
APPENDIX Vll ....................................4................................................ 145
Accounting and Auditing Procedures for IDA/IBRD ..................                                                              145
APPENDIX Vill ...................146
Accounting and Auditing Procedures .................. 146



Annex 6.2
Page 1 of 1
Res
-    -     ------------- -----------______
---- _---------------------------
-S3- ----1 X----- 1---------------
-     ____- ----------------------
_       _.
0
ia:    g _ . _____________________--------
cc
',. .',   1;0JI 1   .,
I-  e*F  



Annex 6.3
Page I of 2
KENYA
IDA-Financed Civil Works
Est'd #. of  Description                                       Estimated   IDA          Procurement
Packages                                                       Cost (US$)  Funding      Method
I      Olkaria 11 Power Plant-Civil Works                  50,600,000   26,800,000      ICB
5      Civil Works for Substations under the Line Loss        950,200     807,300       NCB
Reduction Subcomponent
Total                                              51,550,200   27,607,300
IDA-Financed Goods
Est'd #. of  Description                                       Estimated   IDA           Procurement
Packages                                                       Cost (US$)  Funding         Method
IDA-Financed Goods
I      Olkaria 11 Power Plant-Electromechanical Equipment    51, 376,800   41,615,200   ICB
for 64 MW
Equipment for demand Side Management1               4,418,800    4,418,800      ICB
2       Equipment for Line Loss Reduction                   5,449,300    5,449,300      ICB
2      Connection of make-up wells for Olkaria 1            1,188,400     713,000       [CB
2       Office Equipment for MoE's Implementation Support      80,300       80,300       Sh2
Group
I      Household Energy Strategy                               11,200      11,200        Sh
2       Motor Vehicles for Geothermal Resource Assessment     138,000      138,000       Sh
2       Drilling consumables for geothermal wells           4,899,300    4,899,300      ICB
2       Spare parts for drilling operations                   261,700     261,700       ICB
2       Spare parts for drilling operations                   200,000     200,000       NCB
2      Geothertnal drilling equipment                       4,136,100    4,136,000      ICB
Total                                              72,159,900   61,923,600
List of EDA-Financed Studies3
Title                                                    Estimated          Status
mm
Power Sector Organization Study-phase 1                     20       completed under PPF
Legal and Regulatory Framework                              15       completed under PPF
Petroleum Market Structure and Pricing                      18       completed under PPF
Study on Financing Mechanisms for Energy Efficiency         15
Measures
Feasibility Studies and Detailed Design for Olkaria IV      185
Prefeasibility Studies for Olkaria Domes/Suswa/Longonot     185
Line Loss Reduction                                         20
LPG Clynder Standard Study                                  10
Solar PV and Standard Study                                  5
Preparation of Future Studies                               100
Total                                                       553
1 To be determined on the basis of the results of demand management programs to be designed by KPLC with the
assistance of consultants.
2 Sh = shopping procedures, procurement to be carried out in packages of less than USS50,000.
3 Consultants services for studies will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for selection of
Consultants, which generally require shortlisting of prospective firns.



Annex 6.3
Page 2 of 2
Listed of IDA-Financed Consultants Service4
Title                                                      Estimated          Status
mm
Demand Side Management Programs                               20
Distribution Systems Adviser                                   3
Engineering Contract for Olkaria It Power Plant              920
Drilling Services for connection of make-up wells for Olkaria  45
Procurement Services for connection of make up wells for       6
Olkaria I
Drilling by KPC with own rig                                  35
Engineering Adviser to KPC CPDM                               80
Financial Adviser to KPC CPDM                                 80
Engineering Adviser to MoE's Implementation Support           80
Group
Financial Adviser to MoE's Implementation Support Group       70
Policy Adviser to MoE                                         48        Ongoing under PPF
Household Energy Strategy                                     14
Private Sector Participation                                  40        Ongoing under PPF
Implementation Support for Sector Restructuring and Reform    135
Support on Petroleum sub-sector deregulation                   2        Ongoing under PPF
Procurement of drilling services                              35
Geothermal Advisory Board                                     50
Total                                                        1663
4 Consultants services will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for selection of Consultants, which
generally require shortlisting of prospective firms.



Annex 6.4
Page I of I
KENYA
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Cumulative                                      Standard
Disbursement            Disbursement            Cumulative (%)          Disbursement
Fiscal Year Ending      (US$ Million)           (US$ Million)           Disbursement            Cumulative %
Fiscal Year 1997/98
December 31            3.5                     3.5                     2.0              0%
June 30               10.0                    13.5                    11.0              6%
Fiscal Year 1998/99
December 31           15.0                    28.5                    23.0               14%
June 30               17.0                    45.5                    36.0              22%
Fiscal Year 1999/2000
December 31           20.0                    65.5                    52.0              34%
June 30               17.3                    82.8                    66.0              42%
Fiscal Year 2000/2001
December 31           17.3                   100.1                    80.0              50%
June 30                9.5                   109.6                    88.0              62%
Fiscal Year 2001/2002
December 31            9.5                   119.1                    95.0              74%
June 30                1.4                   120.5                    96.0              82%
Fiscal Year 2002/2003
December 31            1.2                   121.7                    97.0              90%
June 30                1.2                   122.9                    98.0              98%
Fiscal Year 2003/2004
December 31            1.1                   124.0                    99.0              99%
June 30                0.5                   125.0                   100.0               100%
100     . _ _ _ _ _ _ __''_  _ _ _
80
70
60                      _r
40 : - =S1 : | _ ~~~~~Standard|
30
20
10. 
0
O~O
go   CD                  0  o4
_  _    N    b1    N      b 04   N



Annex 6.5
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
Implementation Support Plan and Staff Input
1.     The Borrower's supervision activities would be carried out by the Ministry of Energy (MOE), Kenya Power and Lighting
Company (KPLC), and Kenya Power Company (KPC). Their supervisory functions would involve the following:
(a)    initial review, recording and forwarding of:
(i)    all procurement orders
(ii)    all disbursement requests
(iii)   special accounts expenditures/reimbursements
(b)    preparation of an annual project implementation budget
(c)    preparation of bidding and other project contract documents
(d)    preparation of monthly financial statements
(e)    preparation of semi-annual progress reports to IDA in December and June of each year on all aspects of project
implementation
(f)    preparation of annual project accounts
(g)    monitor key performance indicators and environmental mitigation plans
(h)    arranging for the annual audits of project accounts and SOEs
(i)    liaising with all Bank supervision missions
2.     In addition to the regular implementation support missions to be carried out by IDA in accordance with the schedule set out
below, IDA staff would spend time on dealing with correspondence, reviewing and commenting on procurement documents,
disbursement requests, half-yearly reports and audited accounts. The amount of time estimated is as follows:
HQ Time        Field Time     Total Time
Project Year 1         8 sws          36 sws         44 sws
Project Year 2         8 sws          36 sws         44 sws
Project Year 3         7 sws          39 sws         39 sws
Project Year 4         7 sws          27 sws         34 sws
Project Year 5         5 sws          27 sws         32 sws
Project Year 6         5 sws          27 sws         32 sws
Project Year 6         5 sws          27 sws         32 sws
Project Year 7         5 sws          27 sws         32 sws
3.     Mid-term Review by the Borrower and IDA would be held not later than June 30, 2000. The terms of reference and
background papers for the review would be prepared by the Ministry of Energy and the implementing agencies with IDA staff
assistance as may be necessary. The principal objective of the implementation review would be to examine the status of
implementation of the project, determine any required changes in design and implementation arrangements needed to ensure
achievement of the project's development objectives. Specifically, the review meetings will focus on the status of progress in: (i)
adjustment of tariffs towards LRMC; (ii) attracting private sector participation; (iii) restructuring of organization of the power
subsector; and (iv) the operation of the Electricity Regulatory Board.



Annex 6.5
Page 2 of 2
BANK IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT INPUT (STAFF WEEKS) INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Fiscal Year      Approximate Date          Activity                                   Expected SkiHs               Staff Input
FY1997/98        November 1997             Implementation Support Mission             Sr. Financial Analyst        18.0
Power Engineer
Energy Economist
Operations Analyst
Sector Restructuring Expest
March 1998               Implementation Support Mission             Sr. Financial Analyst         18.0
Power Engineer
Energy Economist
Operations Analyst
Environmental Specialist
FY1998/99        November 1998             Implementation Support Mission            Sr. Financial Analyst         18.0
Power Engineer
Energy Economist
Operations Analyst
Environmental Specialist
March 1999               Implementation Support Mission             Sr. Financial Analyst         18.0
Power Engineer
Energy Economist
Operations Analyst
Environmental Specialist
Procurement Specialist
FY1999/00        October 1999              Implementation Support Mission             Sr. Financial Analyst        15.0
Power Engineer
Energy Economist
Operations Analyst
Environmental Specialist
June 30, 2000             Mid-Term Review                           Sr. Financial Analyst         24.0
Power Engineer
Energy Economist
Operations Analyst
Environmental Specialist
Procurement Specialist
FY2000/01        October 2000              Implementation Support Mission            Sr. Financial Analyst         15.0
Power Engineer
Energy Economist
Operations Analyst
._________________ _  Environmental Specialist
March 2001               Implementation Support Mission             Sr. Financial Analyst         12.0
Power Engineer
Energy Economist
Environmental Specialist
FY2001/02        October 2001              Implementation Support Mission             Sr. Financial Analyst        15.0
Power Engineer
Energy Economist
Operations Analyst
Environmental Specialist
March 2002               Implementation Support Mission             Sr. Financial Analyst         12.0
Power Engineer
Energy Economist
Environmental Specialist
FY2002/03        October 2002              Implementation Support Mission             Sr. Financial Analyst        15.0
Power Engineer
Energy Economist
Operations Analyst
l__________________________                Envirommental Specialist
March 2003               Implementation Support Mission             Sr. Financial Analyst         12.0
Power Engineer
Energy Economist
Envirommental Specialist
FY2003/04        October 2003              Implementation Support Mission             Sr. Financial Analyst        12.0
Power Engineer
Energy Economist
Environmental Specialist
March 2004                Preparation Work for Implementation       Sr. Financial Analyst         15.0
Completion Report                         Power Engineer
Energy Economist
Operations Analyst
Environmental Specialist



Annex 7.1
Page 1 of 1
KENYA
Least-Cost Generation Expansion Plan
Fiscal Year                   Generation Additions                    Net Installed   Critical    Weighted
Capacity     LOLE           EUE
l____________    ____________              ___________      (M W )       (d/yr)       (GW -h)
Hydro       Geothermal   LS Diesel   MS Diesel
1993 - 1994                                                               747         365           191
1994- 1995                                                                747         357           273
1995 -1996                                                               747          365           307
1996 -1997                                                               747          365           438
1997 -1998                                               6 x 12.5         809         365           250
1998 -1999                     2 x 30.7      1 x 50      6 x 12.5        995          4.4           0.5
1999 - 2000      2 x 30                                                  1032          5.5          0.7
Sondu Miriu
2000 - 2001                    2 x3/07                                    1094         1.7           0.1
2001 - 2002      2 x 45                                                   1150         1.0           0.4
Ewaso A
2002 - 2003   2 x 18 + 2 x 27  2 x 30.7                                   1297        0.02           0.0
Ewaso B
2003 - 2004                                   1 x 50                      1347        0.03           0.0
2004 - 2005                    2 x 30.7                                   1409        0.05           0.0
2005 - 2006                                                               1409         0.4           0.4
2006 - 2007                    2 x 30.7                                   1470         0.6           0.5
2007 - 2008                                   2 x 50                      1539         0.8           0.7
2008-2009                      2x30.7                                     1601         1.3           1.4
2009-2010                                     1x50                        1651         3.2           4.7
2010-2011                      2 x 30.7       1 x 50                      1762         2.5           3.1
2011 - 2012                                   1 x50                       1812         5.8           9.0
2012 - 2013                                   2 x 50                      1912         6.5          10.5
TOTAL    240 MW              430 MW    450 MW    150 MW
NOTE: Unit deratings and retirements are not shown in the above table.
SOURCE: KPLC andAcres International



Annex 7.2
KENYA                                                                        Page 1 of 3
Energy Sector Reform and Power Development Project
Economic Analysis
Year    |lectricity Sales    |Benef"ts             Investment Cost 0 8 M Cost |Fuel Cost                                           |Net Benefits
I iththe   Without the  Incremental lIncremental Withthe  With the    Without the  Incrermental With the    Withoutthe  Ilncremental Total Project Total Project Net
Project    Sales      Benefts    Project       PProject   Project    O&M cost   Project    Project    fuel cost    Costs    Benefts   IBenefts
|GWh  |GWh  GWh       E USS million  USS million  USS million  USS million  USS million  USS million 1USS million  US$ million  USS million  US$ million  USS million
1997    2,948       2,948          0J         0           165          0          0         0         20         20          0        165          0:      -165
1998    3,3401      3,330         10          1           314                                                                                       1       -312
1999    3,401       3,369        32           5           250         12      70 i           5         17         18         -1        255j         5       -250
2000    4,124       3,453       671          94           112         28          7         21         28         17         11        144         94        -50
2001     4,346      3,486       8601        120            54         32          7         25         17,        18i        -1         78I       120         42
2002    4,579       3,400      1,1801       165             0         33,         7         26         19         161         3         30j       165        135
2003    4,850       3,373      1,477        207             0         35          5         30         141        12          2         321       207        175
2004    5,143       3,389      1,7541       245             0         39,        5j         34         17         13;         5         39'       2451       207
2005    5,002       2,816      2,186        306             0         45          5         40         29'        13         16         55        306'       251
2006    5,020'      2 817      2,203I       308             0         45          5         40         30         13         17         571       3081       251
2007     50321      2,842      2,190        307             0         45          5         40         33         13!        20         601       3071       246
2008    4,860i      2,656      2,205        309             0         43      _   3         40     -   37-         0         37         77        309        232
2009    4,853;      2,656      2,197        308             0         43          3 -       40         38          0         38         78'       3081       229
2010    4,855       2,656      2,200        308             0         43          3     -  40      39              0         39         791       308        229
2011    4,8481      2,656      2,192        307             0        43           3         40         27          0         27         67i       3071       240
2012    4,837       2,656      21811       305              0        43    _ _3             40         27          0,        27         67t       305        238
2013    4,830       2,656      2,175       304              0        43     _    3          40         27          0         27         671       304        237
2014    4,820       2,6561     2,1641       303-     -                43          3-    - 40           27          0         27         671       303i       236
2015    4,821       2,656      2,166l       303             0        43 -         3         40         27         0          27         67        3031       236
2016    4,811       2,656      2,155        302             0    . 43           3           40         27          0         27         671       302        235
2017    4,797       2,656      2,142        300             0 .       43          3         40         27          0         27         67        300        233
2018    4,7891      2,656      2,134       299              0        43           3         40         27          0         27         671       299        232
2019    4,7781      2,656      2,123       297             11        43t          3         40         27          0         27         78!       297i       219
2020    4,770j      2,656      2,1141      296             22        43-          3         40         27     -   0          27         891       296        207
Residual value                                      -380 -                    r                                                  -380          01       380
=                                                                  * I_________                                      =               .   .1 .            . ll - 
PV of costs @12% discount:           $926       ..
PV of benefits @ 12% discount:     $1,269 j    .
Net senefts    12Y. discount         $343
Rate of Retum:                     17.327.6        .   I           I .   .   I                                               _   _   _   _   _   _          P_ lb
1/       Eledricity salesan th the projed indude the output of the Sondu Miriu hydro plant, whid is financed outside of the project
2V       Investment and O&M costs include in addition to project costs the Sondu Miriu hydro plant and required transmission and distribution.  I
31      ,BenefltsvaluedatUScents14perkWh.          I             I                                                                             L



Annex 7.2
Page 2 of 3
KENYA
Energy Sector Reform and Power Development Project
Economic Analysis
Assumptions
A. Benefits
Incremental Electricity Sales The benefits from incremental electricity sales are defined as the difference
between the demand which the system can satisfy with the proposed investments and that it can satisfy
without the proposed investments. It is assumed that these benefits will increase as demand rises, until
2013 when they will reach a plateau at the maximum generation capability of the new generation facilities.
Thereafter, the benefits will remain constant through 2020, the remaining economic life of the diesel and
geothermal facilities. The analysis has taken account of the longer economic life of the hydro plant and the
transmission and distribution facilities through residual values. For the valuation of incremental sales in
GWh, the analysis used a rate of US 14 cents per kWh, which is the estimated average consumers'
willingness to pay for electricity.
Estimation of Consumer Surplus and Consumers' Willingness-to-Pay for Electricity The analysis
estimated the consumer's willingness-to-pay (WTP) for electricity using estimated demand functions for
different consumer categories. The demand functions are defined by two points: The "lower" end of the
demand functions is represented the price-quantity pair denoting the quantity of electricity consumed at
KPLC's marginal tariff rates for different consumers. The "upper" end of the demand functions is defined
as the upper end of the function representing consumers willingness to pay for higher valued uses of
electricity (such as lighting); this point is represented by the price-quantity pair of alternative energy
sources to KPLC provided electricity, in kWh equivalents. For households and small commercial
consumers the alternative is generally kerosene for lighting. Survey data on households' kerosene
consumption and fuel price data were used to establish the kWh consumption that would yield the
equivalent amount of lighting prior to the availability of electricity; and to convert the cost of kerosene
lighting to an equivalent cost per kWh. For industries the alternative is captive diesel generators and data
on equipment, maintenance and fuel costs were used to estimate the kWh equivalent costs. The average
willingness to pay by consumer category is calculated as the average of the costs associated with the lower
and upper ends of the estimated demand function. The detailed calculations in Annex 7.3 show that the
average WTP, in mid- 1995, ranged from US cents 13 per kWh to US cents 18 per kWh. As of October
1996, KPLC's marginal tariff rates vary from 2.5 to 10.5 US cents per kWh. KPLC's average tariff is US
cents 9.1 per kWh. This implies an average consumer surplus of about 4.9 US cents per kWh.
Fuel Cost Savings These savings accrue from the improved efficiency of the new diesel plants, and the
substitution of gas oil and kerosene for lower cost fuel oil, that will cut the average cost of fuel per kWh.
B. Economic Costs
General All costs are incremental as compared to the "without the project" case, in which none of the
investments would have been made. They are expressed in mid-1995 prices net of taxes and duties.
Investment costs include on average about 6 percent physical contingencies. The local currency
component, which is wages to skilled and semi-skilled labor and materials, is about 24 percent of total
investment cost. The analysis used a general conversion factor 0.9 used to convert the local costs from
market prices to economic prices.
Capital Costs of New Electricity Generating Units The unit cost for thermal generating facilities per kW
of installed capacity are as follows: Hydro: US$ 2,240; medium-speed diesel units: US$ 1,100; and
geothermal plants: $2,200-2,300.



Annex 7.2
Page 3 of 3
Fuel Costs The analysis uses border parity prices to define the economic cost of fuel used in power
generation. The forecast border parity prices are derived from the World Bank's forecast of crude oil
prices, as of August 1996, taking account of refining margins, freight, insurance, handling, and transport
to project site. The World Bank forecasts a declining trend in real crude oil prices.
Annual Operating and Maintenance Costs
Hydro plant:                  1.5% of investment cost Existing Geothermal plant:158 per kWh
New diesel plant fixed:       $20 per kW             New Geothermal plant:  $57 per kWh
New diesel plant variable:    $0.0105 per kWh        Existing steam plant fixed: $37-44 per kW
Existing steam plant variable:  $0.0038-0.0044/kWh    Existing gas turbine fixed: $17-25 per kW
Existing gas turbine variable:  $0.0081-0.0088/kWh
Transmission:                 2% of cumulative investment cost
Distribution:                 3.5% of cumulative investment cost
Incremental consumer cost (billing etc.):   $0.003 per kWh
C. Economic Life of Facilities
Hydro plants:                                        50 years
Low speed diesel generating units:                   25 years
Medium speed diesel generating units and gas turbines:  20 years
Geothermal wells and power plant:                    20 years
Transmission and distribution lines:                 35 years
D. Fuel Consumption of Generating Units
Kipevu stem plant (existing)                         320 liters per MWh (fuel oil)
Kipevu gas turbine (existing)                        370 liters per MWh (Jet fuel/kerosene)
Nairobi gas turbine (existing)                       400 liters per MWh (Jet fuel/kerosene)
Low speed diesel (new)                               220 liters per MWh (fuel oil)
Medium-speed diesels (new)                           230 liters per MWh (fuel oil)
Gas Turbine (new)                                    260 liters per MWh (fuel oil)
E. Other Assumptions
Discount Rate:                        12%
Average growth in electricity demand:  5.6 percent per year
Growth in GDP:                        5.5 percent per year
Growth in real prices of output:      Constant
Cost recovery:                        KPLC' s retail tariffs at US cents 9.1 per kWh, as of October
1996, are about 73% of estimated LRMC, and are adequate to
generate a self financing of 22 percent. Further increases to
cover full LRMC will be based on a Tariff Study to be
completed by November 1997.
Nature of benefits:                   Supply of forecast electricity demand, fuel cost savings,
environmental benefits from the use of more efficient diesel
plants, improved sector efficiency, building of private investor
confidence, improved institutional capabilities.
Main beneficiaries:                   Industry, commerce, and households



Ano 73
Ntge I of 1
KENYA
ENERGY SECTOR REFORM AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
PRELIMINARY
ESTIMATION OF CONSUMERS WILLINGNESS TO PAY FOR ELECTRICITY
Ksh       USS
TYPICAL RESIDENTIAL CONSUMER (about 250 kWb/month)
Kerosene usage for lighting (two kerosene lanps/consumer) 12 kWh/month
Monthly cost of kerosene used for lighting: about 4 literstlamp at KSh 17/1  136  2.47
Cost per kWh equivalent to two 40 Watt bulbs for S bous/day (12 kWho/mo  I1    0.20
Electricity use
1995 maginal unit rue KShJkkWh (incl. fixed charge)                    4       0.07
A       JfWHnugAszs go Pay                                              7      *.13
TYPICAL SMALL COMMERCIAL CONSUMER (about 250 kWljontb)
Kerosene usage for lighting (two kerose Ianmps/consumer) 12 kWh/month
Monthly cost of kerosene used for lighting: about 4 litershamp at KSh 17M  136  2.47
Cost per kWh equivalent to two 40 Watt bulbs for 5 hours per day (12 kW  I1    0.20
Electncity use
1995  rwgina twiff rate Ks/kWh                                          5      0.09
for snall camercia eaaautnpio
SMALL INDUSTRY (abut 1,200 kWLaiih)
*cdowwroVr: 4 wt 5 A ,swk. JRt, N5X
Capitol Cost at USSI 100lkW, auitized at ir%  15 yams               38       161.51
Annual O&M Cost 3%                                                   1485     27.00
Total cost of the above KlHkWh                                          7      0.12
48 wotk,  5 dqycel, 8 ours/ay. g0 % uundI
Fuel eost per kWh at 290g&Wh  d KIC 28 pw bltdiuael                     9      0.17
Tiul cost afqd nu  geowm,                                             16       0.29
1995 atnld  tif rate                                                    5      0.09
for lht i   d iania emonnptte
Avow wOma'umw*                                                      1Ut   All
LARGE INDUSTRIES, WATER PUMIG
Diuuigaaa'uim48malz 4dqMwse* I*&h     Nt6pAwfbcw
CApitd eos at USSI 1001kW, m ithizd at I2%, 15 yons                   3      161351
Annual O&M Cost 3%                                                   1435     27.00
Total eost perkWh of the above                                          4      0.03
Fud oost per kWh at 290gikWn ad KSh 23 per liltu a                      9      0.16
Total cost of dised guafmt  per kWh                                    13      0.24
6tfdbppWEhWA
1995 weigted mwr l tiff nae for 1  hidmp   a &  _      dmeW cam         4      0.07
(id dm-d dwp)
4Amwub                                                                U6  Q15
W9I7GHED A W4GE UTLLINGNW 0PA Y                                                   3EDVAALIS    7o   K13
Iw: Dadm d'        Pkame.muq,a.i4UJpt keftok
;__mid a. ZPLSCiI4N  U_.frw.e _-



Annex 7.4
Page 1 of 4
KENYA
Quantitative Risk Analysis
1.     The main risks of this Project relate to three factors: (i) the uncertainties associated with the
macroeconomic environment, which could affect consumer demand for electricity, and consequently,
output from the project facilities; (ii) possible delays in the commissioning of the generation facilities; and
(iii) the value of benefits. In addition, uncertainties related to the costs of equipment and installation could
also affect the project's net benefits, though not in the same extent as those associated with the demand
forecast or the value of benefits. The project is also subject to risks which cannot be hedged in project
design. These include risks associated with hydrology which will affect the output quantity from the
project facilities. They also include the impact of international petroleum prices.
2.     A quantitative risk analysis was carried out to asses the impact on the project's economic returns
of uncertainty in underlying assumptions and predictions. The primary risks affecting the project's
economic outcome and the probability distribution to be assigned to each of them were defined based on
the project team's estimates. The stochastic nature of the project implementation was subsequently
modeled using a commercially available risk analysis program. The expected rate of return and NPV -
with their probability distributions - were determined using a Monte Carlo process with a Latin Hybercube
sampling technique in the simulation of the model. The major project risks and the probability
distributions assigned to each of the risk variables are discussed below.
*      Electricity demandforecast. The electricity demand forecast has a major impact on the project's
economic viability. A triangular distribution with minimum, most likely and maximum values was
assigned to the average annual demand growth rates. The forecast prepared by KPLC and confirmed by
Acres International Ltd. was used as the most likely outcome. It predicts an average annual growth of
some 5.6 percent based on the expected GDP growth rate of 5.5 percent. The Bank's economic forecast
provides three development scenarios: the low growth scenario assumes an average annual GDP growth
rate of about 3.2 percent, the high scenario about 7 percent, while the average growth rate is estimated at
about 5.5 percent. To represent the uncertainty in the economic growth rates in the electricity demand
forecast, the GDP growth rates were translated into average demand growth rates using the GDP to
electricity demand elasticity. The observed average elasticity for the period 1988-1992 was about 2.
Given, however, that the tariffs have (and will) go up and tnat efficiency measures will be introduced, the
elasticity is assumed at I in this analysis in line with that used in the demand forecast. This gives the
minimum and maximum annual growth rates of 3.2 percent, and 7 percent respectively. The resulting
distribution is skewed towards the low side, that is, the probability for low demand growth exceeds the
probability for high growth.
*      Consumers' Willingness to Pay. The value assigned to consumers willingness to pay will
determine the value of the benefits. A triangular distribution was selected with the average value being the
estimated US$ 0.14 per kWh and the maximum and minimum values defined as US$0.16 and US$0.08,
respectively. The minimum value coincides with KPLC's current average tariff. The resulting distribution
is negatively skewed, i.e., the probability for low values is greater than the probability for high values.
*      Commissioning dates for project facilities. The commissioning of the generation facilities is
expected to follow the least-cost investment schedule, where the first facility, Kipevu 1, would be
commissioned in 1999, and the two final plants, Sondu Miriu and the Olkaria II in 2001. In case the
construction of some or all of the facilities is delayed, project benefits would decline and the economy
would have to bear an additional cost of not having electricity available. Since the Project includes both
publicly and privately fnanced facilities and they are at different levels of preparedness, it is expected that
the probability of delay varies from plant to plant. For the publicly financed projects, bidding documents
have already been prepared so the bidding process could start as soon as the project becomes effective. In
this case, the main cause of delay in commissioning would be delays in the construction process. However,



Annex 7.4
Page 2 of 4
KPC's track record in project implementation is fairly good, so the risk of delay in Kipevu I and Olkaria II
are considered relatively low. For Sondu Miriu, the risk is higher because of the civil works involved.
With respect to Gitaru, the risk of delay is related to the ability of KPC to generate the required financing
internally. For the privately financed facilities, bidding document were issued in July 1996, however, there
is the possibility that the selection process and negotiations could drag. An additional cause of delays
could be the lapse in implementing tariff increases, resulting in insufficient counterpart funding. The
following probabilities were assigned for delays in the six generation facilities:
Kipevu 1:             one year delay            10 %
Kipevu II (IPP):      one year delay            80 %
two year delay           70 %
three year delay         50 %
Olkaria II:           one year delay            20 %
Olkaria III (IPP):    one year delay            80%
two year delay           70%
three year delay         50%
Sondu Miriu           one year delay            40%
Gitaru 3rd unit:      one year delay            50%
*      Hydrology. The annual hydrology determines the output from the hydroelectric plants. As the
project would finance both hydro and thermal plants, dry hydrological conditions would mean lower output
from Sondu Miriu and Gitaru and increased use of thermal generation resulting in higher generation cost.
Wet hydrological conditions would mean less need for the thermal plants and maximum output Sondu
Miriu and Gitaru. A triangular distribution representing minimum, most likely and maximum values was
assigned to the annual hydro output based on results from system simulations.
*      Project investment cosL The capital equipment of the project comprise, to a large extent, standard
equipment and the required civil works are not excessive indicating a moderate risk of cost variations. The
civil works include tunneling work for Sondu Miriu, erection of power houses for the Geothermal plants,
installation of the modular geothermal plants, steam gathering and transmission systems, and the erection
of a new power house for the Kipevu plants, and installation of the Kipevu and Gitaru units. Poor
procurement and supervision performance by the implementing agencies or certain Government actions
could, however, cause cost increases. Cost savings are also possible owing to favorable conditions and
strict cost-control from the side of the private investors. To represent the risk associated with the cost
estimates, the analysis assigned a triangular distribution to this variable with the minimum and maximum
values established at, minus 25 percent and plus 25 percent respectively of the estimated value, i.e., total
investment costs would vary in the range of US$695 - US$1,160 million
*      Petroleum products prices. The analysis assigned a triangular distribution to the petroleum price
forecast. The likeliest annual prices were derived from the Bank's crude oil price forecast of August 1996,
which predicts a decrease in real crude oil prices: from about US$ 18 per barrel in 1996 to US$ 15 per
barrel in 2005 (in 1995 prices). The minimum and maximum values were established on either side of the
likeliest values as plus or minus 1.96 times the standard deviations provided in the Bank's forecast. The
international prices were adjusted for border parity prices adding the economic cost of transportation and
handling to the FOB prices. Based on historical data, oil prices do not to vary fully randomly from one
year to another, rather, they tend to be sticky, except for major events such as the Gulf War that caused a
temporary, steep increase. A rank-order correlation coefficient of 0.8 reflects the positive correlation
between the annual prices.



Annex 7.4
Page 3 of 4
Results
3.          Figure 1. below shows the probability distribution for the expected ERR and indicates a 50 %
probability for an ERR of 15.5 percent or more. The expected ERR from the risk analysis is less than that
from the deterministic evaluation because the probability distribution for the main variables affecting
project benefits - electricity demand forecast and willingness to pay - are negatively skewed.
Figure 1. Probability Distribution for ERR
0.12  -
0.10               ---                                              -      -
0  .0 8            -     -  - - - - - - - - --                              - - - - - - -
0 .0 6          -      - - -   - - - - - --                                      - - - - - - -
0
rI   0 .0 4  -- - - - - -- - - - --                                                 - - -   - - - -
a.
0.02    - - -    --                                                               ----o
0.00   I.-                                   ER             CD       D                C
ER(%)
4.          Figure 2. below, displays the project's expected NPV (at 12%) and shows that the probability of a
positive NPV is about 80%. There is, therefore, a 20% probability that the project would have a negative
NPV. Lower than expected electricity sales, significant delay in the commissioning of the facilities and
lower than expected willingness to pay would contribute to the negative NPV.
Figure 2. Cumulative Probability for NPV ((@12%)
1.0                                                                                      
1 0 
0 .9  - -- --     -  - -- - - -   ----- -    ---- -     - -- -   - - - - - - - - - - ---  - - ..   
><  0. 7    - -  -   --  ---  --  -- - - - - - - - - - ---  - - - - - ---  ------------------ .-.-
3 0.7
0 .4                                                                    - - -- - - - - -
v   .    - - - - -   - - --   --   - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -  -   - - ---  -   --   - --- - - - - --     -  - 
> 0 .3   -V ---- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -      - - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - - -
0
0 .1                                  - -    -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
0.0
co       D  CD          0       N        CD      0       0           C   SD      0)
CD  0)          -        ?      U~) C   CI)                      O 0 UD  CD      CO
N               --                                       C')    CV)       ~
US$ million



Annex 7.4
Page 4 of 4
Risk Management
5.     The risk analysis indicated that the probability of a negative NPV is not significant. However,
project design and implementation were formulated to mitigate the risks leading to unfavorable outcomes.
With respect to deteriorating economic performance which could lead to lower than forecast demand for
electricity - the Bank's continued broad policy dialogue on the macroeconomic reform program, will help
focusing the Government's macroeconomic reforms on maintaining stability. This includes the tightening
of fiscal policies to attract inflows of external assistance to spur economic activity.
6.     The risk associated with delays in the commissioning of facilities has been reduced for the
publicly financed projects by preparing the bidding documents well in advance, so that the bidding process
can start as soon as the project becomes effective. Previous experience suggests that KPC is fairly good in
implementing publicly financed generation projects. Nevertheless, given the large size of the Project, the
Project will provide consultant and advisory services for project implementation, engineering and financial
management to complement KPC's capacity. For the privately financed, IPP, projects, the risk of delays
has been partially reduced, through financing under the Project Preparation Facility for consultant services
for the preparation of the bidding documents, which is currently ongoing. The ultimate success will
depend on how attractive Kenya's energy sector is for private investors. The agreed changes in the legal
and regulatory framework should contribute to increasing investor confidence. Another risk is delay in
mobilizing the corresponding local financing requirements, which could lead to implementation delays.
The agreement on annual reviews of the investment program and related financing plans, as well as the
requirement to meet at least 30% of investment needs is designed to minimize this risk. Regarding the
potential lack of counterpart funding as a result of delays in implementing tariff adjustments, the agreement
on adequate tariff adjustments based on a tariff study, is designed to mitigate lapses. The tariff policy will
also be monitored in the context of IDA's continued macroeconomic dialogue.
7.     The capital equipment of the project comprise mainly of standard equipment and the civil works
are not significant, indicating a moderate risk of cost increases. These risks are counterbalanced by
including adequate contingencies in the cost estimates.



KENYA                                                                       Annex 7.5
Enery Sector Reform and Power Development Project                                               Page 1 of 1
Fiscal I Government Budget Impact Analysis
1997F 19981 1999 2000 2001r 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2017 2018 2019 2020
Budget Revenue USS million                            _              i
IbA credit                                               ;3.5  35.0; 46.7  26.8  10.6  1.41  1.0,
EIB loan                                                    4.31 16.1  18.6  8.2  1.5    .
KfVloan                                                     2.0  9.4  8.4  1.1                                                           - .
Interest & repayment on IDA onlend credit          I                                    13.01 13.1  13.2  13.2  13.2  13.2  13.2  13.2  13.2  13.21 13.2  13.2  13.2
Interest & repayment on EIB onlend loan                                2.8  4.5  5.2  5.3  5.3  5.3  5.3  5.3  5.3  5.3  5.3  5.3  5.3  5.3  5.3   5.3
Interest & repayment on KfW onlend loan                                                  2.11  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1   2.1  2.1  2.1  2.11  2.1  2.1
Reduced debt service on behalf of KPLC & KPC
VAT on incremental electricity sales                      -.   0.0  0.0 oo9   1.1  1.5  1.9  2.3  2.9  2.9  2.9  2.9  2.9  2.9  2.80  2.81  2.8:  2.8
Incremental corporate tax revenue                           0.01  0.0  0.0  0.84  1.0  1.4  1.8  2.   21   2.7  2.7 2.7           2.7,  2.7  2.61  2.   2.6i   2.6
Incremental intake from petroleum taxes                    0o.0    o0  o 0.0  ' 0.  5.2  -4.1   1.1  5.5  13.2  24.6  24.65  24.6  32.3  32.31 32.3  32.3  32.3
Total                                                       9.8  6051 76.6  42.2  19.4  30.0  21.2  26.1  31.6  W4  50.7         50.  58.5  58.4  58.3  58.31 58.3
Budget Expenditure USS million                                       I     I   - I j
IDA credit onlending                                    I  1.5  33.0  44.7  24.8  8.6  1.4'  1.01  0.0  0.0                                         I
EIB loan onlending                                          4.3  16.1  18.6  8.2  1.5  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0                         I                   1
KfW loan onlending                                          2.0   9.4  8.4  1.1  0.0  0.0  o.0o  0.0  0.0
IDA credit fee                                              0 |   0.3,  0.61  0.81  0.9  0.9  0.9  0.9  0.9   09   0.9  0.9  0.9o  0.9  0.9i  0.9,  0.9o  0.9
Repayment of IDA credit                                 [                    3    3.2   3              t              2.51  2.5  2.51  2;53  53.3:  530   5.01  5.0
Repayment of EIB loan principal & interest                             24   3                  3.3  3.3  3.3   3.3   33   33. 3 3   33 33   33i  3.31  3.3
Repayment of KfW loan principal & interest                                            I                               1.3 1.3  1.3,  1.3, I3   1.34  1.3  1.3
Total                                                      7.9  58.85 74.8  37.9  14.2  5.6  5.2  4.2  4.2   4.2  8.0  8.0  8.05  8.0  10.5: 10.5' 10.51 10.5
Annual Net Impact on Government Budget USS million          2.0|  1.7  1.8  4.3  5.2  24.4  16.0i 21.9  27.4  35.2  42.7  42.81 42.7  50.51 47.9  47.9! 47.8' 47.8
Present discounted value of revenue @ 12%:         327 US$ million                       '     1                                   1 j
Presentdiscountedvalueofexpenses@12%:              167 US$milion                   j                            ,    I         I |                       i
NPV of fiscal revenue @12%                         1611 US$ million
0.
'-"I-n



Annex 7.6
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
ENERGY SECTOR REFORM AND POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Objectives and Key Perfonnance Indicators
OBJECTIVES  INPUTS                       OUTPUTS                    RISKS AND              OUTCOMES AND
(Resources provided     (Goods and Services        CRITICAL               IMPACTS
for project activities)    produced by the Project)    ASSUMPTIONS        (of project activities)
(The outcome is
depended on... )
Restructure the   *IDA Credit (US$3.0    * study to restructure the  *delays in the transfer   *KPC Board and MD
power subsector  million)                power sub-sector into two  of assets, allocation of   appointed by
to increase                              separate companies; one for   staffing and financial    December 1996
efficiency and    Credit will finance    generation and another     restructuring           *KPC personnel task
attract private    phase I of a power sub-   transmission & distribution                   force appointed by
sector          sector restructuring     * performance contracts                           February 1997
participation   study, consultants to    between GoK and the two                            *Staff transferred to
assist GoK in power     companies (KPLC & KPC)                            KPC by May 1997
restructuring, in       * power purchase agreement                         *TRDC to voluntarily
securing private sector    between KPC and KPLC                           wind up by March
investment and in       * non-core activities                              1997
developing performance   contracted out to the private                    *Transfer of assets
contracts               sector                                            between the
* private investors invited to                    companies by October
Phase 11 of the power   generate electricity                               1997
sub-sector restructuring                                                  *KPLC management
study was financed                                                        agreements terminated
under IDA credit 2440-                                                    by October 1997
KE.                                                                       *Performance
contracts between
GoK and KPLC and
GoK and KPC signed
by June 1997
*Power purchase
agreements between
KPLC & KPC signed
by June 1997
*KPC's self-financing
ratio 20% in
FY1997/1998 and
FY1998/99, and 25%
thereafter
* KPLC's self
financing ratio 25% in
FY1997/19998 and
1998/1999, and 30%
thereafter.
*KPC's and KPLC's
debt service coverage
ratios at least 1.5 times
starting in FYI 997/98
*customer/staff ratio
of 60 for KPLC
*accounts receivable
of no more than 60
days sales
* KPLC has identified
and contracted out
additional non-core
services to the private
sector by FY1999.
*increased private
sector participation in
the subsector's core



Annex 7.6
Page 2 of 4
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
ENERGY SECTOR REFORM AND POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Objectives and Key Perfornance Indicators
activities
Create a legal    *IDA Credit           * legal and regulatory study   *delays in        *ERB established by
and regulatory   (US$250,00)            to recommend amendments   Parliamentary          December 1997
framework to                           to the Electric Power Act to   approval of the draft    *Regulators appointed
commercialize    Credit fill finance a  create an autonomous      Amendments to the      by December 1997
sector          legal and regulatory    Electricity Regulatory Board  Electric Power Act  * electricity tariffs
operations and   framework Study and    (ERB)                                            based on LRMC and
increase private  technical assistance for   * technical assistance for  *adequacy of staffing   cover financial costs of
sector          the ERB.                ERB                       of KPC and KPLC        supply
participation                           * Further tariff adjustments   * the effectiveness of   *all power subsector
A tariff update Study  will be based on the results  the ERB            activities
will be financed under    of the tariff update Study to                 commercially
IDA Cr. 2440-KE.       be completed by April 1996.                      operated
Meet forecast    *IDA Credit (US$82.4    * installation of following  * construction delays    *Interconnected
electricity     million)                generation capacities:     * private sector      system electricity sales
demand at least  *OECF loan (US$82.8                              interest               will increase from
cost            million)                * 150 MW at Kipevu in      * delays in obtaining    3,402 GWh in FY1996
*EIB loan (US$36.6     FY1999/00                  private sector funding   to 4,500 GWh in
million)               * 128 MW at Olkaria in     * adequacy of internal  FY2002
*KfW loan (US$20.9     FY2001/02                  resources for funding    * Number of new
million)               *72.5 MW at Gitaru in      of the 72.5 MW at     connections will
*Private Sector        FY2000/01                  Gitaru, part of the cost  increase annually from
(US$262.5 million)                                of the other plants and   406,300 in FY1996 to
*KPC intemal resources  *reinforcement and        for the upgrading of  540,000 in FY2002
(US$93.9 million)      upgrading of distribution  the distribution system   * private sector owned
*KPLC internal         lines and installation of  * project cost        generation will
resources (US$29.9     transformers and substations  overruns/savings   increase by 135 MW
million)                                          * macroeconomic       by 2002
* two power plants offered    conditions will affect
Funds will be used to    to the private sector    electricity demand
procure equipment,                                * hydro plant output
works, consultants and                            will depend, inter alia,
technical assistance for                          on hydrological
increasing KPC's and                              conditions
KPLC's implementation                             * adequate plant
capacity                                          maintenance measured
as the average annual
IDA, EIB and KfW                                  capacity availability in
funds will help to                                %. KPC's target
cofinance construction                            availabilities in
of Olkaria II Power                               FY2002: hydro 85%;
Plant. Private sector                             geothermal 90%;
equity and loans will                             Kipevu I 80%.
finance construction of                           * international
Olkaria III and Kipevu                            petroleum prices
11 Power Plants. KPC
and KPLC internal
resources will finance
part of the cost of new
power plants and
upgrading of the
distribution systems
Improve the     IDA Credit (US$11.7     * upgrading/installation of   * timeliness of    * Network losses of
efficiency of   million)                feeders, capacitors and   implementation         14.5% or less of net
electricity                             substations                * effort by KPLC staff  generation by FY2002
supply and use   Funds will be used to  * electricity demand       * cost overruns/savins   *KPLC actively



Annex 7.6
Page 3 of 4
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
ENERGY SECTOR REFORM AND POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Objectives and Key Performance Indicators
procure equipment,     management program                               offering its customers
works, studies,        * study on guidelines on                         efficiency and demand
consultants, training and  energy efficiency standards                  management advice
technical assistance.  for equipment and labeling                       and service by 1998
program                                          *at least 2 energy
* study on financing                            efficiency/demand
mechanisms for energy                           management measures
efficiency measures                             implemented by 1999
* expand KPLC's training                        *KPLC select
program in demand                                personnel trained in
management and energy                            the design and
efficiency                                       implementation of
* action planning                               demand management
workshops                                        programs by 1998
* demonstration programs                         *appliance codes and
on efficient equipment and                       labeling study
lighting                                        completed by FY1998
* customer
satisfaction measured
through annual KPLC
customer surveys.
Deregulate      *IDA Credit             * petroleum market and     *may take long to     * petroleum prices and
petroleum       (USS344,000)            pricing study             develop adequate      importation liberalized
markets                                 * study to recommend      monitoring capacity    in November 1994
Credit will finance    adequate LPG cylinder                            * market-determined
studies, technical     standards to promote                             retail prices for
assistance and training    competition                                  petroleum products
for deregulation       * adequately trained peronel                     maintained
implementation.        in the monitoring cell in the                    * a monitoring cell at
Ministry of Energy                              the MOE established
by FY1996
* maintenance of
trained personnel in
the monitoring cell
* avoidance of anti-
competitive behavior
* maintenance of
adequate supplies by
oil companies
Develop         *IDA Credit (US$19      *confirmation of adequate    *adequacy of the    *.... wells drilled by
indigenous      million)               geothermal resources for a    geothermal resource  FY2002.
energy                                  fourth power plant in the  base                  * private sector invited
resources       *EIB loan (US$12        Olkaria area              * private sector      to develop resources
million)               *feasibility study and     interest              and construct and
detailed designs for the  * implementation      operate power plants
*KPC internal resources  plant                    delays                by FY1998.
(US$17 million)        *confirmation of adequate    * possible cost
The funds will finance    resources for subsequent  overruns/savings
equipment, works, pre-   power plant (s) in the
feasibility and feasibility  Olkaria Domes/ Suswa and
studies, drilling of   Longonot areas
geothermal wells, a    *prefeasibility and
Panel of Experts,      advanced feasibility studies
training and technical
assistance for capacity
building.



Annex 7.6
Page 4 of 4
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
ENERGY SECTOR REFORM AND POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Objectives and Key Performance Indicators
Develop a       *IDA Credit             * survey of energy end-use    * delays in         * strategy for
strategy for    (US$258,000)            * energy supply and        implementation         household and
household and                           marketing survey            * delays in GoK       renewable energy
rural energy    The funds will finance    * policy, institutions and  approval of strategy  agreed by the GoK by
development     studies, equipment,     pricing study               * effort of the local  FY1999
and promote     training and technical  * beter trained local      professionals.         * local analytical
renewable       assistance for capacity    professionals                                  capacity developed
energy.         building.               * study on guidelines for                         * solar PV information
solar PV standards                               campaign initiated by
* dissemination of                               1998
information about solar PV                       * taxes on solar PV
systems.                                         equipment at level
with other generation
eqipment starting in
._____________________     __________________     FY 1997.
Victoria Fofanah
M:\2EIEXCH\JJMAWENI\ANNEXES\ANX7-6NW.DOC
December 3, 1996 8:58 AM






MAP SECTION






IBRD 28165
K E N YA                                                                                       40
FACILITIES PROPOSED UNDER THE PROJECT             EXISTING FACILITIES
LlENERGY SECTOR OLL IV            AREFORl M1 AND                    0         GEOTHERMAL POWER STATION                   t    OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL FIELD
POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT    A                                                 DIESEL POWER STATIONS                              HYDRO POWER STATIONS
PO W ER   DEVELOPMENT   PROJECT                         ~ ~~~~~OTHER PROPOSED FACILITIES:            A,       DIESEL POWER STATIONS
POW ER   SYSTEM                                                220 kVTRANSMISSIONLINES                   *       STEAM POWER STATION
-7                                         -          132 kV TRANSMISSION LINES                         KPLC DISTRIBUTION AREAS
S  U  D  A  N          -        7                                                POSSIBLE SITES OF HYDRO                 -           220 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
,1 ,    lPOWER STATIONS                                                                             132 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
/    -*,,,_ X  - DENSELY POPULATED AREAS                         66 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                            33 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
E T H I O P I A    -                                               /4
Lake                                                                                                 /
Tur kcaa/
L.dw !       <   ,                        ''                                                                  /
kX         ;.               X       oEl Molo Camp
oMarsabit
UGANDA                  ts   JTurIweI                                                                                 A
sw                       ,/               J    /                                                                                     ,
Kitci                                                                                      0y ,'Hoboswemn
Tororo_                                   
<1r~;~Eldoret                  > E           Soret
McsnO,               ',                  0   h                    lNyaururuo A  K                                                 j
3>s S Or 0;Aoe /k t~~~Oeru=--j
.~  /"'      unto                                  ttia              SKi0arGrcmd Falls                          Garissa0
.2                                                     NY By *         E          iomiere                     A
_~ ,Q, I                                        G/ Nalvg;                 Kiu      Kisdaruma
.E1,T                       RI OLKRKburu 
N9ortgSn0 u       ROB    \ Ktior
afs a A                                     N..oHol\
SUDAN                                 . 
Zz    ETHIOPIA     S
S                 /  /G, NDA '                                              Tsavo&.                                                INDIAN
r <>0;]   7                      9          j                 \\           ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SMalind,
KENYA                                                                                                                           OCEAN
RtJtLtUNDI    2          I N D I A N                                                                                        E \ Th,s moJp was produced by the
\   URUND ANI A  It        N     D    I A    N  -4                 'Nipeve                                                    Mop  Desigt  Unit  of The  Wo dld  B-k.
TANZANIA                                       T C E  A   N   Z  A   N   I A                        Kwe10  o        a    The hooodaHes colors deomi-at,ots
-STA     *                                    i                     *               I              matp do p ot imtplyt i o she port of The
I AMBlA i |  -.--' g    COhMOROS                                                          N -         7' ,             World Bonk Group, ny judg-y et on the
./:~~zAtutIA,L~~~i;~~  Ato~~E,oae/<~~~~  0  25    50  75    100  ~ ~ ~  ~                       lego) status ofeg   any terflam ,te,rN or any-
. LA |    ,&tW'    f    ^ s  4      0     25    50      75    100 \I  I                                              endorsement or a5cce 7o5f  such
^  >  (,iMoIJE  ( M6ADAGASnIR            MILES                                                         40  boundortes
OCTOBER 1996



I






IMAGING
Report No.:          16001   KE
Type:      SAR



