Report No. PIC1488
Project Name                    Kenya-Energy Sector Investment Project (@#)
Region                          Africa
Sector                          Electric Power & Other Energy Adjustment
Project ID                      KEPA1344
Implementing Agencies          Ministry of Energy
P.O. Box 30582
Nairobi, Kenya
Contact: Permanent Secretary
Tel: 4-2-339727
Fax: 4-2-228314
Kenya Power and Lighting Co. (KPLC)
P.O. Box 30177
Nairobi, Kenya
Contact: Managing Director
Tel: 4-2-332430
Fax: 4-2-337351
Kenya Power Company (KPC)
P.O. Box
Nairobi, Kenya
Contact: Managing Director (KPLC)
Tel: 4-2-332430
Fax: 4-2-337351
Kenya Pipeline Company (KPL)
P.O. Box 73442
Nairobi, Kenya
Contact: Managing Director
Tel: 4-2-335666
Fax: 4-2-331683
National Oil Corporation of Kenya
P.O. Box 58567
Nairobi, Kenya
Contact: Managing Director
Tel: 4-2-340030
Fax: 4-2-340039
Date PID Prepared               November 21, 1994
Project Appraisal Date         November 21, 1994
Projected Board Date           March 11, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.   Kenya is a low income country with a per capita income of about
US$310 in 1992 and a population of million. Its economy relies on
agriculture and the service sector, including tourism. Most of the
population depends on biomass for household energy needs, although the
consumption of electricity and petroleum products is higher than the



average for Sub-Saharan African countries. Electricity supply is based
on hydropower while crude oil and petroleum products are imported. Lack
of generating capability will constrain economic growth until new power
plants are commissioned.
2.   Studies were commissioned on least-cost generation expansion
planning; electricity tariffs; petroleum pricing, procurement, and
marketing; and power sub-sector organization. These studies provided
the basis for the World Bank's policy dialogue which cuinated in an
agreement with the Government of Kenya (GOK) on a broad energy sector
reform strategy in November 1993, in the context of the Policy Framework
Paper covering FY1994-96. These studies also provided the basis for
further dialogue on the details of the policy reform during the
preparation of this project.
Project Objectives
3.   The project's objectives are to assist GOK in implementing policy
and institutional reforms to: (i) reform the organization of the power
sub-sector to enable operating entities to function efficiently and on
a commercially sustainable basis; (ii) create a legal and regulatory
environment necessary for private sector participation in electricity
supply; (iii) introduce private sector participation in the power sub-
sector; (iv) adopt economic pricing for both electricity and petroleum
products and implement demand and supply-side efficiency improvement
measures; (v) support a least-cost and environmentally sound investment
program to meet power demand; (vi) develop indigenous oil and geothermal
resources; and (vii) improve efficiency in petroleum products supply and
distribution.
Project Description
4.   The proposed project would include six components: (i) Sector
Restructuring and Reform comprising consultancy services to assist GOK
in restructuring the power sub-sector, instituting a legal and
regulatory framework, and promoting private sector participation; (ii)
Institutional Support for capacity building and feasibility studies;
(iii) Efficiency Improvement to procure and install loss reduction
equipment, time-of use electricity meters, to establish standards and
codes for efficient equipment, programs for promoting efficient lighting
and air conditioners, and other demand-side-management and conservation
measures; (iv) Power Expansion and Rehabilitation at least-cost,
including two 75MW power plants in Mombasa, two 32MW power plants at
Olkaria, a 6OMW Hydropower plant on the Sondu River; Mombasa-Nairobi and
Nairobi-Kiambere 220 kV transmission lines, rehabilitation of the
Nairobi and Coastal area distribution systems, and expansion of other
distribution facilities; (v) Resource Development to finance data
collection for promoting oil exploration, equipment for data storage and
analysis, training of NOCK staff, development of geothermal resources
and associated infrastructure; and (vi) Petroleum Products Supply to
finance repair of the Mombasa-Nairobi pipeline, maintenance workshops,
fire-fighting equipment, a Petroleum Products Quality Testing
Laboratory, and LPG import and other facilities.
Project Cost and Financing
-2-



5.   The total cost of the project is estimated at US$1 billion
equivalent, of which 70- would be foreign costs.   The implementing
agencies would contribute about W of total project cost from internal
cash generation. Private investors are expected to finance two power
plants. IDA financing of the project is expected to be some US$100
million. OECF, CDC, and EIB are considering cofinancing for the
project.
Project Implementation
6.   The GOK would have overall project implementation responsibility
through the Ministry of Energy (MOE), Kenya Power & Lighting Company
Ltd.   (KPLC), Kenya Power Company Ltd.   (KPC), Kenya Pipeline Company
(KPL) and National Oil Corporation of Kenya (NOCK). Consultants will
assist the implementing agencies. MOE will prepare a Project
Implementation Plan describing the main features of the project,
implementation arrangements, implementation plan, and a monitoring and
evaluation plan.
Project Sustainability
7.   The Project supports reforms to create and sustain an efficient
energy sector, including: (i) power sector reorganization and
restructuring to improve operating and financial performance; (ii) legal
and regulatory reforms for the power sub-sector to separate the
commercial activities from the policy and regulatory aspects and
facilitate private sector entry; (iii) performance contracts for sector
parastatals and management contracts for publicly-owned thermal
generation facilities; (iv) economic pricing for electricity and
petroleum products; and (v) pricing and non-pricing demand-side measures
to manage consumption.
Poverty Category
8.   Not applicable
Lessons Learned From Previous IDA Involvement
9.   The main findings of the project completion reports for previous
IDA projects - seven power projects, three reforestation, and three
petroleum projects - were: (i) the projects' physical objectives and the
benefits of international competitive bidding were generally achieved;
(ii) a sector approach was needed since, the institutional and financial
components were not achievable in the context of project operations and
the related covenants were difficult to enforce; (iii) resettlement
issues of a hydro project were not addressed at appraisal; and (iv) the
breadth of expertise needed to appraise and supervise complex projects
should have been commensurate with the complexity of the projects.
These findings have been fully taken into account in the design and
preparation of the proposed project.
Environmental Aspects
10. The project has been classified as Category A. Environmental
Assessment (EA) was carried out for each of the main project components.
-3 -



The environmental mitigation plans would be monitored by KPC's
Environment Unit for the power sub-sector and by KPL for the oil
pipeline. KPC and KPL staff would be trained in environmental analysis
and impact monitoring.
11. The geothermal power plant at the NE Olkaria site, which is rich
with wildlife and serves as a grazing area/migration route for Maasai
pastoralists, will have fencing around the wells and separators to allow
wildlife and livestock continued access to most of the project area.
The mitigation plan also includes the re-injection of the condensates as
they would be harmful to livestock and wildlife. The EA concluded that
increased water extraction from Lake Naivasha for the new plant will not
pose serious threat to the water level of the lake. The Kipevu diesel
unit will be designed to meet western air emission standards and liquid
wastes will be treated on site. A new waste water treatment plant is
expected to provide for the facility±s limited water requirements. The
Sondu Miriu hydropower plant will have limited environmental effects,
mainly the diversion of water from the Sondu River. A detailed
resettlement plan, formulated with participation of the affected
families, indicated that 145 households will be affected by the access
road, reservoir and discharge canal. About 24 households will require
relocation.
Project Benefits
12. The project's main benefit is the development of an efficient and
viable energy sector which is essential to support economic growth. The
liberalization of petroleum products supply, pricing and marketing would
create competition leading to lower prices for consumers. An improved
policy and regulatory environment would help the power sub-sector to
improve financial performance and create an enabling environment for
private investment and management of power plants. The institutional
support component would help strengthen institutional capacity. The
project would also help to improve access to electricity by supporting
policy changes encouraging the use of photovoltaic systems. It would
also promote the implementation of sound strategies for providing
adequate and affordable energy to poor rural and urban households.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 21, 1997
- 4 -



