s se, s s                J., a e1 t t  J                 iY.
1g ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,;                            -. \    9
_ .   u
Ke'nya
Enegy  ector
iriestnntPreTt4 >
EA :Category A
Environmental
Assessment
1 of 3
*  January 1995
Report E0064
* This, report has been ,preparqed' byteFrxwr or its Consultant
.  ,  '  -  ,   '  '  '   .   '  '-
.   ,   .:   -  .   ,   .   .   ,:   ..    , .   .   ,   .-~~~~~I



KENYA
ENVERONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
NORTH EAST OLKARIA
POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Environmental Assessment and this EA Summary have been prepared by the
borrower and have not been evaluated or endorsed by the Bank and are subject to review
and possible change during project processing.



The Kenya Power Company Limited
Printed November 1993
Environmental
Assessment
Executive Summary
North East Olkaria
Power Development Project
SINCLAIR KNIGHT
CCOSULTING ENG:;EER5
in 8ssociatson wa.li
c.D,, r;:.1 Uri. 
RPS In:ernational L:d. Nairztb
Sincla:f K-,s-- P, Pa,-- P, v L-,
I Chandos Street
St Leanards NSW
Australia
Telephone: (51 21 435 7222
Facsimile: (61 21 438 479g



Contents
Page
1.  INTRODUCTION                                               1
2.   LOCAL SETTING AND HISTORY OF THE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT      1
3.   NEED FOR THE PROJECT                                      2
4.   CONDUCT OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND REGULATORY
AND LEGAL REQUIREMENTS AFFECTING GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT    2
5.   DESCRIPTION OF THE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                   3
6.   EXISTING ENVIRONMENT                                     5
7.   ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT                                11
8.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                         19
Figures
After Page
2-1 PROJECT LOCATION - REGIONAL SETTING
2-2  PROJECT LOCATION - LOCAL PHYSICAL SETTING                2
5-1  CONCEPTUAL LAYOUT OF STEAMFIELD DEVELOPMENT              3



Executive Summary
1.0 INTRODUCTION
This Environmental Assessment (EA) has been prepared for the Kenya Power Company
(KPC) by Sinclair Knight and Partners Pty Ltd in association with ESA Pty Ltd (Sydney)
and RPS International (Nairobi). The report presents the results of an EA for a 64 MWe
geothermal power station. comprising two 32 MWe units, that KPC wishes to develop
with World Bank support. The essential components of the power station project are
set out in a feasibility study prepared by :wbank Preece Limited.
2.0 LOCATION AND LOCAL SETTING
This section presents background information on the North East Olkaria Project.
Included is a description of the project in a national and regional setting, a brief review
of the history of the project and a review of the regional and local geology.
'Figu're 2.1 shows the project area in a regional setting and Figure 2.2 shows the local
physical environment.
The Olkaria geothermal resource is located on the southern side of Lake Naivasha. The
resource presently supports an existing 45 MWe power station. which commenced
construction in 1980. The presence of the existing power station has consequences
for cumulative effects. particularly for air pollution and socio-economics. An important
factor in the environmental studies has been the existence of the Hell's Gate National
Park. which was established on 2 February 1984. several years after the present East
Olkaria power station was commissioned. The park encloses both the existing power
station and the site for the proposed power station and much of the geothermal
resource.
Another important factor in the environmental studies is the Question of 'Lake Naivasha.
the southern shoreline of which is located approximately five k.lomertes from the site :
the proposed power station. The lake with the geothermal resource are arguabiv tne
two most important physical resources in the area. KPC ar present makes use of lake
water for make-up cooling water for the existing Dower station. for  dornestic
purposes and for exploration and development drilling. KPC does not need to rely or
the lake for the operation of the power station, nor for the exploration prograrn
However, the use of lake water is presently the most economical method of providing
water for the existing power station and for the expansion programs. Thus KPC is a
user of lake water (see further discussion on lake water usage in Section 6. of the EA)
The Olkaria geothermal field has been under investigation for approximately Thirti;
years. The geothermal field is associated with the Olkaria Volcanic Centre. Fromc
surface features it is inferred that the field occupies an approximately circular area cf
50 to 80 km2. The northeast sector. which is the resource that would be exploited by
the North East Olkaria Power Station. occupies an area of approximately 12 km2.
within which a production field occupying 5 km2 would be developed. A further 3 to ^



km2 could be added to the production area following further study. Over the 30 year
life of the power station there will be approximately 55 wells spaced approximately
325 m apart, giving an average density of approximately eleven wells per square
kilometre, each producing on average 3.25 MWe initially. For a 64 MWe power station
approximately twenty wells will be required. In practice approximately 14 wells will be
operated in each sector.  During the 30 year life, it is expected that 7 to 10
replacement wells will be required in each sector.
3.0 NEED FOR THE PROJECT
The feasibility study prepared by Ewbank Preece Limited forecasts the peak demand
and annual power requirements to 2006 using the Acres International National Power
Development Plan prepared in 1985. The Acres Plan forecasts have been updated by
commencing the base year using- actual figures for peak demand and electrical energy
consumption for 1987.
If no new generating capacity is developed, the feasibility study analysis identifies a
capacity shortfall in the early 1990s, of 33 GWh in 1992/93 assuming average rainfall
in the hydro-electric power generating areas. The shortfall is estimated to increase to
216 GWh in 1994195. This indicates an urgent requirement for additional generating
capacity.
Kenya has a number of geothermal areas. which have. been identified as a result of joint
Kenyan Government and United Nations Development Program  IUNDP) scientific
-surveys. The major prospects are at Olkaria. Eburru and Bogoria. At present the North
East Olkaria field is the most advanced in terms of resource definition. Drilling and well
testing in the North East Olkaria field (north of the existing 45 MWe power station)
have demonstrated the existence of a steamfield capable of supporting a power station
of more than 60 MWe generating capacity for a period of at least 30 years. None of
the other geothermal prospects have been drilled and tested to the same extent as the
North East Olkaria prospect. A 64 MWe power station at North East Olkaria at 100%
load and 100% availability could theoretically supply 560 GWh over a year.
Alternatives
Given the present position on the urgent requirement for additional generation capacity.
and accepting that the requirement for power should be met. the only practical
alternative is a thermal station. Geothermal power Is significantly cheaper rhan either
coal-fired or fuel-oil-fired stations and does not involve importation of the source of
energy. Thus geothermal power is the preferred option and of these the North East
Olkaria field is the only field proven to be capable of supplying sufficient capacity and
energy to satisfy the projected demand.
4.0 CONDUCT OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND REGULATORY AND
LEGAL REQUIREMENTS AFFECTING GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT -
History of land tenure
The project is located in the Naivasha Division of the Nakuru District of the Rift Valley
Province. The land on which the proposed power station is to be built is public land
which was gazetted as a National Park on 2 February 1984. KPC has operated the
2



N
_ , cgo            U
0                    REGIONAL SETTING
NeMs            Figure 2.1
9'°44s ~REGIONAL SETTING



existing East Olkaria Power station and exploration and development work for future
power station developments since 1982.
World Bank requirements and implementation of requirements
The requirements of the World Bank for EAs are outlined in Operational Directive 4.00,
(OD 4.00) Annex A: Environmental Assessment, October 1989. Annex A outlines
Bank policy and prccedures regarding EAs, and related environmental analysis, for Bank
investment lending operations. OD 4.00 was replaced in October 1991 by OD 4.01,
however this was after the commencement of the EA study.
The purpose of an EA is to ensure that the development options under consideration
are environmemally sound and sustainable and that any environmental consequences
are recognised early in the project and taken into account in project design.
The EA has been conducted to provide information on, and consideration of. the
following matters:
o    Existing environmental baseline conditions;
o    Potential environmental impacts, both direct and indirect;
o    Preventive, mitigating and compensating measures:
o    Environmental management and training: and
o    Monitoring.
To ensure interaction between the project and affected communities. the EA team have
conducted a program of regular meetings with all relevant government departrents and
non-government organisations (see Section 4.0 of the EA for details).
Relevant Acts and environmental regulations
Despite the adoption in Kenya of the Environmental Management Policy in 1979, and
the introduction of a system of Environmental Impact Reoorts to cover all major
governmental and private projects. the Environmental Assessment process as a
regulated procedure. is in its early days. In 1972. the National Environment Secretariat
within the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resource, was established to coordinate
environmental activities within the country.
The legislative environmental controls relevant to the proDosed geothermal
developments are outlined in Section 4.0 of the main text of the EA.
5.0 DESCRIPTION OF THE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
This section summarises information from the feasibility study to provide a description
of the project for thE purposes of determining its interactions with the environment. 1:
provides a brief overview of the way in which a geothermal power station is developed.
including a description of each phase of the project.  it then provides specific
information for the North East Olkaria Project. describing the steam gathering system.
the power generation system and other facilities including offices. fencing. workshops.
3



I  I         1              N             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LSTIC  m m     mL6"Lg
JoE                          FLOMP lW \AI"
S  s/-             YELL GM M#@ML POM UQ.
r g > J > * f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lake Njwivasha                                 N
-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
4J n \ @ f Ohie/(%. | >
>                         Figure 2.2
I.                \k..                     ~~~~~~LOCAL PHYSICAL SETTING.



roads, sewerage and provisions for fire fighting. The conceptual layout of the
steamfield development is presented in Figure 5.1.
Wells and separator stations
The well-field has been drilled and to date 27 production wells have been tested.
Steam and, hot water will be piped to two centrally located separator stations1.
Separated water will be conditioned and pumped to re-injection wells located in the
northeast of the field.
Pipeline routes and service roads
Although the well-field is not in an area of the park that is densely populated by
animals, care will be taken to minimise the interference of animal movements.
Power station siting
Two sites were considered in the feasibility study. These were selected on the basis of
engineering considerations and on the basis of a preliminary review of environmental
factors.   The sites were selected prior to the commencement of the detailed
environmental studies which are presented in this EA. The two sites are shown in
Section 5.0 of the EA. In summary the feasibility study concluded that two sites A and
B were equally suitable and that no technical or environmental factors favoured one site
over the other. However, this present study favours Site A. because although it will
have a greater visua! impact than Site B, it will minimise the disturbance to presently
undisturbed areas of Hell's Gate National Park. Further, the visual impacts can be
.ameliorated by bunding and tree planting.
'Power Station
The proposed layout of the power station is shown in Section 5.0 of the EA. The main
structures include the building housing the two turbines and two 32 MWe generators.
pumps and condensers and the two banks of three cooling towers, located on the
eastern side of the power station building. The 132 kV substation will be located on
the western side of the building.
Disposal of Geo Gas
At atmospheric pressure the total amount of geo gas is between 100 to 1 80 mmoles of
gas per kilogram of steam. Geo gas contains a variable mixture of gases comprising
primarily carbon dioxide 191-96% by volume), hydrogen sulphide (1.2-4.9% by
volume). hydrogen (0.7-3.3%  by volume) with the remainder being methane and
nitrogen. These nonkondensable gases will be disposed of by discharging them into
the cooling tower fans for dispersal into the atmosohere.  The toxic fraction is
hydrogen sulphide which is ultimately oxidised to sulphate and removed frorn the
atmosphere by dry and wet deposition. The impacts of hydrogen sulphide prior :o is
oxidation and removal, are discussed in detail in Section 7.4 of the EA.
Stnce completion ot the EA. the cower station design has had to be changed So that instead a' :VC
centrally located separator stations there will be 15 individual stations. The only environmental effec_ rvia:
this will have will be to marginally increase the visual impact of the prolect. Under cool, moist cor.drions
white plumes of condensing water vanour will be visible from the separator stations. In this respect vile
proposed vower station will be like the existing power station.
4



r --II ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~§RE I
t 007oo1;_<1-
STEAM  PIPE  /   )   (    f        \\                       +~~~~~      (                   \            (_RE
I  -  OWRI                                          .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RA             0
TItYO~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ PHS PIP  Iw \                                                                     02       I
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~W! -^T   AER\* \) \                                        P      -   
"--                                  op                      IE12
LEGEND                          PUBLIC LANC\
- STEAM PIPEofK LN
TWO PHASE PIPE
-_WASTE WATER/
REINJECTION PIPE                                                       ,IA
)SEPARATION STATION /\\^w
®l SEfARATIONSTA4  I                           J '*0\               Note: tate changes to tili design of the steantlwalct
®)  OISCHARGE POND                                                                              separator slatiOns will result in 15 separale Separatut
flEIN|ECTION StJ\\                                          t    stations being used instead of the Iwo shown in Ihis figure.
(b)   nEIHJECTION  SUM"P PIT    B/                      /|                                 J
o)  VENT STATION                                                                                            O W 3/  0
N,                   *                                                                               Figure 5.1
(I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%
CONCEPTUAL LAYOUT OF STEAMFIELD DEVELOPMENT
4  ~~I                           I                                   I.                                                I  -



Cooling towers
Six cooling towers will be located on the eastern side of the power station building
aligned parallel to the road and arranged in two banks of three.
The feasibility study foreshadows the use of biocides/algaecides, probably sodium
hypochlorite, which would be applied on shock dosage basis to the cooling tower
water. With deep re-injection of excess water, there would be no environmental
problems with the addition of biocides or algaecides.
The rate at which blowdown water will have to be disposed of will depend on the
enthalpy of the steam (the amount of heat energy per unit mass of steaml, the level at
which the power station is operated and atmospheric conditions, which will determine
evaporative losses. The maximum rate at which water wUll need to be disposed of from
the cooling tower, will be 76 t/h per 32 MWe unit (that is 1 52 t/h for the 84 MWe
power station) and the water temperature will be 45.5 IC. This will occur during
periods of high relative humidity and low steam enthalpy from the stearn-field.
Typically, evaporative losses from the cooling tower will be 7100 t/h per 32 MWe unit
(14 201 t/h for the 64 MWe power station). This water is primarily condensed steam
from the well-field.
Fencing
The existing East Olkaria Power Station and well-field was originally enclosed by a
cyclone wire fence approximately 2 m high. Make-up wells now exist beyond the
fence perimeter.  In addition. the East Olkaria Power Station well-heads are also
individually fenced. In contrast, the recommended practice for North East Olkaria is
that no 'perimeter fence should be built. Each well should still be individually fenced
and the central works plus conditioning ponds should also be fenced as a single unit.
The primary reason for this is minimize the interference to wildlife and to enable wildlife
to move more freely between individually fenced areas. This practice will reduce :he
amount of habitat converted from wildlife use to electricity production. The resultant
grazing should also reduce the amount of dead organic matter which forms a fire risk.
The proposal is less expensive than the existing arrangement at East Olkaria and will
also confer environmental benefits.
-Power transmission line
The route of the power transmission line has been reviewed from the power station
switch yard to the point where the transmission line turns south and runs paraliel to the
existing 132 kV line to Nairobi.  The selected route avoids the most scenically
attractive areas of the park and visual impacts will be minor.
6.0 EXISTING ENVIRONMENT
Studies have been undertaken to determine baseline environmental conditions. These
include surveys of flora, soils, fauna, climate, air quality, noise, water and soc'o-
economics.
Flora
Aerial photographs and field surveys have been used to classify the region around the
existing and proposed power station into seven major vegetation classes. These are
Bushland, Bushed Shrubland. Bushed Grassland, Shrubbed Grassland. Grassland, Rock
5



outcrop and Barren land.  The plant associations within these classifications are
described and a vegetation map has been prepared showing the distribution over the
area.
Soils
Soils in the area have been surveyed and an erosion hazard map has been prepared
which categorises the areas around the existing and proposed power stations according
to their erosion potential. The soils have been formed from quaternary to recent
volcanic eruptions, during which lava flows have been overlaid by poorly consolidated
depositions of volcanic ash, which are seven to eight metres deep in places. Some re-
distribution of this material has taken place under the action of rainfall znd run-off. If
surface vegetative cover is removed, concentrated run-off easily cuts through the upper
horizons, creating spectacular gullies. It is noted that where no development activities
have taken place, drainage lines are well vegetated and that where soils are deep and
cover is intact, run-off is minimal.
The study also examines drainage systems in the areas. Two major drainage systems
exist. one to the north (including the site of the proposed power station) and the other
to the south (including the existing power station).
Fauna
This section describes the fauna of North East Olkaria, it identifies important habitats
and provides information on the spatial distribution of habitats and daily behaviour of
.the fauna. It also provides a quantitative assessment of the density and distribution of
large herbivores established by surveying along road transect networks.
The avian community was assessed during mamnmal counts and via surveys of the
literature.
Twenty-three species of mammals were recorded. Fourteen were large herbivores and
three were small herbivores.  In addition, jackal. olive baboon. rocky hyrax and
hedgehog were noted. Reliable evidence also indicates the presence of leopard and
aardvark. Further details are presented in Sec.tion 6.4 of the EA. The study area is
characterised by low numbers of species and low species diversity. which is presumed
to be due to lack of a wide variety of habitats or to past human activities or other
influences. Animal densities have also been established over the toral park and in the
most used area, which represents 33% of the total area of 68.25 km2. Densities are
listed by species (see'Table 6.4.1 of the EA) For the whole oark area. animal densitres
range from 6.95 animals/km2 for kongoni to 0.07 animals,km2 for waterbuck. In the
most highly used area of the park. the densities ranged from 29.87 to 3.12
animals/km2 respectively. The proposed power station is not in the highly used section
of the park. Similar animal density information is provided for Kongoni Ranch adjacent
to the park.
There is limited movement of animals between the park and the adjacent land and the
fauna study identifies this freedom to move as an important element in the
management of the park. The study notes the importance of the vegetated gullies as
refuges for animals and makes a case for ensuring that these are not interfered with,
during any stage of the project cycle.
6



The section also discusses the social organisation of large herbivore species and the
observed population age structures
Issues of concern are listed. The more important of these are the need to minimise any
contraction of herbivore habitats and to ensure that migration routes are not interfered
with. Migration routes are identified on Figure 6.4.1 of the EA. Other concerns are
that earth works should not be allowed to cause the introduction of less nutritious
plants, or to cause habitat destruction due to unnecessary road construction and other
engineering works or, by indirect effects, due to erosion in gullies following engineering
works or when disposing of waste fluids.
Climate, meteorology and air quality
Two meteorological monitoring stations were established and used to collect data to
establish the existing climatic conditions and to provide data for computer-based
dispersion modelling of the power station emissions. These two stations collect data
every ten minutes on wind speed, wind direction, temperature, humidity, solar radiation
and rainfall. These data were supplemented by data from a meteorological monitoring
station operated since 1984 by the KPC Environmental Monitoring Unit that collects
standard 9 am and 3 pm meteorological observations of temperature, humidity, daily
rainfall and daily evaporation. Daily maximum and minimum temperatures are recorded
and a continuous chart record of temperature and humidity is also recorded.
Meteorological conditions are reviewed and data presented to show the range of
-variables. From an air quality point of view, wind conditions are of most importance.
Winds were found to be affected significantly by-the local topography. which funnels
-winds so that the most common wind directions. on an annual average basis. are from
the SE and ESE.
A monitoring program was undertaken to determine short-term concentrations of
hydrogen sulphide at sites within a few hundred metres of the existing power station.
One-minute average concentrations within the plume at ground-level from the existing-
power station were measured in the range 0.05 to 1.25 ppm. These measurements
indicate that hydrogen sulphide concentrations are well within work-place health level.
but well above the concentration at which odours are detectable.
Air quality goals for hydrogen sulphide in different countries are reviewed and
information is presented on the concentration of hydrogen sulphide a: : '.-.:  *e cdour
can be detected and it which effects on vegetation occur.
In the absence of formal Kenyan air quality goals for hydrogen s_..icn.ce :t is suggesteo
that the WHO 24-hour guideline should be used to assess imca=:s hevond :-e
immediate power station boundary. That is 24-hour average concentrations sniould nc:
be permitted to be above 0.10 ppm (0.15 mg/m3i beyond the imrnmediste power staticn
boundary.
Areas where non-KPC workers are located (for example Oserian Development Companv
work force) should be assessed on the 60-minute Californian Standard of 0.03 porn
(0.042 mgrm3) and residential areas should be considered affected if 30-minute
concentrations are above 0.0046 ppm [7 g/mrn3). It is proposed that residential areas
housing KPC workers be treated in the same way as other residential areas.
7



It is also proposed that areas supporting commercially, culturally or scientifically
important vegetation, should not be permitted to experience exposures above 0.03 ppm
(0.042 mg/m3) long-term average. These criteria are intended to protect all elements
of the environment from the adverse effects of hydrogen sulphide and when used with
the dispersion modelling study, results will define what level of effect may be expected
in particular areas.
Noise
Measurements of existing background noise levels are not possible because of noise
emissions from the well testing program. However, an indication of likely levels was
obtained by a 24-hour monitoring survey at a remote area near Olkaria Hill. From these
measurements background levels are estimated to lie in the range 24 to 34 dB(A).
which indicates that extremely quiet conditions would be expected to apply, particularJy
at night. Data on noise emission levels from the major noise sources at the existing
power station are also presented. These include, the cooling towers (71-72 dB(A) at
35 m). gas ejectors 172-82 dBIA) at 30 ml and wells under test (90-101 dB(A) at 15
m).
Lake Naivasha and water requirements
The lake is of great importance socially, economically and ecologically. The relative
lack of salinity of the water and the fact that there is no surface outlet is unusual
among the Rift Valley lakes. The quality of the water has resulted in large scale
horticultural farming, an extensive fishing industry and a high diversity of bird-life.
Excessive water abstraction would have a direct impact on all aspects of current use.
Information about tIe commercial fishery was provided to establish the importance of
-the lake--as a regional resource and to highlight the need for further studies to obtain
basic data that would allow the lake to be managed in a sustainable manner.
Baseline studies reviewed data on lake level variations over recorded history. The lake
has shown large variations in level (approximately 8 m between the early 1920s to the
1950s). These variations occurred without any significant abstraction- Lake levels can
be expected to show similar variations in the future. even in the absence of power
stations.
The key reason for the concern and inclusion of Lake Naivasha in this study is the
proposition that existing and proposed geothermal developments may affect lake levels
through both direct and indirect water abstraction. The direct effect involves pumping
water from the lake for such uses as drilling wells, current power station operation. and
for domestic use in company housing estates. The potential indirect effect refers to a
possible 'hydraulic-link" from the lake to the geothermal field. Such a link. if it exists-
could result in a lowering of lake levels in response to steam being withdrawn fron the
geothermal field.
An estimate of the direct water abstraccion rates by various users was first based on
water abstraction licences. but this was found to be grossly inaccurate. An alternative
approach, based on the power consumed for pumping, was then used. This is believed
to be more realistic. On the basis of power consumption it was estimated tha;
59.3x106 m3 was abstracted in 1990. KPC accounted for 3.1% of this total. Of equal
importance was the fact that KPC was only the tenth largest water abstracter: there
were nine other companies abstracting greater quantities of water from rhe lake.
Another important point is that the water for KPC included drilling water for the North
8



East Power Station Development. water requirements for the existing East Olkaria
power station and for domestic purposes. By far the largest proportion was for drilling
and with completion of the development phase of the project, water consumption is
likely to dramatically reduce. However, it is likely that further (exploratory) drilling will
continue in other areas
During the course of the study some details were discovered of a project to dam the
largest river discharging into Lake Naivasha for use as a water supply for Nakuru city.
In terms of amounts of direct water abstraction the first phase of this dam project
would represent the second greatest source and as such its impact is far greater than
that of KPC.
The concerns over indirect water abstraction lie with the possible hydraulic-link
between the lake and the geothermal resource. The first step was to review literature
that attempted to develop a water balance for lake inflow and losses (evaporation and
underground flow). The studies are not conclusive. Sub-surface outflow is estimated
to be around 50x1 o6 m3/year. The most significant route for the flow is thought to be
to the south via relatively shallow aquifers.
The hydrogeological features of the Lake Naivasha area are; a poorly permeable unit
(equiclude) underlying the lake and separating it from the geothermal field: and the dual
steam and hot-water zones of the Olkaria field. A secondary, but significant. feature is
the series of shallow. perched. unconfined aquifers on top of the aquiclude. which are
-found in numerous drill holes. The perched aquifers appear to be in direct hydraulic
continuity with Lake Naivasha-
There appears to be leakage through the aquiclude into the deeper geothermal system.
Whether this is direct underflow from the lake or comes indirectly via the perched
aquifers is unknown. The isotopic identification of lake water in the geothermal steam
has been explained as downward leakage followed by mixing with non-Naivasha water,
and does not require direct pressure in the steam or hot-water zone and levels in the
lake or perched aquifers.
As a precaution and because the potential indirect abstraction impact will last
throughout the life of the project once commissioned. the 'worst-case scenario of a
direct connection between the lake and the geothermal field was invesrigared. The
amount of steam abstracted is approximately 6 kg/s per 2.5 MWe. The ICS MWe of
existing and proposed generating capacity would reauire a rt:al of E.2x10  &3 year
However, the proposed North East Olka.ia Power Srat!on will practice re-inlection c!
waste water back into the region of the geothermal field There Is also a pronosa: ;ma:
the existing East Olkaria Power Station may also ads.ose of waste wa:er tv re-
injection.  The net extraction is unlikely to exceed 4xto6 m3'year   Tnts .s
approximately 10% of the minimum estimated sub-surface flow associated witr ::'-e
lake. Thus even in the improbable event of a direct connection between the lake anC
the geothermal field the disturbance that exploitation of the geothermal resource woul-
cause would be minor (namely 10% or less).
Water quality and management
The water from geothermal wells has generally been described as brine because of the
high concentration of salts. The brine from North East Olkaria has only a mildly salry
taste and this does not seem objectionable to wildlife. Detailed data on well-water
9



(brine) chemistry and lake water chemistry are presented. The data show that well-
water is not particularly toxic, particularly when the regional setting is taken into
consideration. However, concentrations of fluoride in the brine reach 164 mg/l which
is two orders of magnitude above the health limit of 1.7 mg/A and the concentration of
arsenic at up to 0.14 mg/I is above the 0.05 mg.!l health limit.  On these two
parameters alone it is necessary to dispose of the brine water by re-injection.
Lake water quality will not be affected by the geothermal development proposal.
However, it is noteworthy that the fluoride concentration of lake water at 1.85 mg/l
exceeds the health limit. Such levels are not unusual in surface water in Kenya.
Soao-economics
The geothermal project lies within Naivasha Location. in Naivasha Division within
Nakuru District (Figure 10.6.1 of the EA). The present population of Naivasha urban
area is estimated to be 40 000 and the number of people living south of the lake. 48
000 and west, north and east of the lake. 62 000. The total population in Naivasha
District is therefore estimated to be 150 000.
The power station development area lies within the Hell's Gate National Park. which
was gazetted in 1984. three years after the East Olkaria Power Station commenced
operation.   The proposed  site of the North East Olkaria Power Station lies
approximately 3.3 km north-northwest of the existing East Olkaria Power Station. The
southern boundary of the closest flower farm (Oserian) is approximately 1.2 km to the
.north-northeast of the proposed power station site. The Lake is approximately 5.3 km
to the north and Naivasha Town is approximately-22 km to the north-northeast.
The economic structure of the Naivasha township is reviewed. Aooroximately 4808
people are in wage employment and in 1987 average earnings per caolta were 1552
KShs/month. There are no published statistics for the area soutr of the lake. Mosz
people are employed in agricultural activitves and the total number of ernployees is
estimated at 30 000. The largest employers are Sulmac and Oserian. which operate:
flower farms bordering  the Hell's Gate National Park and  resoectively emnloy
approximately 3000 and 2300 people.  Other important comrner:;a; actIvltles are
ranching. tourism and farming including horticultural businesses.
Community infrastructure includes four secondary schools. 45 ortma'v s:--- s a-: --:
nursery schools and some trade and tertiary institutions.  -ea-:h se, :e! -: _:-e
District Hospital, a nuTnber of health centres and approximate1v se.e-   ::5 -_ea --
private clinics. Sulmac. Olkaria (KPCI and Oserian operate :- 2xe : - :, . a-ia
the facilities are considered inadequate for the existing oc:_ a2 _^   : !-: - .a:e
housing is available. but there is a shortage. Water sut-es  e:ea:-a    - es a-:
transportation are also inadequate. Some traffic count cata !or tr'e 2a 5o -:a:s -
area have been collected and are presented in Section 6.10 of tne EA.-
The existing power station employs 200-300 people, which represents a sma:l
percentage of the estimated 8000 employees south of the lake. Further, KPC provides
housing and basic medical services. PercePtions and attitudes towards the existing
power station and KPC's local presence have been surveyed both in the local
community and from the perspective of foreign tourists. There are concerns among the
community that there is possible pollution (including health hazards), that geothermal
development may affect lake levels and concern about the driving standards of KPC
10



Flora
The existing power station at East Olkaria provides a useful basis for assessing impacts
for the proposed North East Power Station, which is to be developed in a similar
environment. Apart from the effects of roads, buildings and the deliberate modification
by slashing to control vegetation, the vegetation shows no obvious differences
between the vegetation categories near the existing power station and those in the site
of the proposed power station. To examine for the less obvious effects that might
arise due to emissions from the existing station, two further studies were carried out.
The first was to compare quantitative data on species diversity and abundance
between the possibly affected area (that is adjacent to the existing station) to that of a
relatively remote and unaffected area in another catchment. Based on the results of
these studies, there would not seem to be any indication that vegetation diversity had
been affected by the existing station. Although classified as one type of vegetation,
there are pronounced differences in species composition between the different
locations. These differences however, are not due to changes in dominant (abundant)
species but small and relatively uncommon forbs and succulents.
The existing station has been operating for over a decade. After this length of time.
the chronic effects could have caused a reduction in abundance of certain species
(especially annuals) or a failure to re-establish, resulting in a greater proportion of bare
soil, that is, increased erosion potential. A survey of 20 subplots showed that the
proportion of bare soil was no greater than that found at the remote sites, near X2-
Camp (Table 7.1.4 of the EA). Also, the greater species diversity is an indication that
*the sites are unlikely to be devegetated.
-The second study related to concern over the proximity of the commercial flower
growers and the potential for air emissions to adversely affect these commercially
important operations. A cooperative study with Oserian. the closest flower growing
neighbour, has approximately "repiicated", on a small scale, some of the flower
growing that takes place at Oserian.  The study has involved the growing of
commercial flower species at 0.6 and 1.2 km from the cooling towers of the existing
power station. Further details and discussion of both studies are given in Sections
7.1.2 and 7.1.3 of the EA.
Interesting differences between the performance of the two flower trial areas were
observed. These differences are not considered to be due to atmospheric effects.
However. it is recommended that these cooperative studies be continued until a more
complete understand?ng is obtained. The predicted annual average conCntrations of
hydrogen sulphide in the two flower trial areas is higher by a factor of eight (for the
closest flower trial site) and four (for the more distant sitel. than are the Predicted
annual average concentrations in the closest commercial flower growing areas  This is
despite the fact that the flower trial areas are approximately as far downwind from the
existing power station as the commercial flower areas will be from the larger proposed
power station. This is a result of the superior disposal method to be used for the new
power station, compared with the existing power station.
In summary, although our understanding of the effects of power station emissions is
incomplete and it is recommended that the flower trial studies should be continued.
there is no evidence that power station emissions of hydrogen sulphide are likely to
affect horticultural activities carried out on neighbouring land.
12



The major impacts on flora are assessed as being due to impacts during construction,
namely. removal and destruction of vegetation in areas to be cleared for roads,
buildings, sump ponds and other structures.  The nature of the impact is well
understood and is limited in area. A more subtle impact may occur due to the
introduction of exotic species in the cleared areas. Care will need to be taken to ensure
that these works do not cause such impacts and that indigenous species are
encouraged to re-establish as rapidly as possible.
Finally, the potential disturbance to the balance of the ecology through disruption of the
normal patterns of grazing and the natural cycles of bushfires is considered. Initial
studies indicate that these impacts are likely to be minor but studies are recommended
to monitor the effects.
Soils
The soils studies conclude that the potential for soil erosion by water is high.
However, if appropriate and timely erosion control techniques are used, impacts can be
kept to a minimum and acceptable level. The key issue is one of management rather
than any insurmountable technical difficulty. Appropriate mitigating and monitoring
measures are set out in Section 7.2 of the EA.
The following mitigating measures are recommended for the proposed development.
Disturbed areas should be me-vegetated with locally occurring grasses as soon as
possible so that soil erosion does not occur. Steeo slopes should not be disturbed or
.created by earth works. Rainfall run-off from compacted areas, or areas where rainfall
cannot infiltrate effectively, should be controlled and diverted to infiltration areas with
shallow slopes.
Care will have to be taken to attend to erosion oroblems as they arise and not allow the
level of erosion that has occurred in the past. The proposed method of disposal of well
water and brine by deep re-injection will eliminate flow of surface waters and therefore
the development of the deeP gullies which are characteristic of the type of erosion
problem that has occurred in the past.
It is recommended that effectiveness of the erosion control measures be monitored.
Soil conditions should be reviewed at monthly intervals during construction and at
yearly intervals during operation. by a soils expert. Finally. it is recommended that KPC
.nominates an officerto take responsibility for the day to day concrot of all activities
that could lead to soil erosion. The officer should be briefed by a soils expert as to tne
nature of risks and should be provided with sufficient authority to cirect contractors
concerning day to day activities that could lead to erosion
Fauna
The main areas of concem are the loss of habitat from a variety 'of causes. thle
potentially toxic effect of brine if used for drinking water. the death of animals through
road accidents and the conflicts caused by the presence of human settlements and
activity within the park. The fauna impact assessment section discusses these matters
in some detail. The park is small compared with the major conservation areas in Kenya.
It is an important local facility. has significant local support. a high scenic value and
complements the lake as a tourist attraction, It is not populated by elephant, rhino or
13



other 'high priority wildlife species". An extensive set of recommendations is provided
concerning methods of mitigating impacts for each phase of the project.
Climate, meteorology and air quality
The -power station will have -no significant effect on the climate of the area. Carbon
dioxide emissions from the existing and proposed power stations generating 1 09 MWe
for a year, are estimated to be 87 200 tonnes. An equivalent amount of electrical
energy delivered by a coal-fired power station, with 37% efficiency burning black coal
with calorific value of 23 MJ/kg and carbon content of 65%. would result in the
emission of approximately eleven times as much (964 000 tonnes) of carbon dioxide.
Air quality impacts due to the proposal have been assessed in conjunction with the
impacts of the existing power station, as these effects will be cumulative. The
approach has been to use a dispersion model with the on-site meteorological data to
estimate ground-level concentration of hydrogen sulphide. This was identified in
Section 6.6 of the EA as the only air emission with the potential to have significant
impact.
Predicted ground-level concentrations of hydrogen sulphide are presented for three
cases: (1) the East Olkaria Power Station operating by itself. (21 the proposed North
East Power Station operating by itself and (3X both power stations operating together.
Predicted concentrations related to 1-hour. 24-hour and 1-year averaging periods. are
presented. An important point to note is that the proposed power station will dispose
.of ernissions of non-condensable gases by release into the cooling tower plume. The
existing power station releases emissions from a set of gas ejectors on the side of the
.power station building. The height of the gas ejectors is such that the emission is
frequently entrained into the building-wake (an area of turbulent air downwind of the
building? . This results in much higher ground-level concentrations of hydrogen sulphide
than is expected with the proposed power station.
Predicted ground-level concentrations are compared with appropriate air quality goals
and it is concluded that the only adverse impacts will relate to odour. For each of the
three cases (see abovel the frequency with which the 0.0058 opm odour detection
limit for hydrogen sulphide is predicted to be exceeded in the course of a year.
(approximately) is estimated for ten sites in the vicinity of the project area. The
introduction of the new power station is predicted to cause a marginal increase on the
number of hours that the 0.0058 ppm (30-minute average) concentration is exceeded
at all sites, except at-X2-Camp (a KPC housing area) where the increase over a year is
predicted to rise from 1 654 hours at present. to 2280 hours (a 38 percent increase).
For all other areas, the increase is substantially less (see Table 7.4.4 of the EA).
Noise
Noise impact assessment has been undertaken for the well-testing, construction and
operational phases of the project.
Well testing
The results of noise modelling studies show that well testing has the capacity to cause
adverse noise impacts at X2-Camp and in the Olkaria Gate area. The limited duration
of the well testing program mitigates the impact. nevertheless. for the well testing
phase of the project, adverse noise impacts will occur at these two sites.
14



Well testing will also affect the acoustical environment of other areas of the Hell's gate
National Park. In general. in day time conditions. noise from well testing in the areas of
the park most used by visitors. will not be noticed above background noise levels. At
night time the park is not open to visitors. However, the camping area (approximately
4 km ENE of the East Olkaria Power Station) may at times be occupied by campers.
Under light winds and inversion conditions, noise from the well testing is audible and
may be considered by some campers to detract from the value of the camping
experience. However, noise levels will at all times be lower than 35 dB(A) and may
equally well be considered as an interesting feature of the area. Given the limited
duration of well testing, the impacts are not considered significant.
Construction phase
The noisiest phase during construction will be when site works are being undertaken.
This work. which will span approximately 9 months, will involve the use of bulldozers.
graders. scrapers, front-end loaders, trucks and cranes. Work will be confined to
daytime, only 7 am to 5.30 pm. Noise will be clearly audible at X2-Camp (500 m NW
of the site), at KWS' Olkaria Gate (I km to the NNW) and to workers in the
neighbouring flower growing areas on Oserian Developments flower growing land (1.2
km to the NNW).
Operational phase noise
Predicted noise levels due to the existing East Olkaria and proposed North East Olkaria
power station are presented in Figure 7.532. X2-Camp is prediEcted to experience LA10
.levels in the range 43 to 50 dBMA) and the Olkaria Gate area to experience a level of
approximately 38 dB(A). Thus X2-Camp is expected to experience a significant impact
-and the Olkaria Gate area to experience a marginal impact.
Lake Naiivasha and water requirements
The amount of lake water drawn by the existing geothermal project and the proposed
development has been shown to be a small proportion of the total amount of water
abstracted. On its own therefore it is unlikely to affect the lake level significantly.
Indirect abstraction via a possible hydraulic link between the Lake and the wells is also
unlikely to have a major impact.
Historically, water-levels at Lake Naivasha fluctuate significantly and it is likely that
they will continue to do so. It is important to consider that over the expected 30-year
life of the proposed power station. there are likely to be periods when the lake level is
very low. KPC should therefore. not rely on the lake as a source of water for the entire
life of the project. Contingency plans should be made for alternative water sources for
drilling and domestic purposes when the need arises.
Water quality and management
Although by world standards the geothermal brine is not particularly toxic. it does
exceed health-based water quality goals and needs to be disposed of in a safe manner.
The elements of most concem are fluoride. arsenic and lead.
Waste-water disposal is required during all phases of the project cycle, however the
original practise of disposal into gullies and natural drainage lines has led to serious
erosion in some areas. This form of impact is assessed and discussed in the EA- The
present system for water disposal was initiated recently by KPC and involves piping all
15



brine, from walls being tested, into a collection pond and then gravity reinjecting. A
similar pro:edure has been initiated for drilling waste-water.
During the long-term commissioned phase of the project, the geothermal brine will be
disposed of by deep re-injection. The level of re-injection will be below lake level and
there is little possibility of surface or ground water pollution.
Socio-economics
The consultant's findings with respect to anticipated impacts and appropriate mitigating
measures throughout all elements of the socio-economic environment, follow a broad
theme. This requires KPC to provide its own facilities, rather than relying on Naivasha
town and the facilities of the Municipality.
The Municipality development plans and information from discussions with local
officials, as well as residents and business people, give rise to the conclusion that any
major project in the Naivasha area, including the Olkaria geothermal project, is advised.
both in its own interests, as well as the Municipality's. not to put any further burdens
on the infrastructure of Naivasha town. The approach will have to be one of self-
sufficiency within the project area.
The consultant recommends that provided adequate steps are taken, as indicated here,
in the area of infrastructure and social facilities, and provided a joint planning approach
continues between KWS and KPC for the optimum management of Hell's Gate National
Park. the socio-economic aspects of the project will not cause undue concern. A
number of positive benefirs have resulted from general geothermal development, in
.particular the upgrading of the Moi South Lake Road has significantly reduced travel
times, vehicle damage. dust emissions and has significantly improved general access to
the area south of the lake.
The total peak work force during the main civil works for the power station, high
voltage sub-stations, high voltage transmission line and steamfield development
construction is estimated to be 920. The total construction period will be two years.
Approximately 575 staff are expected to be drawn from people already living in the
area. Thus the total number of people affected will be approximately 2875 including an
estimated four dependents per worker. This may be compared with vie estimated
48 000 people living south of the lake, or the 40 000 in Naivasha rown
Approximately 345 people are expected to be recruited into '.e area !-1 otL:s;ce
Taking an average household size of three, this reDresen:s a,ourd 1'C35 acHl::ona
people coming into a south-of-the-lake population of some 42 000. ar. :c!ease c' 2%
The existing KPC project has an on-site population of 687. of whom 150 are generation
staff (Olkaria East Power Station) and 537. development operations staff (drillirg.
scientific. civil, safety, training. personnel, administration  and finance).   The
requirement during construction phase, on average. will be roughly.comparable to the
existing workforce.
!n terms of absolute numbers. the influx is relatively small compared with the increase
of over 5% per annum in population over the last few years. However, the impact on
16



the socio-economics of the area will be significant, and is discussed in detail in Section
7.8. of the EA.
X2-Camp will need to be relocated. In order to minimise disturbance in Hell's Gate
National Park, the new housing camp will have to be located outside the Park
boundaries. This is consistent with the Park management strategy adopted by KWS
and with widely accepted management practices for national parks. The options are
discussed in Section 7.8 of the EA.
It has been demonstrated that there is a severe shortage of schooling facilities in
Naivasha town.
The existing Mvuke Primary School has a total of 403 pupils of which 324, or 78%,
are children of KPC employees. The Standard One and Two classes have two streams
each, while Standard Three to Eight have only one stream. The total number of
teachers in the primary School is nine. KPC has already in place plans for expansion of
the existing schooling facilities. KPC has purchased 14 acres of land near the existing
schools to cater for the expansion of both the primary and nursery schools.
KPC has its own health centre at Olkaria. However, the influx of 920 people during the
construction phases, is expected to create heavy pressure on this existing facility.
Substantial additional health facilities will need to be provided for basic out-patient
services.
From the workforce of 920, about 575 or 62.5% are expected to commute to and
.from the Power Station site.  Transportation could be provided by the selected
contractor using lorries/buses, or by public means that is buses and matatus. In the
latter case, the demand on public transport wiJI call for a doubling of the existing
capacity, representing a 22% increase in total motorised vehicuiar traffic. However.
given the very low traffic levels reported in the baseline study. this increase will not
create a problem.
In addition to vehicular traffic. the number of pedestrians is also expected to rise
substantially. During the Baseline tourist survey, it was noted that 17% of the tourists
visiting Hell's Gate National Park. entered the park via the Olkaria Gate. Tourists.
construction workers. KWS personnel and KPC staff who will be travelling on foot.
stand a higher risk of road accidents.  The consultant recommends that safety
measures be incorporated to safeguard pedestrians against such accidents
Effects on tourism need not be of great concern if all the necessary measures are
taken. The biggest probable impact during this stage may be the discouragement Oi
tourists visiting the Park through the Olkaria Gate by the presence of construction
activities just inside the Park.
Close dialogue between KPC and KWS is necessary to work out a straregy whereby the
new Power Station, although designed to be more aesthetically pleasing. does not
create a deterrent to tourism. The formal mechanism for this interaction is in place and
KPC and KWS management enjoy a productive working arrangement. KPC regularly
attend the Hell's Gate Management Committee meetings.
17



As indicated by the tourist survey carried out during the Baseline studies. there is no
-evidence that the presence of a geothermal power station is discouraging foreign
tourists from visiting the National Park.
The-major interaction between the Maasai and the power station is in the context of
the power station providing a reliable supply of water. At present the Maasai living
close to the boundary of the park. make use of this water to supplement other less
reliable supplies of water. It is envisaged that there will be no impact on the Maasai
during the construction phase as none are living in the National Park.
One area to which some consideration should be given is the indirect impact that could
occur if geothermal development within Hell's Gate National Park results in KWS
needing additional areas. The analysis undertaken in the fauna studies indicates that
KPC activities will not affect the capacity of the park to support the animal population
provided the identified safeguards are adopted. However the park may already be too
small. even if KPC were not present, to function as a self-sufficient habitat for its
animal population.
The operation phase will bring 113 permanent salaried staff into the area with
commensurate spending power, which should positively affect business for shops and
other commercial enterprises south of the lake. The gross income for the operating
staff at peak level, will be in excess of KShs 390 000 per month representing annual
earnings of KShs 4.7 million. Since many of the workers will be immigrants, a
substantial fraction of earnings could be expected to be remitted to home districts.
However, there will inevitably be some increase in local spending and the remitted
.earnings will have economic benefits in other parts of Kenya.
The consultant recommends that 113 additional permanent houses be constructed to
cater for the additional 100 administrative supervisory staff to be housed during the
construction phase, who will be replaced by 113 people drawn partly from the same
group and partly from outside the area.
KPC has existing Primary and Nursery Schools at rhe Lake View Housing Estate
catering for children of the operating staff at the Olkaria East Power Station. It is
estimated that the operating staff of the new station will bring in about 295 nursery
school age children and 590 primary school age children2.
The consultant recommends that the new nursery school to be built to cater for the
additional 100 children during the construction phase, be designed for more capacity to
accommodate an additional 195 children. during the operational phase. Secondly, the
existing primary school will need to be expanded to cater for 590 additional children 'e
more streams be introduced per class.
The consultant considers that the health facilities established during the construction
phase of the project will adequately cater for the operating staff. and with the proposed
monitoring program in place, should provide sufficient out-patient services.
2 Based on the assurnmhion that the employees housed at the KPC Estates will have at least one
nursery school age child and two prirnary school age children per family, and that 10% of emplovees
housed at X2 Camp will have the same number of school-going children (X2 camp actually has bachelor
status but it is expected that the employees will have famiiies with them, as is the case for East Olkarial.
18



KPC at present has two buses, which make twvo trips per day between the existing
power station and Naivasha, providing transport for the 1 63 operating staff at the
existing power station, who live in Naivasha. The new power station will call for the
acquisition of an additional two buses to cope with the increased population.
The Geothermal project on the whole will have a positive impact on tourism, for
reasons stated earlier. However, the critical factor in ensuring that the project will have
a positive influence on tourism and hence the economy of the country, will be the close
collaboration between KPC and KWS in their commitment to environmental
conservation.
The recreational facilities recommended for the construction phase will be adequate to
cater for the KPC employees and families during the operations phase.
One of the most significant environmental impacts of the proposed development from a
socio-economic perspective, is the presence of a full-time residential workforce within
the park. This is not consistent with good environmental management of national
parks nor is it consistent with the approach adopted by KWS in moving the Maasai out
of the park. Nevertheless, it is considered that a satisfactory arrangement can be made
that will allow the valuable geothermal resource to be made available to the wider
community, while still preserving Hell's Gate National Park as an effective tourist
attraction and safe habitat for the present fauna and flora.
8.0 CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
This section summarises the major findings of each study and lists in point form the
recommendations for monitoring and management.
The overall conclusion is that the proposed power station as set out in the feasibility
study is an acceptable development from an environmental point of view. This
conclusion assumes that the power station is constructed as described in the feasibility
study and in particular that re-injection of waste water takes place. It is noted that the
feasibility study has not demonstrated that re-injection can accept the volumes of
water that will need to be disposed of.  Also a number of important mitigaTing
measures are proposed. These are summarised below.
Flora
Flora studies have documented baseline conditions in the area around the existing anC
proposed power stations. The main ways in which geothermal development could be
expected to affect vegetation would be (1) via the action of gaseous emissions. 12) by
the action of hot or cold geothermal brine either as flowing water on the surface or as
airborne droplets of geothermal brine and (3) by the physical removal-of vegetation to
make way for roads. drilling pads. buildings and so on.
In summary the following safeguards and monitoring work should be adopted to
manage and minimise impacts.
1.    Keep area cleared of natural vegetation to a minimum.
19



2.    Make use of deep re-injection of brine and drilling water to avoid potential
toxic effects on flora.
3.    Cleared areas should be quickly rehabilitated with appropriate indigenous
flora to prevent the growth of opportunistic species.
4.    Monitoring the abundance and diversity of natural vegetation should
continue. If necessary, appropriate action should be taken by KWS such
as controlled grazing and burning of park areas. The Environmental Unit
of KPC should be made fully aware of all such activities.
5.    The potential effect on local flower ftrms should be monitored with the
flower trails continuing for a total of two years. If the Oserian Estate
wish to extend the trials longer than this they should be given access to
the plots.
KPC's Environmental Monitoring Unit at Olkaria have sufficient expertise to undertake
this work, provided assistance (through a local Kenyan consultancy) is available for
specialist advice such as the species occurrence studies.
Soils
Soil erosion has been identified as a particularly difficult area of the environment to
manage at Olkaria. Soils comprise deep, poorly consolidated volcanic ash deposits
overlaying lava flows. These are readily eroded by rainfall run-off, waste water from
wells (drilling or tebting) and burst water pipes or sumps. Erosion channels once
.initiated-can then grow spectacularly until a stable land form is re-established. Much of
erosion control rests in the application of good engineering practice. The following
points list mitigating measures and monitoring studies.
1.   It is recommended that effectiveness of the erosion control measures be
monitored by visual inspections undertaken at monthly intervals during
construction and annually in the operation phase.
2.    KPC should nominate an officer to take responsibility for the day to day
control of all activities that could lead to soil erosion. The officer should
be briefed by a soils expert as to the nature of risks and should be
provided with sufficient authority to direct contractors concerning day to
day activities that could lead to erosion. The officer could be a member
of KPC's Environmental Monitoring Unit. but if this were the case then
dirtetion would need to be made through senior management on-site.
3.    Disturbed areas cleared of vegetation should be minimised.
4.    Slopes in cut and fill earthworks should be minimised.
5     Revegetation of disturbed areas should be undertaken as soon as
possible.   Signs should  be  placed to  indicate areas undergoing
rehabilitation. In the initial rehabilitation phase plants unpalatable to
grazing animals such as the widely occuring indigenous Tarconanthus
Carmphoratis-Oleleshua should be used so that plantings have an
opportunity to grow and establish without being eaten by grazing
20



animals. More nutritious plants can be grown once the initial growth is in
place.
6.    All fluid discharges should be piped or transferred in concrete lined open
channels from the source to sumps or disposal areas.
Fauna
The fauna survey has identified approximate baseline conditions for large herbivores.
their migration routes and the avian species in the area. It it concluded that the power
station development will result in the loss of some habitat due to presence of physical
structures, buildings, roads, pipelines and so on. In addition the presence of increased
human activity will alienate some areas.
Despite these inevitable impacts it is concluded that power station development would
not result in an unacceptable level of impact. The following list summarises the
safeguards and monitoring programs that should be undertaken to ensure that impacts
are minimised.
1.    Game-proof fences around the holding ponds should be established to
prevent wildlife drinking geothermal brine, which if consumed over an
extended period may lead to chronic poisoning due to excess fluoride and
other trace elements in the water.
2.    Dispose of drilling waier and brine by deep re-injection.
3.    Locate drains and pipelines so that they do not form barriers for small
animals.
4.   Introduce speed humps to reduce animal deaths from excessive vehicle
speeds.
5.    Minimise the area taken up by roads, padsites and plant to reduce loss of
habitat.
6.    Train workers regarding park regulations particularly with regard to
interaction with animals and littering.
7.    Develop adequate facilities for disposal of all waste generated as a resul:
of power station development and operation including used machinerv.
used or broken pipes. packaging material. chemicals. oils. sewage.
domestic and office waste materials and so on.
8.    San the introduction bv the workforce of exotic animals [sucn as
domestic dogs and cats) and exotic plants (apart from indoor plants).
9.    Rehabilitate cleared areas with indigenous veg'etation as soon as possible
to restore habitat.
10.   Keep fencing to a minimum to avoid loss of habitat. Care should be
taken to ensure that there are no small animals trapped inside fenced
areas.
21



11.  Monitor animal numbers. movements and distribution. This should be
done either independently by KPC or in liaison with KWS.  KPC's
Environmental Monitoring Unit should actively participate in these studies
and should oe made aware of the findings of these studies and the
management decisions which are made as a result of these findings.
12.  Control movements in the park of tratfic generated by KPC's activities
e       .                         (including KPC's vehicles, contractor's vehicles and KPC's visitor's
vehicles) to ensure that they comply with .KWS's traffic management
plans in the park.
13.  It is considered desirable that in the long-term  there are no human
settlements within the park.
Air quality
The air quality studies conclude that air quality in the vicinity of the existing power
station, is satisfactory in that no adverse health effects are likely to be expected.
However odour impacts occur over a large area. Emissions of hydrogen sulphide from
the proposed power station will be through discharge into the cooling tower plumes.
This is predicted to result in much lower ground-level concentrations of hydrogen
sulphide than occur from the existing power station, despite the fact that the proposed
power station will be have 42% greater generating capacity than the existing one.
It is concluded that for most sites odour impacts will remain more or less at present
levels, in terms of tfie number of times the odour threshold Is exceeded. The exception
is sites close to the proposed power station such as X2-Camv and the Olkaria Gate
area.  At X2-Camp the number of detected odours is exDecteC to increase by
approximately 38%. All other occupied residential areas are exnected to experience
only minor increases in odour events.
Small amounts of radioactive radon will be emitted as non-condensable geo gas.,
Maxirnum long-term ground-level concentrations are predicted co be of tne order of one
per cent of the WHO air quality guideline.
The following recommendations concerning air quality are made.
1    X2-Camp should be relocated to prevent oc:Lnan!s '@cr, =e -; e   se:
to nuisance levels of odour.
2.    Meteorological monitoring should be continue: a: :-e  .: -3-- s e
3.    One and preferably two continuous hyrc;e- s_ :-.:e           .
logging equiomentl should be established to mCnitor   ::t;en s_. -.-
concentrations at the flower trial areas to the north of t.'e East Olka!.a
power station and at XZ2Camp. Data collected by the monitor should _-
used to verity the prediction made by the dispersion modelling study a=r_
the model should be fine-tuned so that KPC have an improved predictive
tool co assess impacts and to provide further data to other environmental
monitoring programs, such as vegetation monitoring.
22



4.   The cooperative flower trial studies with Oserian Development Company
should be continued until such times as Oserian Development CompanV
are satisfied that the sensitivity of their operations to hydrogen sulphide
- has been determined.  It would be useful if these studies were to
establish the threshold at which adverse effects begin to occur. This
would be useful information for IKPC's future planning. It is envisaged
that these studies mnay need a further period of at least two years.
5.    A survey of radon concentrations in the ambient air near the existing
power station and proposed power station should be undertaken.
6.    KPC's Environmental Unit at Olkaria should continue to develop its
expertise in dispersion modelling and air quality monitoring and to make
use of monitoring data to assess the performance of the dispersion
model. This enhancement in expertise will require overseas training or
the use of outside consultants with expertise in air quality matters, or a
combination of both.
Noise
Noise studies have concluded that background-levels in the area will be very low. less
than 30 dB(A), from time to time. Given this, it is concluded that an appropriate
environmental noise quality goal is that LA10 levels from the development should not
exceed 35 dB(A) at any residential receptor. In the absence of natural topographic
barriers that would attenuate noise levels from wells under test. noise levels are
predicted to exceed 35 dBMA) at distances of between 4 and 5 km from the well.
Given the temporary nature of the well testing operation, these impacts are not seen as
causing a problem and should be excluded from the 35 dBMA) goal provided this activity
remains a temporary or intermittent activity. Noise emission from the proposed power
station when operating, will exceed the 35 dBMA) level out to approximately two
kilometres. From time to time (under conditions of low background noise) the noise
level from the power station will be intrusive at X2-Camp.
Recommended mitigating measures are as follows:  -
1.   Re-locate X2-Camp to  outside the 35  dBMA) contour for
operational noise; and
2.    MonitoF noise levels at the Olkaria Gate KWS residences and provice
acoustical treatment of these residences if the measured LA,1 levels due
to the power station are above 35 dBMA) and if the affected residents
request such treatment.
Lake Naivasha
Lake Naivasha is an important body of fresh water in the Rift Valley. Lake levels have
shown large variations over the course of this century and presumably will continue ;z
do so regardless of whether geothermal development takes place or not. The warer
balance for the lake is not well understood. Part of the complication lies in determining
the unknown sub-ground flows which are generally acknowledged as the mechanism
by which the water stays 'fresh" despite the lake being in a high annual evaporation
area and there being no surface outflow.
23



KPC is a user of Lake Naivasha wiater for drilling, power station make-up water and
domestic water supply. KPC's abstraction in 1990 was estimated to be approximately
3.1% of total water abstracted. With this comparatively low level of abstraction the
impact of KPC's activities on the lake are concluded to be minor.
KPC also abstracts water from the geothermal field in the process of using steam. The
proposed power station will re-inject much of this water back into the geothermal field.
There is also a proposal that the existing power station adopt a policy of re-injection.
Net water abstraction from the geothermal field is estimatedto be approximately 4x106
m3/year. This is estimated to be approximately 10% of the lowest estimate of ground
water flow under the lake. Thus in the unlikely event that the lake is hydraulically
connected to the geothermal field, the power development activities would only perturb
the flow by 10 % (at most).
It is clear that the lake will come under increasing pressure as development in the
region makes greater and greater demands for water in other towns and cities. not only
Naivasha. The Malewa dam proposal plans to abstract water from a river that is a
major input to the lake. There is a need for a thorough understanding of the lake's
water balance so it is possible to develop reliable, sustainable, development plans for
the lake. Even through KPC is a relatively minor user of the lake (3.1% of the total
abstraction) it is in its interest to support studies that will help improve the
understanding of the water balance.
Water disposal
The consultants hav'e based their environmental assessment on the assumption that
.waste water will be disposed of by re-injection. It is noted that tests of re-injection,
wells have not been made at the disposal rates that will be required for a 64 MWe
power station in humid conditions with low enthalpy wells. These tests should be
conducted and the capacity of the proposed re-injection wells to accept water at a
suitable depth. at the required rate, without interference with the geothermal field
should be demonstrated.
Socio-economics
Socio-economic studies have established baseline data on a range of socio-economic
topics including population size, schools, housing, health facilities, traffic, water
supplies. employrnent. tourism. structure of the local economy, community atiltudes.
attitudes/perceptions of tourists. recreational facilities. the Maasai and the Hells Gate
National Park.
The main conclusion of these studies is that the infrastructure of the area is presentzv
stretched beyond its capacity. Thus even though KPC's development plans recresen:
only a relatively minor increase In population and hence demand for services. it will be
important that the project be developed in a self-sufficient way. That is that housing
schooling, medical services. recreational facilities and so on should be-provided by the
project and no reliance should be put on these facilities being provided by the exisTInn
local government.
It is also concluded that the project will not have an adverse impact on tourism and car
be made to enhance the attraction of the area to tourists. particularly to visitors to the
Hell's Gate National Park. It is considered that the upgraded road makes access to :the
park far easier and allows the park to be accessed by visitors from Nairobi relatively
24



easily.  The improved road has also been a significant gain to most of the local
community with travel times from the Naivasha to the SW side of the lake being
halved. Also dust fallout and concentration levels in areas adjacent to the road have
been very much reduced. The power station itself also has the capacity to draw
visitors to the park. There will of course be some negative impacts on the park as the
power station buildings and infrastructure and associated human presence will alienate
some land from use by animals.
Specific recommendations to ensure that the project does not strain the Naivasha area
infrastructure and that the impacts on the park are minimised. are listed below.
1.    X2-Camp (or re-located KPC campl will need to be expanded to
accommodate an additional 245 employees. It is recommended that this
accommodation be located outside the park.
2.    Approximately 220 additional permanent houses will have to be built at
the Estate. It has, in the past, been suggested by KPC that some of the
existing junior staff houses be demolished to provide land for two or
three storeyed flats.
3.    The additional water requirement at X2-Camp. will have to be catered for
by increasing the existing water supply. At the same time, the existing
supply at the Estates should be upgraded and capacity increased.
4     Additional sewage treatment facilities will be required both at the
relocated X2-Camp and the housing estates.
5.    KPC will need to acquire 2 more staff buses.
6.    The present KPC-KWS committee should continue to meet at regular
intervals during all the phases of the Geothermal DeveloDment.
7.    KPC should renovate and expand the existing recreational club anc
upgrade its indoor games facilities. In addition. a new football pitch
should be built.
8.    Adequate road safety measures should be put in olace. a' e,  *- '-
KWS discussions. to ensure the safety of KPO anc K;:S e-:  .ees a-:
visitors to the Hell's Gate National Park.
Interaction with the Park
This summary draws together views developed in a number of spec!ahrst sz:ies  1: s
the consultant's view that the effect of KPC's activities in the Hell's Gate National Pa!..
can be managed so that the outcome is positive, at least in terms of the park's functior
as a tourist attraction. The effects on the conservation function of the park will c'
course not be positive. except to the extent that additional income. from tourists (tha:
KPC's presence may produce). would provide KWS with additional resources tc
undertake its conservation role. However. it is considered that even the inevitable
negative impacts on the conservation function can be managed in a way that will te
acceptable to KWS. Some recommended actions. such as relocation of X2-Camp ana
25



restoration of the area, would serve to partially compensate the park for land lost to the
power station.
The following are recommendations made concerning actions to be undertaken by KPC
to assist in integrating the proposed power station into the park so that the benefits for
tourism are maximised. These recommendations are additional to those made for the
protection of flora, fauna, soils and so on, which have been discussed elsewhere.
1.    KPC and KWS should maintain the formal meeting structure already
established to plan a detailed management strategy for the way in which
the park and the power station should interact and to deal with
management issues as they arise.
2-   KPC should prepare explanatory material on geothermal power generation
to be incorporated in the Hell's Gate National Park's interpretation centre,
which is located near the central tower. This material should be prepared
so that it is compatible in style with the display information already
prepared by KWS.
3.    KPC and KWS should prepare a high quality explanatory leaflet that can
be handed to tourists visiting the park. The leaflet should set out the
following information:
-     the basic park rules and safety precautions that should be
adopted by tourists to protect them from harm or
unpleasant experiences associated with the fauna and
geothermal activities;
-     the locations of major attractions in the park including the
interpretation centre and geothermal power station, and;
-     the facilities available to tourists wishing to find out more
about the power station.
4.    KPC should develop a simple "tourist trail' that could be followed by
visitors interested in this aspect of the park. The trail would lead tourists
to a series of features with high quality. professionally prepared signs
explaining points of interest. The tourist trail could include a well-head, a
separator station. any sites or equipment used in the environmental
monitoring programs (for example meteorological starion. air auality
monitoring station. flower triat areas and so on) and the power station
itself.
5.    KPC should include in the power station design. facilities that will allor.
tourists to inspect the power station without disturbing power station
workers. This should include suitable signs and explanatory material to
ensure that tourist do not visit areas which may be unsafe. or where they
may interfere with the normal running of the power station. Power
station personnel should be briefed on appropriate ways of interacting
*                                with visitors. Guided tours should be provided at set times, or days of
the week, so that it will become known when guided tours are available
26



KPC should conduct all its activities in a way which recognises the status of the land
as a gazetted National Park. This imposes constraints on work-practices that would
not apply in other areas. For example very high standards must be applied concerning
the disposal of rubbish and disused equipment, such as pipes, silencers, building
material. earth-moving equipment and so. Some remedial work needs to be done on
the matter of disused equipment and abandoned sites. All waste disposal areas
(rubbish dumps) should be outside the park boundary. Finally, a significant reduction in
visual impact can be achieved for visitors approaching the park from the north through
the Olkaria Gate entrance by planting trees and shrubs on the western side of the
approach road. Visual impacts looking down on the power station from elevated
viewing point will be very much reduced by carefully selecting "natural' colours for
power station buildings. power line pylons and unburied pipes.
27






