Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2966 KE
Development Credit Agreement
(Energy Sector Reform and Power Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 3, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 2966 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 3, 1998, between  REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated November 15, 1996 from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
improve the Borrower's energy sector (hereinafter called the Program) and declaring 
the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the European Investment Bank (EIB) 
a loan (the EIB Loan) in an amount of approximately 29,000,000 European Currency Units 
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and EIB;
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from Kreiditanstalt für Wiederaufbau 
(KfW) a loan (the KfW Loan) in an amount of approximately 25,000,000 Deutsch Marks to 
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the KfW Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and KfW;
Page  2
(E)
the Kenya Power Company Limited has contracted from the Overseas Economic 
Cooperation Fund (OECF) a loan (the OECF Loan) in an amount equivalent to 
¥6,933,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement (the OECF Loan Agreement) entered into between the Kenya Power 
Company Limited and OECF;
(F)
Part C of the Project will be carried out by the Kenya Power and Lighting 
Company Limited (KPLC), and Part D of the Project will be carried out by the Kenya 
Power Company Limited (KPC), all with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to KPLC and KPC, respectively, a portion 
of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, in the KPLC Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and KPLC, and in the KPC Project Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Association and KPC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is 
not a member of the Association or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit Account, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount 
of the Credit shall be cancelled.”
Page  3
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the period between July 1 and June 30;
(b)
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Energy;
(c)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
September 3, 1992; October 1, 1993; October 14, 1993; April 4, 1995 and April 18, 1995 
between the Borrower and the Association;
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(e)
"KPLC" means the Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited, a limited 
liability company incorporated and operating under the laws of the Borrower, which is 
responsible for the transmission and distribution of electricity;
(f)
"KPC" means the Kenya Power Company Limited, a limited liability company 
incorporated and operating under the laws of the Borrower, which is responsible for 
generation of electricity;
(g)
"KPLC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and KPLC pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
KPLC Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(h)
"KPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and KPC pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the KPC 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(i)
"KPLC Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
Kenya Power and Lighting Company (KPLC), of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the KPLC Project Agreement;
(j)
"KPC Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
Kenya Power Company (KPC), of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the KPC 
Project Agreement;
(k)
“KWS” means the Kenya Wildlife Service, a statutory body established and 
operating under the Borrower’s Wildlife (Conservation and Management) Act, which is 
responsible for managing the Borrower’s wildlife resources;
(l)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the plan dated January 16, 1997 
referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, containing, inter alia, 
work programs, training programs, monitoring and performance indicators and procedures 
to be used for the purposes of implementation of the Project, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, in consultation with, and with the approval of, the 
Association, and such term includes any schedules to the Implementation Plan;
(m)
“PISG” means the Borrower’s Project Implementation Support Group 
established in the Borrower’s Ministry of Energy as of August 1996 to coordinate the 
implementation of the Project;
(n)
“PMT” means the Project Management Team established by KPC as of August 
1996 to coordinate the implementation of Parts D and E of the Project; and
(o)
“Power Investment Program” means the least-cost investment plan in the 
power sector adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Page  4
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eighty-six million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 86,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
US dollars a special deposit account (Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1, commencing October 1, 2007 and ending April 1, 2037. Each 
installment to, and including the installment payable on, April 1, 2017 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
Page  5
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Parts A, B, E and F of the Project through MOE 
with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative and 
financial practices and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other 
resources required for such Parts of the 
Project; and
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower 
shall: (A) cause KPLC to carry out 
Part C of the Project; (B) cause 
KPC to carry out Part D of the Project; (C) 
cause KPLC and KPC to 
perform, in accordance with the provisions of the KPLC 
Project 
Agreement and the KPC Project Agreement, respectively, all the 
obligations of KPLC and KPC therein set forth; (D) take or cause to be taken 
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable KPLC and KPC to perform 
such 
respective obligations; and (E) shall not take or permit to 
be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out, and shall cause the Project to be carried out, in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time 
to time to Categories (1) (a), (3) (b), (5) (b) and (6) (b) of the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to KPLC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and KPLC, under terms and conditions which shall 
Page  6
have been approved by the Association, which shall include, inter alia: (i) an 
interest rate of at least 7.7% per annum, (ii) the principal amount of the KPLC 
Subsidiary Loan to be repaid in 20 years, including a grace period of five years, and 
(iii) the principal amount of the KPLC Subsidiary Loan repayable by KPLC, being the 
equivalent in dollars of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in respect of the above-mentioned Categories, such equivalent to be determined as of 
the date or respective dates of repayment.
(d)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time 
to time to Categories (1) (b), (2), (3) (c), (4), (5) (c) and (6) (c) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to KPC under a subsidiary loan agreement 
to be entered into between the Borrower and KPC under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Association and which shall include: (i) interest payable by 
KPC of at least 7.7% per annum; (ii) repayment by KPC of the principal amount of the 
KPC Subsidiary Loan in 20 years, including a grace period of five years; and (iii) the 
principal amount of the KPC Subsidiary Loan repayable by KPC, being the equivalent in 
dollars of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account in respect of 
the above-mentioned Categories, such equivalent to be determined as of the date or 
respective dates of repayment.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the KPLC Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the KPLC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(f)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the KPC Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the KPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of: (a) Part C of 
the Project shall be carried out by KPLC pursuant to Section 2.03 (a) of the KPLC 
Project Agreement; and (b) Part D of the Project shall be carried out by KPC pursuant 
to Section 2.03 (a) of the KPC Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than March 31 of each year, commencing on March 31, 1998, 
prepare and furnish to the Association for its review, a draft of its investment 
program in the power sector covering a period of five years;
(b)
following a review of each such draft, the Borrower shall adopt a Power 
Investment Program, satisfactory to the Association, for the five-year period in 
question; and
(c)
until the date of adoption of the Power Investment Program and 
Page  7
thereafter, the Borrower shall not carry out any single capital investment in new 
facilities estimated to cost in excess of the equivalent of $10,000,000 (including 
investments by independent power producers) which is not included in the Power 
Investment Program for the period in question, without prior consultation with the 
Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, take all 
necessary measures to ensure that: (a) environmental impact assessments, satisfactory 
to the Association, are carried out for every power project under the Power Investment 
Program, and (b) appropriate mitigation plans are developed and implemented for each 
such project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than September 30, 1998, adopt a 
plan, satisfactory to the Association, for adjusting power tariffs so as to reflect 
the long-run marginal cost of supply and to enable KPC and KPLC to achieve the 
financial targets specified in Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of the KPLC and KPC Project 
Agreements, respectively; and (b) thereafter implement the tariff adjustments in 
accordance with the said plan, including effecting by December 31, 1998 any 
adjustments agreed under the said plan for implementation by that date.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure free 
movement of wildlife within the Olkaria area and between Olkaria and Hells Gate and 
Longonot National Park, in accordance with the agreement dated September 20, 1994 
between KPC and KWS.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A, B, E and 
F of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for 
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
Page  8
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views with regard to the Borrower's power 
pricing policies and its plans in respect of the overall development of the power 
sector.
(b)
In carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall establish an 
autonomous electricity regulatory body which will, amongst other things, establish 
adequate prices for electricity sold by electric companies to: (i) enable KPLC and 
KPC, under conditions of efficient operation at reasonable levels of capacity 
utilization, to cover their operating costs including taxes, earn an adequate return 
on funds invested in such companies, meet their financial obligations and make a 
reasonable contribution to future investment for expansion of capacity, as provided in 
the KPLC and the KPC Project Agreements, respectively; and (ii) subject to the 
achievement of objectives in (i) above, pass on the benefit of declines in the real 
costs of production and supply to consumers through reduction in tariffs in real 
terms.
Section 4.03. Until such time as the autonomous regulatory body referred to in 
Section 4.02 (b) above is established, the Borrower shall take all necessary measures 
to adjust the level and structure of tariffs for electricity on the basis of 
recommendations of the power tariff study referred to in Section 3.07 of this 
Agreement, as agreed with the Association, with the objective of meeting the pricing 
objectives referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
KPLC or KPC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
KPLC Project Agreement or KPC Project Agreement, respectively;
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that KPLC or KPC will be able to perform its obligations under the 
KPLC Project Agreement or KPC Project Agreement, respectively;
(d)
the Memorandum and Articles of Association of KPLC shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of KPLC to perform any of its obligations under the KPLC Project 
Agreement;
(e)
the Memorandum and Articles of Association of KPC shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of KPC to perform any of its obligations under the KPC Project 
Agreement;
(f)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of KPLC or KPC or for the 
suspension of either of their operations;
(g)
the EIB and KfW Loan Agreements shall have failed to become effective by 
Page  9
December 31, 1998, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, 
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes, to 
the satisfaction of the Association, that adequate funds for the Project are available 
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement; and
(h)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement 
providing therefor; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
any event specified in paragraph (h) (i) (B), subject to the proviso in 
subparagraph (ii) of said paragraph (g).
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association, and adopted a plan, 
satisfactory to the Association for future preparation and award of contracts for 
independent power supply projects;
(b)
the Borrower has enacted a new Electric Power Act providing for the 
establishment of an autonomous regulatory body, satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
the KPLC Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the KPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
have been executed between the Borrower and KPLC and KPC, respectively; and
(d)
MOE and KPC have selected consultants for their PISG and PMT, 
respectively, in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the KPLC Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
KPLC and is legally binding upon KPLC in accordance with its terms;
Page  10
(b)
that the KPC Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
KPC and is legally binding upon KPC in accordance with its terms;
(c)
that the KPLC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and KPLC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and KPLC in 
accordance with its terms; and
(d)
that the KPC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and KPC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and KPC in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANCE
22921
Nairobi
MINFIN-KE
For the Association:
International Development 
 Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ Samson K. Chemai
Authorized Representative
Page  11
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   Credit
   % of
  Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
   to be
Category
SDR Equivalent)
  Financed
(1)
Civil works:
(a)
for Part C
560,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures
(b)
for Part D
    17,100,000
50%
of the Project
(2)
Supply and erect
    26,600,000
100% of foreign
for Part D
expenditures
of the Project
(3)
Equipment:
 
100% of foreign 
 expenditures 
and
80% of local
expenditures
(a)
for Parts A and B
 
63,000
of the Project
(b)
for Part C
    6,730,000
of the Project
(c)
for Part E
    6,370,000
of the Project
(4)
Vehicles for
70,000
100% of foreign 
Parts A and C
expenditures and
of the Project
80% of local
expenditures
(5)
Consultants'  
100%
services:
a)
for Parts A and B
    4,850,000
of the Project
b)
for Part C
      490,000
of the Project
c)
for Parts D and E
   15,930,000
of the Project
Page  12
d)
for Part F
      970,000
of the Project
(6)
Training:
 100% 
a)
for Part B
       63,000
of the Project
b)
for Part C
      180,000
of the Project
c)
for Part E
      530,000
of the Project
(7)
Household
      140,000
100%
survey
(8)
Refunding of
           1,390,000
Amounts due
Project
pursuant to
Preparation
Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
(9)
Unallocated
    4,564,000
    _________
TOTAL
   86,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures made prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 260,000 may be made in respect of Category 5 (a) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 30, 1997.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) civil works and goods 
under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent, (b) services of consulting firms 
under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and (c) services of individual 
consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in formulating and 
implementing major policy and institutional reforms aimed at: (i) creating an 
efficient energy sector, (ii) supporting investments needed to meet power demand, and 
(iii) facilitating deregulation of the energy sector and private sector participation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Energy Sector Restructuring and Reform 
1.
Carrying out a study on the restructuring of the power subsector and 
implementing the recommendations of such study. 
Page  13
2.
Carrying out studies of the legal and regulatory regime of the energy sector to 
define changes required for the restructuring of the power sector, facilitating 
private sector investment and improving sector efficiency and establishing an 
autonomous regulatory board and implementing recommendations of such studies. 
3.
Strengthening, through the provision of technical assistance and training, the 
capacity of MOE in negotiations with the independent power producers for the 
development of Kipevu II and Olkaria III power plants, including preparation and 
evaluation of bid documents.
Part B:
Institutional Support
1.
Providing specialized advisory services to MOE in: (a) overall Project 
implementation, (b) devising and implementing a deregulation strategy in the petroleum 
sector, (c) mobilizing resources for financing the Program, and (d) carrying out 
prefeasibility and feasibility studies and preparing tender documents for activities 
under the Program. 
2.
Training of MOE staff in the monitoring of petroleum industry activities and in 
demand-side management. 
3.
Acquisition of vehicles, computers, facsimile and photocopying machines and 
other office equipment for MOE’s PISG. 
4.
Carrying out a study to develop uniform standards for LPG cylinders, valves, 
pressure regulators and associated testing, monitoring and regulatory arrangements. 
5.
(a)
Carrying out a study on quality guidelines for photovoltaic equipment and 
related organizational regulatory framework for the monitoring and application of 
minimum standards.
(b)
Carrying out an information campaign to disseminate information on 
photovoltaic systems.
6.
Carrying out a household energy strategy study, including: (a) surveys on energy 
use, (b) survey of energy supply and marketing, and (c) a study on policy, 
institutions and pricing with respect to household energy. 
7.
Establishing demand-side management teams and programs.
8.
Facilitating the development, by independent power producers, of:
(a)
one 64 MW geothermal power plant on the southwestern part of the Olkaria 
field, including the erection of a 132 KV transmission line between the second and the 
third Olkaria plants; and
(b)
one 75 MW diesel electric power plant at Kipevu. 
9.
Carrying out a study on efficiency standards and a labelling program for 
electrical appliances and motors and a mechanism for the implementation of such a 
program. 
10.
Implementing environmental mitigation measures with respect to power plants to 
be constructed under the Program.
Part C:
Efficiency Improvements 
1.
Assisting KPLC in establishing demand-side management teams and programs. 
2.
(a)
Training KPLC staff in areas of demand-side management program design, 
economic analysis, use of computer software, marketing techniques, monitoring and 
evaluation, energy auditing and energy management.
(b)
Acquisition of vehicles and training equipment, including computer 
hardware and software. 
3.
Carrying out a program for providing electricity customers with advisory 
Page  14
services.
4.
Providing specialized advisory services to KPLC in: (a) overall Project 
management, and (b) carrying out prefeasibility and feasibility studies and preparing 
tender documents for activities under the Program. 
5.
Carrying out demonstrations of efficient lighting and equipment, including the 
provision of efficient lights and appliances targeting industrial service and 
residential customers. 
6.
Implementing a program to reduce power losses, including installation of 
capacitors, new substations and feeders, reconductoring of feeders and reinforcement 
of low-voltage systems. 
7.
(a)
Reinforcement and reconductoring of distribution lines, including line 
interconnectors, in the Nairobi area.
(b)
Upgrading and construction of new power substations in the Nairobi area.
(c)
Upgrading of power substations in Mombasa, Nyali, Malindi, Makande, 
Kipevu and Diani.
(d)
Construction of new power substations in the Mombasa and coastal area, 
including associated interconnection lines.
Part D:
Power System Expansion and Upgrading 
1.
Construction of one 75 MW diesel electric power plant at Kipevu. 
2.
Implementation of environmental mitigation measures with respect to power plants 
to be constructed under the Program.
3.
(a)
Construction of one 64 MW geothermal power plant on the northeastern part 
of the Olkaria Geothermal Field, including: (i) erection of a 220 KV transmission 
line, (ii) construction of substations to connect into the Nairobi grid, and (iii) 
connection of the existing production wells to the power plant.
(b)
Drilling and connection of additional wells for the existing power 
station at Olkaria. 
4.
Construction of one 72.5 MW power generating unit at the Gitaru power station.
5.
Provision of specialized advisory services to KPC in: (a) overall Project 
implementation, and (b) carrying out prefeasibility and feasibility studies and 
preparing tender documents for activities under the Program.
Part E:
Geothermal Resource Assessment
Carrying out an assessment of geothermal resources in the Borrower’s territory, 
including:
(a)
carrying out a feasibility and drilling program in the northwestern and 
central areas of the Olkaria Geothermal Field, and
(b)
carrying out advanced prefeasibility studies at Olkaria Domes and Suswa, 
and prefeasibility studies at Longonot and Menangai.
Part F:
Studies for Preparation of Future Projects
Carrying out studies for the preparation of future projects to be carried out 
under the Program.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  15
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for civil works and supply and erect contracts estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $10,000,000 or more per contract shall be prequalified in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(d)
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
(e)
Preshipment Inspection
Goods procured in accordance with Part A shall be exempt from preshipment 
inspection of price.
(f)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract to cost $10,000,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to 
large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Civil works under Part C.7 of the Project estimated to cost $200,000 
equivalent or less per contract, and $800,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, and 
$200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  16
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, and $200,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual consultants’ services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth 
in Section V of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
Page  17
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall, and shall cause KPLC and KPC to, implement the Project in 
accordance with the procedures set out in the Project Implementation Plan, and, except 
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any 
provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
2.
MOE shall be responsible for the overall coordination of the Project, including, 
inter alia, overseeing the sector policy reform program, coordinating the sector-wide 
expenditure programs between KPLC and KPC and coordinating financial assistance to the 
Program. 
3.
Reviews
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
not later than March 31 of each year, commencing on March 31, 1998, 
undertake, in conjunction with the Association, a joint annual review on all matters 
relating to the progress of the Project and, in particular, the progress achieved by 
the Borrower during the current fiscal year having regard to the monitoring indicators 
referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph;
(c)
not later than one month prior to each annual review, shall furnish to 
the Association for its comments a report in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request on the progress of the Project;
(d)
following each annual review, act promptly and diligently in order to 
take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in 
the implementation of the Project or to implement such measures as may have been 
agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project; and
(e)
promptly after the Effective Date, take all measures necessary on its 
part to organize, in conjunction with the Association, a workshop for the launching of 
the Project implementation, which shall cover, inter alia, disbursement and 
procurement procedures and detailed timetables for the implementation of the Project. 
Page  18
4.
Midterm Review
(a)
Not later than June 30, 2000, the Borrower shall carry out jointly with 
the Association, KPLC and KPC a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out 
the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review). 
The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things:
(i)
the status of progress in restructuring the power subsector and in 
the 
operation of the electricity regulatory board referred to in 
Section 4.02 (b) 
of this Agreement;
(ii)
the outcome of the Borrower’s efforts to attract private sector 
investment in 
the power sector; and
(iii)
the status of implementation of the physical components of the 
Project as well 
as the studies and training programs.
(b)
The Borrower shall, at least four weeks prior to the Midterm Review, 
furnish to the Association a separate report describing the status of implementation 
of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project implementation 
generally.
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks after the Midterm Review, 
prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, for the further 
implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, 
thereafter, implement such action program.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $2,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 10,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Page  19
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Page  20
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
