Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2966 KE
KPLC Project Agreement
(Energy Sector Reform and Power Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
KENYA POWER AND LIGHTING COMPANY LIMITED
Dated April 3, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 2966 KE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 3, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and KENYA POWER AND LIGHTING COMPANY LIMITED (KPLC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Kenya (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
eighty-six million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR  86,600,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that KPLC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and KPLC, a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be relent to KPLC on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS KPLC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. KPLC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and power transmission and 
distribution practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part C of the 
Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part C of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) KPLC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the KPLC Project 
Agreement and Part C of the Project.
(b)
For purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitation thereto, KPLC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, 
for the future operation of Part C of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 2.04. KPLC shall duly perform all its obligations under the KPLC 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, KPLC shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the KPLC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) KPLC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part C of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the KPLC Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
KPLC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part C of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by KPLC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the KPLC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06.  KPLC shall participate in the Midterm Review referred to in 
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement and shall thereafter implement the 
action plan with respect to Part C of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of KPLC
Page  3
Section 3.01. KPLC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and power transmission and 
distribution practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. KPLC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and power transmission and distribution practices.
Section 3.03. KPLC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) KPLC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, 
in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.
(b)
KPLC shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, KPLC shall 
produce, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on June 30, 1997, 
funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 25% for fiscal year 1997/1998 
and fiscal year 1998/1999 and 30% thereafter of the three-year annual average of 
KPLC's capital expenditures (for that year, the preceding fiscal year and the next 
fiscal year).
(b)
Before December 31, KPLCshall, in each of its fiscal years, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by KPLC and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the 
following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such review upon 
its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that KPLC would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for KPLC's fiscal years covered by such review, KPLC shall 
promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer 
deposits and consumer contributions in aid of 
construction and net 
nonoperating income; and
Page  4
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes (excluding provision for 
depreciation and other noncash operating 
charges), debt 
service requirements, all cash dividends, other cash 
distributions of surplus and other cash outflows other than capital 
expenditures.
(ii)
The term "net nonoperating income" means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iii)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(iv)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures on account 
of fixed 
assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to operations.
(v)
Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, KPLC shall 
not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of 
KPLC shows that the estimated net revenues of KPLC for each fiscal year during the 
term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service 
requirements of KPLC in such year on all debt of KPLC, including the debt to be 
incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of KPLC maturing by its 
terms more than 
one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
nonoperating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, 
other noncash operating charges 
and interest and other charges on 
debt.
(iv)
The term "net nonoperating income" means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
Page  5
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by KPLC 
not earlier 
than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both 
the Association and KPLC accept as reasonable 
and as to which the Association 
has notified KPLC of its acceptability, 
provided that no event has occurred 
since such notification which 
has, or may reasonably be expected in the future 
to have, a material 
adverse effect on the financial condition or future 
operating 
results of KPLC.
Section 4.04.  KPLC shall take all necessary measures to ensure that, until 
completion of the Project, its accounts receivable on electricity sales shall be 
maintained at or below 60 days of revenues.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
KPLC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify KPLC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  6
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For KPLC:
Central Office
Electricity House
P.O. Box 30099
Nairobi, Kenya
Telex:
22253
Nairobi
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of KPLC or by 
KPLC on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Managing Director or such other person or persons as the Managing 
Director shall designate in writing, and KPLC shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa 
KENYA POWER AND LIGHTING COMPANY
By /s/ Samson K. Chemai
Authorized Representative
