Page  1
Aceh Forest and Environment Project, ESMF, p.1
 
DRAFT 
Environmental and Social Management Framework 
"Integrating Environment and Forest Protection into the 
Recovery and Future Development of Aceh. Sumatra, Indonesia” 
 
Introduction 
 
The present Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) is an update and an expansion of 
Annex 4 of the Project Appraisal Document dated February 9, 2006. This ESMF is being prepared and 
disclosed at the time of project restructuring.   
 
The project restructuring includes changes in the Project to: a) incorporate a revised results framework for 
grants to both entities that implement the project (Leuser International Foundation/TF056197 and Fauna & 
Flora International/TF056198); and b) reallocate budget more than 10% of the grant agreement with Fauna 
&
Flora International/TF056198).   
 
The reallocation of the resources administered by FFI will enable to improve the project social and 
environmental sustainability by intensifying the project’s support to community rangers, community 
response units, support to environmental education and livelihoods, and project management.  
 
The reallocation will result in transferring resources from some activities listed under Part B.2 of the 
Project (development of environmental and conservation education and awareness programs, and 
community development initiatives, including provision of facilities and equipment) to Part A.2 of the 
Project (strengthening forest monitoring and protection systems and procedures).  One of the activities 
under Part B.2, education and livelihood, will be also strengthened.  Overall, Project Part B.2 will be 
reduced in size in that a conservation and awareness center initially planned will not be built. All other 
activities will continue 
as planned.  
Based on Bank’s supervision reports, no significant environmental and social issues have been encountered 
during project implementation since early 2007 and no significant environmental and social issues are 
outstanding at the time of restructuring. The proposed budget re-allocation does not include new types of 
activities which would require a change in the original environmental categorization (B).  And there is no 
major change in the project which would alter the overall project risk or demand the preparation of new 
safeguard instruments.
 
Project Description 
This project aims to deal with the threat of increased logging to supply the reconstruction of Aceh, and to 
ensure a year-round supply of water for the rehabilitation of Aceh, through strengthening forest protection in 
the Leuser Ecosystem and the Ulu Masen forest complex. The project will be implemented by the Leuser 
International Foundation (LIF) and Fauna and Flora International (FFI) with the World Bank acting as 
Partner Agency. 
Indonesia's Aceh Reconstruction Master Plan specifically mentions the need for conservation of forest 
functions and preservation of environmental services. The reconstruction process will increase demand 
for natural resources, potentially increasing threats from illegal logging and forest clearing. This project 
seeks to strengthen forest protection for the Leuser and Ulu Masen ecosystems to mitigate these threats 
and maintain critical environmental services for the people of Aceh, ensuring that the reconstruction and 
future development of Aceh is sustainable. The project will also help to establish environmental 
safeguards for the reconstruction process through dissemination of environmentally sound reconstruction 
guidelines and helping reconstruction agencies identify, manage, and mitigate environmental impacts 
arising from the reconstruction process. A broad based multi-stakeholder consultation and consensus 
process will be used to develop approaches for effective, efficient and sustainable forest protection on the 
E2551
Page  2
Aceh Forest and Environment Project, ESMF, p.2
 
ground. 
These initiatives will help to integrate environmental and conservation considerations into local and 
provincial spatial and reconstruction planning processes. Finally, the project will support community based 
rehabilitation of areas of the Leuser and Ulu Masen ecosystems where forest cover has been seriously 
degraded or damaged by illegal and unsustainable logging and agricultural encroachment. This responds to 
the need to reverse the loss of forest cover, which has led to reduced environmental services and increased 
risk of flooding and landslides. Rehabilitation also addresses the future need for sustainably produced 
timber and other forest products, and forest-related livelihoods. 
The project goal is: Environmental services provided by Aceh's forests (Leuser and Ulu Masen 
ecosystems) are maintained for sustainable reconstruction and development. The purpose is: The Leuser 
and Ulu Masen ecosystems are effectively protected. The project objectives are: 
„
Sustainable multi-stakeholder forest protection processes and systems are designed and 
implemented. 
„
Conservation and environment considerations are integrated into Aceh's reconstruction and 
development planning processes and plans. 
„
Degraded forest lands within the Leuser and Ulu Masen ecosystems are rehabilitated and 
managed by local communities. 
The project will seek to achieve improved forest protection through a process of local participation in land 
use planning and forest area zoning. Consultations with traditional community structures at mukim and 
village level will help in preparation of local land management plans that clarify land use zones, 
recognize forest protection status, and establish local groups involved in forest monitoring and protection. 
Geographic Setting. 
The area to be addressed covers 3.3 million ha in Aceh province. The southern 
portion is within the Leuser Ecosystem, surrounding the Leuser National Park, and protected under 
authorities spelled out in a Presidential decree. The northern portion is within the Ulu Masen Forest 
Complex, an area of forest zoned for watershed protection. These two areas form a forested continuum 
from Singkil in the South to Lhok Nga in the North contain probably the richest assemblage of terrestrial 
biological diversity left in South East Asia. Most of the area is rugged and mountainous terrain that 
provides habitat for Sumatran tigers, rhinos, elephants and endemic bird species. The adjacent lowlands 
and swamp forests in the south host one of the largest remaining populations of Sumatran orangutans. 
Much of the area is not suitable for agricultural use because of steep slopes and poor soils (on karst). 
Social Setting. 
The project will work in 158 Kecamatans (sub districts) within Aceh Besar, Aceh Jaya, 
Aceh Barat Daya, Aceh Barat, Nagan Raya, Aceh Selatan, Aceh Singkil,Pidie, Aceh Utara. The project 
will provide direct benefits and livelihood opportunities for 50 villages and environmental services for 
more than 3000 villages. 
Before the tsunami, Aceh was an area of armed conflict. The project area includes several areas where 
forests were 'off-limits' for security reasons. The recently concluded peace agreement creates both 
opportunities and threats for conservation and sustainable development. With the reduction of conflict 
and increased safety, there is a probability that access to forests, encroachment and forest exploitation 
could increase. With the increase in development assistance and efforts at reintegration, there is a 
possibility that community level consultations and planning processes could produce sustainable land and 
forest use plans, supplemented with improved livelihood opportunities in non-forest areas. 
After the earthquake and tsunami of December 2004, many areas within and adjacent to the project 
location were heavily affected by tsunami destruction and salinization. Many farmers' livelihoods have 
been devastated due to debris and sediment on agricultural lands. Land tenure claims were also affected 
by the tsunami. Only a small share of land in the area was legally titled before the wave, and now most of 
the title deeds and records have been destroyed. This raises the specter of a scramble for land. As village 
lands directly border on protected forest areas, the absence of livelihood options and equitable access to 
land may lead to agricultural encroachment as well as illegal logging to respond to demand for timber for 
reconstruction. The steep terrain in the area raises real concerns that deforestation will trigger landslides 
and flooding. Indeed, some community leaders expressed concern about this during project appraisal 
meetings. Other communities (e.g., Aceh Selatan) have already taken steps to protect forested areas due 
Page  3
Aceh Forest and Environment Project, ESMF, p.3
 
to experience with catastrophic flooding in the past. They are interested to maintain and improve forest 
protection and to resist efforts to renew or increase forest exploitation, especially as this is not seen to 
provide economic benefits to the local population. 
The recovery and future development of Aceh will be unsustainable without provision of ecological 
services by the forests of Aceh, including the supply of clean water for industrial, agricultural and 
domestic consumption, flood prevention, erosion mitigation, pest control, climate regulation, and carbon 
sequestration. 
World Bank Policy Context 
The World Bank's safeguards policies on involuntary resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) and Indigenous Peoples
1
(OD 4.10) will, where appropriate, be applied to this project. As a forest protection project, one aim is to 
demarcate and zone areas for conservation, so this project does trigger paragraph 3(b) of the resettlement 
policy, which applies to loss of access, income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected 
people must move to another location. The coastal Acehnese in the main areas of project work are not 
recognized as a distinct indigenous group. Nevertheless, the design of the project recognizes the need to 
conduct awareness raising activities, recruitment and training in locally appropriate language. The project 
itself qualifies as an indigenous people's safeguard, involving extensive community consultation 
processes, participatory and collaborative efforts to design project interventions.' 
1
1
One group in the remote highlands of the Leuser Ecosystem (Gayo-Alas People) may be classified as Indigenous 
Peoples. The project is not planning activities in this area, as it is mainly concerned with the tsunami impact zone in 
the low lands and encroachment and threats associated with the reconstruction process in the coastal lowlands. If 
activities are conducted in this area, interactions with communities will follow the consultative and participatory 
processes identified elsewhere and documented in this "process framework." 
Page  4
Aceh Forest and Environment Project, ESMF, p.4
 
In compliance with World Bank policies, project preparation has already included community level 
fieldwork to assess the local context and initiate a process of consultation toward participatory decision- 
making with local communities. This framework describes further activities to be undertaken during project 
implementation to ensure that the project satisfies the requirements of the World Bank's safeguards policies. 
It is the intention of the project to find an appropriate balance between protecting the rich biodiversity and 
forest ecosystems of the Ulu Masen and Leuser Ecosystems and providing economic benefits to local 
communities. The project will work with local government and traditional Acehnese community leadership 
structures 
(mukim 
and associations thereof) to establish village level representative groups to be involved in 
decision making relevant to forest zonation and land use recognition. 
These groups will be engaged in negotiating the establishment of land use zones including delineating those 
forest areas able to be exploited by local communities from those forest areas designated specifically for 
conservation purposes. Community Conservation Agreements will be drawn up following an intensive 
period of community consultation and agreement. The project will assist the communities to obtain official 
recognition of such agreements through the local government authorities, as well as provincial and national 
forest management agencies. This consultation process and the resulting agreements are intended to 
increase tenure security for local community land uses. Regulations ultimately agreed to between local 
communities and relevant government agencies and developed with appropriate technical input provided by 
this project, will secure an important long term livelihood source for local communities while stabilizing 
forest areas in Ulu Masen and Leuser Ecosystem. 
The Project will not require involuntary physical displacement or relocation of people. Furthermore, local 
forest zoning and management plans would avoid including new restrictions that would adversely affect 
community livelihoods. Potential impacts on livelihoods are expected to be minimal for the following 
reasons: 
„
Community use of forested areas has been minimal due to conflict. 
„
Forested areas are steep and inaccessible. 
„
There are currently restrictions on use of these areas because of the existing protected forest 
status and conservation status. 
„
Zoning and access rules will be worked out through an extensive consultation process, so that any 
areas of active or fallow use can be excluded from conservation zones, reducing still further the 
likelihood that any restrictions would affect livelihoods. 
In fact, it is quite likely that zoning processes or land use mapping introduced through the project would 
actually increase opportunities for communities, by establishing and institutionalizing rules of access and 
communal or individual ownership and obtaining acknowledgement of this access and uses from local, 
district and provincial government. Nonetheless, new or increased restrictions of access to natural 
resources may be needed to ensure sustainability of the envisioned protected area. In some cases, changes 
in zoning may adversely impact livelihoods. The specific potential restrictions cannot be known until the 
local management plans and protected area plans are developed during implementation, at which time the 
type of measures necessary to mitigate adverse impacts of those restrictions would be determined in 
consultation with the project-affected groups (and in accordance with this process framework). 
Process Framework (Social) 
As required by the Bank's policy on involuntary resettlement, this Process Framework outlines the 
criteria and procedures that will be followed in cases where project-induced involuntary restriction of 
access to forest resources results in adverse livelihood impacts, to ensure that eligible, affected persons 
are assisted in their efforts to restore or improve their livelihoods while maintaining the environmental 
sustainability of the protected forest area. The objectives of the Framework are: 
Page  5
Aceh Forest and Environment Project, ESMF, p.5
 
1. 
To ensure that project benefits to local communities are culturally sensitive and are seen as being 
both appropriate and acceptable to the communities who are identified as key stakeholders in the 
management of forests; 
2. 
To ensure full consultation and participation of local people, identified as being most relevant to the 
management of local forests; 
3. 
To avoid, minimize or mitigate potentially adverse effects of new restrictions and increased 
enforcement of access to natural resources upon local communities that depend on these 
resources. 
The principles laid out to address each of the above points are: 
„
The recognition of new and existing forest boundaries, introduction of forest resource use 
regulations and increased enforcement capacity to be based on bio-physical as well as socio-
economic assessments. 
„
All decision-making related to establishment of forest boundaries, forest resource use regulations 
and increased enforcement will be based on the informed participation of people living in the area. 
This will take the form of community level consultations and the formalization of agreements 
reached involving those communities participating in the project, project staff and relevant 
government authorities; 
„
Restrictions on forest resource use that are seen as adversely affecting the livelihood of local people 
will be mitigated by the project to ensure that affected people can find alternative or improved 
livelihood opportunities. 
Process Followed During Preparation.
During development of the project concept, many and varied 
consultations have already taken place with local communities, local governments and traditional 
governance institutions. FFI and LIF have each been active in their respective areas for many years and 
the organizations approaches and practices are well known to local communities. In addition, because 
much of the area is in the tsunami impact zone, a wealth of information is available on socio-economic 
status, social situation and health on the E-Aceh website (citation). These early consultations provided 
important input to the design and laid the foundation for continuing consultations during implementation. 
For example, after consultation with local governments, the livelihood component of the project was 
expanded to ensure that the project had sufficient resources to provide positive livelihood incentives for 
communities, in exchange for recognition or elevation of conservation status of local forest areas. 
Community and local government demand for the services provided by this project, including patrolling 
and enforcement of forest encroachment, were confirmed through local government meetings during the 
appraisal mission, September 27-30, 2005. 
Process to be Followed During Implementation.
The process to be followed during project 
implementation will include the following key components: 
1. 
Participatory Initial Assessments. 
Following on introductory meetings and discussions with local 
communities, initial assessments will be undertaken to help the project develop a better understanding 
of: (a) the social and geographic setting of the communities and their economic and social problems; 
(b) the types and extent of community use of forest resources, including any local or traditional 
resource use patterns or rules; (c) the communities' threats to and impacts on forest resources in the 
post-tsunami/reconstruction phase; (d) the potential livelihood impacts (if any) of new or more strictly 
enforced restrictions on forest use in target areas; (e) communities' suggestions and/or view on 
possible mitigation measures; and (f) potential conflicts over the use of natural resources, and 
methods for solving potential conflicts. These assessments will serve as an input into the 
development of protected area plans, community agreements, and participatory monitoring programs 
for the target areas. These assessments will be conducted by employing traditional institutions and 
leaders, as well as officials from local government, staff from the project engaged in forest 
monitoring and protection, and local community development and advocacy NGOs working in the 
Page  6
Aceh Forest and Environment Project, ESMF, p.6
 
area. FFI and LIF are already members of the Aceh LSM Forum and communicate regularly with 
working groups on livelihoods, settlements, etc. working on the West Coast of Aceh. These 
relationships will be helpful in determining social issues and needs early in project development. 
These local traditional groups and NGO networks will be useful for coordination, technical advice, 
review of community agreements, and resolving conflicts that may arise during project 
implementation. Early consultations and facilitation processes will enable the project to target 
specific groups, such as IDPs, illegal loggers, or women and the poor. Community facilitators will be 
trained to ensure that gender issues are addressed and that women's voices are heard in the 
consultation processes. Traditional (e.g., religious, 
arisan) 
or commercial (small business 
associations) women's groups will be sought out and consulted, where they exist. 
2. Beneficiaries and Eligibility. 
Communities living adjacent to forest areas addressed by this project 
will be among the key beneficiaries of the projects interventions and programs. Short run project 
benefits will include livelihood improvements from community development, job training, and 
improved agroforestry practices resulting directly from Component 3, which promotes livelihood 
activities and community engagement in land rehabilitation and management. Longer term benefits 
will be associated with better recognized, documented and legalized access to forest resources. 
Specifically, those members of communities whose livelihoods are affected by resource restrictions 
and/or improved enforcement (if any) will be provided assistance (mitigation measures) to maintain 
or improve their livelihoods. To achieve this the project will work closely with both traditional as 
well as government appointed community leaders from each of the communities in the target area. 
Both FFI and LIF have reported success in hiring park/forest rangers from among the people using 
forest resources illegally. As noted previously, there are no populations within the project study area 
that may be described as 'indigenous.' 
3. Ongoing Dialogue Processes Feeding into Local Assessments and Co-Management Plans. 
Ongoing 
dialogue processes established and maintained by the project staff will be coupled with assessment 
approaches to ensure regular feedback from communities as project plans and activities develop. 
Dialogue will employ regular community gatherings, supplemented by landscape assessment, 
discussions with key informants, and semi-structured interviews with local leaders. These dialogue 
processes will also be supplemented with analysis of satellite images to identify historical land use 
patterns and changes in forest cover in the project area. These assessments will be used as a basis for 
establishing collaborative forest management arrangements between local communities and local 
government agencies responsible for the effective management and conservation of these forests. 
These assessments will feed into most other activities of the project, and identify further scope for co-
management activities. Ongoing dialogue processes with local communities will provide input to the 
awareness-raising strategy, help to define appropriate measures for implementing resource use 
restrictions and mitigation measures, help to determine appropriate enforcement procedures and 
thresholds, and provide channels for regular feedback relevant to monitoring and evaluation of the 
project and its forest management goals. Local stakeholder groups, formed as a result of ongoing 
dialogue, will be formed in a representative fashion, will assist in preparation of local co-management 
agreements, and will serve as partners of local governance structures in the implementation and 
enforcement of these agreements. 
4. Consultation Principles. 
Consultation with local communities will be critical to enabling effective 
social assessment and successful forest protection to be undertaken. Such consultation will be 
necessary to determining community managed forest boundaries, as well as determining levels of 
access to forests and resource use restrictions likely to be implemented over the course of the project. 
Decisions affecting community access to and use of forest resources will be made only following the 
full participation and support of the affected communities. In order for meaningful consultation and 
participation to take place, the following principles will be adhered to: 
Page  7
Aceh Forest and Environment Project, ESMF, p.7
 
„
Information dissemination will be in the local languages and using visual, oral and other 
appropriate means of communication in communities in target areas; 
„
Recognized religious/cultural and politically-appointed leaders will be consulted regularly; 
„
Appropriate consultation methods will be established to ensure participation of Internally 
Displaced Persons (IDPs), women, and other groups with special needs; 
„
Cultural beliefs and traditions regarding forest resource use and conservation will be used as 
appropriate entry points; 
„
Representatives from local NGOs and universities will help facilitate the consultation process. 
5. Mitigation. 
It is anticipated that few members of local communities will be adversely impacted by 
this project. This is because the project does not primarily seek to prevent access to forest resources 
but to limit and regulate such resource use to ensure no further forest loss. However, the project may 
seek to prevent access to certain resources or certain areas through zoning. Also, access to specific 
species may be curtailed or prevented. The project will also employ appropriate, participatory 
marking of forest boundaries. When this project does identify adverse impacts 
—
or a need to change 
livelihood strategies (e.g., illegal loggers), local community members will be directly assisted to take 
up alternate livelihood opportunities, which may be sponsored by the project or other NGOs and 
development agencies working in the area. Community development activities (e.g., nursery 
development, provision of seed stock, assistance in land rehabilitation) will be targeted to community 
members who are most vulnerable or most likely to engage in forest encroaching activities, unless 
otherwise employed. The project will ensure that community members identified will be assisted 
with remedial measures necessary to maintain or improve their incomes or living standards. Further, 
appropriate mitigation measures will be identified with the participation of the affected communities. 
6.  Local Co-Management Plans. 
Based upon appropriate scientific input, social assessments and a 
detailed consultation process, project staff will seek to facilitate target communities (at 
mukim 
level) 
in the development of local co-management plans, including land use recognition and forest resource 
use plans or restrictions. These local plans will become part of the regional spatial plan toward 
creation of a more formalized protected area, at least in the Ulu Masen Ecosystem portion of the 
project area. LIF has a long tradition of developing these kinds of agreements with communities 
bordering the Leuser Ecosystem. These local plans will identify: (i) Forest boundaries for community 
uses; (ii) Regulations and restrictions pertaining to forest resource use; (iii) Measures to be 
undertaken to assist the affected people in maintaining or improving their livelihoods; (iv) 
Implementation arrangements and a mechanism for dealing with conflict at the community level; (v) 
An ongoing monitoring program against which resource use levels can be measured and evaluated for 
both sustainability and compliance. 
7. Conflict resolution. 
The risk of conflict arising between local communities and the project and 
between different communities themselves may need to be addressed over the course of the project. 
A
two-fold mechanism will be established, with both proactive and reactive elements for resolution of 
conflicts and grievances that might arise. Recognizing that many conflicts arise due to differences in 
understanding and perceptions, a 
proactive approach 
will be adopted to avoid conflicts before they 
start. This approach would promote a common understanding through: (a) community conservation 
education and public awareness regarding values of biodiversity conservation, threats to the forest, 
and options for mitigating these threats; (b) wide-spread disclosure of the project's purposes, plans 
and background information; (c) ongoing consultation processes, as noted above, and (d) clarification 
of the duties and responsibilities of all stakeholders in the process. Conflicts that do arise will be 
dealt with through a 
reactive approach 
of conflict resolution and grievance redress mechanisms that 
will be developed in culturally appropriate ways through traditional institutions (e.g., mukim and 
religious institutions). Regular consultation meetings will provide an opportunity for local grievances 
to be aired and recorded. As well, the project will maintain a complaints handling unit in Banda Aceh 
and in each project area. Contact information for the unit will be distributed widely at project 
Page  8
Aceh Forest and Environment Project, ESMF, p.8
 
intervention sites, community notice boards, and on the internet. Project facilitators will be present at 
such meetings acting with neutrality and reporting grievances aired and conflict situations back to 
local leaders, local government structures, and the project's governance structure (e.g., steering 
committee). All communities participating in the project will be informed of these conflict resolution 
mechanisms, and all documentation of complaints and monitoring of the resolution process will be 
carefully undertaken. 
 
Process Framework (Environmental
)
Physical cultural resources.
This project will not affect any man-made cultural property. However, it is 
possible that the project could encounter forest areas of unique spiritual or traditional value in the 
course of community mapping and zonation. These areas could be classed as cultural property, as is 
the case with 'spirit forests' in Vietnam. The community consultation process envisioned by the 
project will identify these areas (if any) and strive to have them zoned appropriately so that traditional 
community uses can be continued. The project proponents have experience with similar situations in the 
southern parts of Aceh (e.g., spirits in swamp forest aided protection measures) and will document the 
procedures to be used in these cases in the "process framework," to be developed (described above). The 
identification of cultural property will be an asset to the project enabling additional reasons for forest 
protection activities consistent with the communities' own beliefs and desires. No special surveys or 
assessments will be required because (a) any special sites will be identified in the community consultation 
process and (b) the project's objective is to protect these areas, not convert, change or threaten them.
 
Environmental Assessment
.
The project is designed primarily to protect forest lands and produce 
conservation benefits. One aim of the project is to demarcate, zone, and patrol protected forest areas, using 
participatory community consultation processes. This triggers some of the social safeguards. However, 
because the entire project is designed to achieve voluntary community-level and local government 
agreement and buy in to the zonation process, it is expected that the project procedures will be sufficient to 
address any concerns raised (see below). The project will promote community livelihoods on existing or 
rehabilitated agricultural lands, but will not promote any forest conversion or even opening of new 
agricultural lands. There will be a few micro-scale construction projects (e.g., visitor/education center), 
for which any negative impacts can be easily mitigated through proper design, siting, and sourcing of 
materials. Because of the small scale of these works, an Environmental Assessment should not be 
required in advance, but Standard Operation Procedures will be used. The local implications of the 
construction should be nevertheless investigated and community consensus developed. As one of the 
objectives of the project is to mainstream environmental assessment and mitigation into the Aceh 
reconstruction and recovery process, the project proponents will use these small scale construction 
projects as showcase models of appropriate methods.
 
Natural Habitats. 
The project will operate in areas of forest and natural habitat in order to protect 
them. The objectives of the project are fully consistent with the objectives of the policy. The actions of 
forest ranger patrols and the siting of forest conservation infrastructure (small guard facilities) will be 
evaluated and monitored to ensure that any potential micro-level impacts are minimized and properly mitigated 
as thoroughly as possible. (see also Forests, below). 
The standard operating procedures should technically 
justify any mitigation measures when conducting project related activities within (non critical) natural habitats 
through avoiding or minimizing damage to natural habitats to the extent feasible.   The project will not allow any 
significant conversion or degradation of any critical natural habitats, including those habitats that are (a) legally 
protected, (b) officially proposed for protection (c) identified by authoritative sources for their high conservation 
value, or (d) recognized as protected by traditional local communities. Whenever feasible, give preference to 
sitting projects/activities on lands already converted. Consult key stakeholders, including local ngos and local 
communities, and involve such people in design, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of proposed 
activities. 
 
Forests. 
The project will operate in areas of forest and natural habitat in order to protect them. The 
Page  9
Aceh Forest and Environment Project, ESMF, p.9
 
objectives of the project are fully consistent with the objectives of the policy. No forest lands will be 
converted or negatively impacted as a result of project activities. In fact, the project aims to preserve 
large areas of intact forest and rehabilitate some small areas of tsunami affected forests. The actions of 
forest ranger patrols and the siting of forest conservation infrastructure (small guard facilities) will be 
evaluated and monitored to ensure that any potential micro-level impacts are minimized as thoroughly as 
possible. (see also Natural Habitats, above.) 
The standard operating procedures should technically justify any 
mitigation measures when conducting project related activities within natural forest areas through avoiding or 
minimizing damage to natural forests to the extent feasible.   Screen as early as possible for potential impacts on 
forest health and quality and on the rights and welfare of the people who depend on them.  The project will not 
involve any significant conversion or degradation of critical forest areas and will ensure that forest restoration 
projects maintain or enhance biodiversity and ecosystem functionally.
 
Staffing 
The project will employ 1 full-time community relations officer in each of the two geographic locations. 
Under the Community Relations Officer, there will be 2-4 Area Community Relations staff and 2-4 
Community Facilitators. These field agents will be based in the specific districts that are the focus of project 
activities (which may change in emphasis over time). Field and community relations will also be assisted 
by a Spatial Planning Team (Field officer and Assistant) and a Forest Rehabilitation Team (Officer and 
Assistant) in each location (Leuser Ecosystem and Ulu Masen Ecosystem). These groups will work directly 
with affected villagers in target communities. Rehabilitation Communication and consultation processes 
will also be assisted by an Outreach, Education and Awareness team of three, supplemented by individual 
consultants for specialized purposes. These field teams will report to the Area Management Unit Director, 
who will report to the Management Coordinating Body and the Steering Committee. 
Monitoring and Evaluation 
Monitoring for project evaluation will include baseline data based upon both existing household surveys 
of tsunami-affected communities (
E-Aceh.com
)
and satellite imagery of forest quality and land use. Case 
studies, community feedback and other instruments will be used to assess general trends in income and 
living standards as well as possible impacts of the project on local communities. An evaluation of the 
implementation of this Framework will be included in the independent mid-term review. 
Roles and Responsibilities 
Overall responsibility for the implementation of this Framework lies with the Project Coordination Unit, 
based in Banda Aceh, which will oversee project implementation under the guidance of the Steering 
Committee. Within each project area, the Area Management Unit Director will be the officer responsible 
for overseeing field activities, ensuring the dialogue processes with local communities are operating 
properly, and maintaining liaison with local government and traditional leadership groups. For each 
area, a Multistakeholder Advisory Council will be established with representatives from communities, 
traditional leaders, and local government institutions. 
As noted in the Project Appraisal Document, an independent complaint handling unit covering both 
geographic regions will be established in the joint coordination office in Banda Aceh, reporting to the 
Project Coordination Unit and with links to external and sponsoring agencies. The two geographic 
regions will each have a designated complaints handling officer, who will interact with the public and 
report regularly to the Banda Aceh office. Contact information of the project's central and regional 
complaints handling units will be posted on the web-site, distributed through mailing-lists, posted at local 
project activity sites, and made known to the press through release. The executing agencies will report 
regularly to the World Bank and the MDTFANS on the status of complaints processing. 
The Balai KSDA and the regional Forestry Department will be kept informed regularly as the lead 
governmental counterparts for the project. As the project progresses and consultation processes and 
conflict resolution mechanisms are tested, the Project Coordination Unit will assess the need for special 
Page  10
Aceh Forest and Environment Project, ESMF, p.10
 
additional expertise in socio-economic assessment, resource use planning and management, or conflict 
resolution at the community level.
 
