Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18156
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
TARIM BASIN PROJECT
(CREDIT 2294-CN)
June 30, 1998
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
1991               $1 = Y 5.32
1992               $1 = Y 5.42
1993              $1 = Y 5.73
1994               $1=Y8.50
1995              $1=Y8.30
1996              $1=Y8.30
1997               $1=Y8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AH          Animal Husbandry
Al          Artificial Insemination
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
ICR         -Implementation Completion Report
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
O&M         Operations and Maintenance
PMO         Project Management Office
SAR         -Staff Appraisal Report
TBC         Tarim Basin Commission
TRBMB       Tarim River Basin Management Bureau
TRBMC       Tarim River Basin Management Committee
Vice President     Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Sector Manager     Geoffrey Fox, EASRD
Country Director    Yukon Huang, EACCF
Task Manager       Daniel Gunaratnam, Principal Water Resource Specialist, EACCF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE .....................III
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................                                                               .V
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...............................................1
A. Project Objectives and Description .........................................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .........................................................2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ......................2
D. Project Sustainability .........................................................8
E. IDA  Performance .........................................................9
F. Borrower Performance ........................................................                                  10
G. Assessment of Outcome ........................................................                                 11
H. Future Operation ........................................................                                       11
1. Key Lessons Learned ........................................................                                   12
PART  II: STATISTICAL  TABLES ........................................................                                       14
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ........................................................                          14
Table 2: Related Bank Group Loans/Credits ........................................................ 15
Table 3: Project Timetable ........................................................                               16
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual ................. 16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ............................................. 17
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operations .................................................... 24
Table 7: Studies included in Project ........................................................                     25
Table 8a: Project Costs ........................................................                                  26
Table 8b: Project Financing ........................................................                              26
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ........................................................                      27
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ........................................................                      28
Table  11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................ 29
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................................................                    30
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ........................................................                       30
ANNEX  A: ICR  MISSION'S  AIDE  MEMOIRE .......................................................                               31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






- 111 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
TARIM BASIN PROJECT
(CREDIT 2294-CN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Tarim Basin Project,
Credit 2294-CN. The IDA Credit for this project in the amount of SDR 93.8 million
($125 million equivalent) was approved on August 29, 1991 and made effective on
January 22, 1992. The credit was fully disbursed, with the last disbursement taking place
on September 5, 1997 and it closed on December 31, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Daniel Gunaratnam (Principal Water Resource
Specialist) in the China Resident Mission (EACCF), East Asia and Pacific Regional
Office, and reviewed by Geoffrey Fox, Manager, Rural Development and Natural
Resources Sector Unit of the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office (EASRD). The
Borrower has not provided its comments to the final ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission
November 18-30, 1997, and an ICR mission visited the region also during the same
period. The ICR is based on materials in the project file and information provided during
the ICR mission. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by contributing
views reflected in the mission's aide memoire (Annex A) and by preparing its own
evaluation of the project's execution and initial preparation. Since the Borrower's ICR
was too long to be included as an annex and a summary was not provided, the Borrower's
ICR has been deposited in the project files.






v -
CHINA
TARIM BASIN PROJECT
(CREDIT 2294-CN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Description
1.    The main objectives of the project were to support the Government's policy to
speed up the development of China's poorer interior provinces through expansion of the
irrigated area for crop production, improvement of agricultural services, and promotion
of livestock development.
2.    The project also incorporated measures to restore the natural ecology and to
monitor environmentally sound development of the Tarim Basin. The project was
particularly designed to assist ethnic minority herdsmen in raising livestock and to
provide productive employment for women. The main features of the project were as
follows: (a) irrigation and drainage for 200,000 hectares (ha) in the Yerqiang and Weigan
basins; (b) hydropower development in the Yerqiang basin; (c) agricultural support
services development for the Weigan and Yerqiang areas; (d) livestock support services
development for the Weigan and Yerqiang areas; and (e) restoration of the Tarim River
ecosystem.
3.    The objectives were generally well designed, appropriately spelled out in the
project documentation, and supported by all the stakeholders. Similarly, they
appropriately reflected the Government's implementation capacity and were consistent
with the Government's development strategy and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
at the time of preparation.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Essentially all physical targets for irrigation and drainage were achieved, and in
many cases exceeded the targets set out during appraisal of the project. Much of the scope
was expanded during the midterm review and even these revised targets were fulfilled.
5.    The agricultural component also achieved all physical targets and in many cases
exceeded the midterm revised upward plan for construction of experiment stations,
agricultural extension stations, agricultural schools, agricultural machinery training
centers, and seed calibration at county and other levels of governments. Overall
investments in agricultural services and production reached 126 percent of the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) level in Yerqiang and 134 percent in Weigan with some
differences between counties and components. In each county of Yerqiang investments



- vi -
were 100 to 140 percent of the SAR figure. In Weigan investments for each county
ranged from 113 to 141 percent of the SAR estimates.
6.    One of the most innovative components included under the agriculture component
was the hail suppression subcomponent. Hail precipitation causes considerable damages
to the Weigan Prefecture farms. All items for this subcomponent, including works and
equipment procurement, were completed and commissioned by early 1995. The
suppression of hail cloud formation using radar detectors and firing silver iodide crystals
into the clouds worked very well to suppress 80 percent of the hail precipitation.
7.    Overall investments in animal husbandry services and livestock production
reached about 116 percent of the SAR's levels in Yerqiang and 123 percent in Weigan. A
relatively large part of the expenditure is for the establishment of County and Township
Stations. In the Yerqiang counties, investments ranged between 93 and 149 percent, with
investments for County and Township Animal Husbandry Stations in excess of SAR
values in two of the counties. In the counties of Weigan, overall investments ranged
between 121 and 129 percent, with investments in County and Township Stations
exceeding the target by 83 percent. Breeding station investments are above the target.
Mixed Crop/Livestock investments also exceed the target by 43 percent.
8.   IDA performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal was detailed and
has been viewed as satisfactory. Overall, the IDA performance was greatly appreciated by
the provincial government during the preparation phase. IDA's performance in project
supervision has been satisfactory and helped resolve many of the implementation issues
related to designs, financing and management of the project. The performance of the
Borrower's implementation agencies, the Xinjiang Regional Project Management Office
(PMO), in conjunction with prefecture and county PMOs, was generally satisfactory. The
Borrower complied promptly and completely with all the covenants prescribed in the
legal agreements except for the water charge covenant, which needs to be fulfilled by
December 1999. Half-yearly progress reports, audited project accounts together with the
auditors' reports were also regularly produced and received generally on time.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
9.    Overall Findings. The project's overall outcome is viewed as highly satisfactory,
since all the objectives of irrigation and drainage development, and agricultural/animal
husbandry were achieved with a relatively high degree of sustainability. The overall
economic rate of return of 33 percent is impressive and is almost the same as the SAR's
estimate. Overall, the project succeeded in maximizing returns from scarce resources
invested in improvement and expansion of irrigation and drainage systems and the
expansion of agricultural and livestock production. The large increase in the coverage of
extension services, machinery, feed supply and other services has benefited some 350,000
households. Crop yields and livestock production increased substantially from 1991 to
1997 due to the project. Per capita income rose from Y 400-610 in 1991 to Y 1,030-1,5 10
in 1997.



- vii -
10.   A total of 42,000 ha of newly reclaimed land were given to collectives (11
percent), farmers with proven crop production ability (18 percent) and small peasant
farmers (71 percent). Overall, 104,000 households (420,000 people) benefited from
additional farmland in the reclaimed area. Over 82 percent of the households were
minority Uygurs and landholding increased in peasant households by 7.85 mu (0.523 ha),
which is equivalent to 20 percent of their present land area.
11.   The animal husbandry component has improved the coverage of animal health
and production services for livestock belonging to 330,000 livestock owners. Overall
income per head of sheep increased by Y 100.
12.   The project was implemented with minimal negative environmental impact in the
irrigation areas. In both Weigan and Yerqiang there is no evidence of salt accumulation in
the entire agricultural areas because of the drainage schemes. In fact, soils in most
irrigated areas are being desalinized and crop yields are increasing.
13.   Sustainability. The Regional and Prefecture governments are committed to
ensuring sustainability of the project. The Yerqiang and Weigan irrigation schemes have
been in existence for many years and have operated successfully. Farmers have already
realized substantial benefits from the completed works in terms of increased crop
production. Lined canals have assured timely supply of water to farms while the drainage
system has prevented salinization of soils. Detailed operations and maintenance (O&M)
plans for the irrigation schemes have evolved over a 20-year period of operation. Water
charges have increased from 0.2 fen/cubic meter (ni3) to 1.2 fen/m3 between 1993 and
1996 and these charges are sufficient for initial O&M. However, water charges will
increase to about 4.8 fen/m3 by December 1999 to recover all the operating, maintenance
and capital costs. Drainage schemes will also be managed by the counties under their
water resources management offices, and there is already a collection of Y 2/mu from
cultivated areas for routine and major maintenance of drainage systems.
14.   Agricultural sustainability is assured because extension services have increased
dramatically since the project. High-yielding seed production and processing stations
have also been established in every county to provide high-quality seed to farmers.
Farmers pay for all services and the payments are sufficient to maintain these services.
15.   Animal husbandry services are sustainable since farmers have realized the value
of these services and there is a huge demand. Costs for these services are all recovered
through charges. All costs of veterinary services provided from each Township Station
and Substation are recovered by charges that include preventive vaccinations, for which
livestock owners pay.
16.   Future Operations. The future operations of the project will require: first, the
completion of all the unfinished on-farm structures on about 25 percent of the newly
reclaimed areas by mid-1999. Second, water charges will have to be raised from
1.2 fen/m3 to 4.8 fen/m3 by December 1999 to ensure O&M is fully funded and there is
full cost recovery.



- VIII -
17.   The Regional Government should complete the evaluation of the seed production
and processing enterprises with a view to corporatizing and commercializing these
entities so that they are financially autonomous. The Regional Government should also
undertake, by the end of 1998, special training for the financial staff at all levels in these
seed enterprises given their current weakness in financial management skills.
18.   IDA will continue to monitor the operation of project activities in conjunction
with the supervision of the Tarim Basin II Project.
19.   Lessons Learned. The key lessons learned are summarized below.
(a)   The project increased crop yields by 20 to 47 percent in the stable areas
and 68 to 118 percent in low-yield areas during the project's
implementation period of six years. All the project's target yields at full
development were matched or exceeded even before the project was
completed. The lesson learned is that good irrigation and drainage
systems, improved agricultural services and inputs can be immediately
utilized by farmers to generate large increases in crop yields and
production.
(b)   The building of drainage systems concurrent with the irrigation systems
has brought a great deal of benefit to ensure the desalinization of soils and
therefore the stabilization of crop yields. The institutions for the
maintenance of these drains through drainage management stations should
be expanded to cover drains at main, branch and tertiary levels. Fee
collection by drainage districts is an excellent idea and should be
expanded to all counties.
(c)    The project experience has shown that farmers are becoming increasingly
market-oriented and are very receptive to extension service demonstrations
and advice. This attitude places a heavy responsibility on the extension
service to ensure that technical packages given to farmers represent the
most cost-effective and least risk-development possibilities.
(d)   Development of the mixed crop/livestock and fodder base components
was successful and served as an example to other livestock-owning
families. The benefits of this type of development in terms of family
incomes and soil improvement are well understood but with market forces
progressively determining land use, technicians and farmers need to be
informed about the financial benefits and risks associated with the various
production possibilities.
(e)   Tremendous success was achieved in water savings through the lining of
canals. An excellent real-time water monitoring system has been
developed for the Weigan Irrigation System. This project's loss
monitoring system should be expanded to cover both Yerqiang and



- ix -
Weigan areas and should be used not only for monitoring losses but also
for real-time operation of the irrigation system.
(f)    This project has an innovative component to suppress hail formation and
reduce crop loss. This component has worked successfully in reducing hail
cloud formation 80 percent of the time. - But sustainability of this
component depends very much on the Government's support for O&M.
The Akesu Prefecture should add its resources to the financial support
from counties to ensure that all O&M requirements are met.
(g)   With the movement toward a market-oriented economy the seed
multiplication, cleaning, testing, treatment, etc. would be better left to the
private sector and separated from the seed quality regulatory service,
which should remain a responsibility of the Agricultural Bureau in the
counties.
(h)   Competitive bidding procedures used for works and goods procurement
have achieved considerable savings in project costs and in general most of
the works achieved good quality. To eliminate unqualified suppliers, more
stringent methods of prequalification should be adopted to ensure that all
bidders are qualified.



- 1 -
CHINA
TARIM BASIN PROJECT
(CREDIT 2294-CN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    The main objectives of the project were to support the Government's policy to
speed up the development of China's poorer provinces in the north and west. The project
was intended to expand the irrigated area for crop production, improve agricultural
services, and promote livestock development in southern Xinjiang Autonomous Region,
one of the poorer and less developed areas in China.
2.    The project also incorporated measures to restore the natural ecology and to
monitor environmentally sound development of the Tarim Basin. The project was
particularly designed to assist Uygur herdsmen, an ethnic minority, in raising livestock
and provide productive employment for women. The main features of the project were as
follows:
(a)   Irrigation and drainage improvement and expansion for 200,000 ha in the
Yerqiang and Weigan basins;
(b)   Hydropower development in the Yerqiang basin;
(c)   Agricultural support services development for the Weigan and Yerqiang
areas;
(d)   Livestock support services development for the Weigan and Yerqiang
areas; and--
(e)   Restoration of the Tarim River ecosystem.
The objectives were generally well-designed, spelled out in the project documentation,
and supported by all the stakeholders. Similarly, they appropriately reflected the
Government's implementation capacity and were consistent with both the Government's
development strategy and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy at the time of
preparation.



-2 -
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    The project objectives were achieved through implementation of the irrigation,
drainage, agriculture and livestock components. Canal lining improved the efficiency of
water delivery and saved about a 940 million m3 of water. The water saved gave the
counties the capability to expand the irrigated area by 73,000 ha and to provide additional
land for cultivation by small farmers and thereby increasing their incomes. Drainage
improvements lowered the groundwater table and reduced soil salinity on about
300,000 ha by transporting salt out of the cultivated area and thereby stabilizing crop
yields. The strong performance of almost all subcomponents resulted in farm family
incomes in Yerqiang increasing by about 64 percent and in Weigan by about 72 percent
in constant terms. Over 80 percent of the beneficiaries are Uygur farmers.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation Results
4.    Irrigation and Drainage. Essentially all physical targets for irrigation and
drainage were achieved, and in many cases exceeded the targets set out during the
appraisal of the project. The scope of the project was expanded during the midterm
review (e.g., irrigation canal lining was increased from 736 km to 1,076 km) and even
these revised targets were fulfilled. Similarly, overall drainage canal lengths increased by
73 km, 8 percent of total drainage canals specified in the SAR. Improved canal lining has
had a tremendous impact on delivering water more quickly and in greater volumes to
farmers.
TABLE 1: WORKS COMPLETED COMPARED WITH SAR ESTIMATES
Revised SAR Estimate/a    Actual Completed  %
Description           Yerqiang   Weigan    Yerqiang  Weigan completed
Wasteland Reclamation ('000 mu)     630      570         630      570     100
Low-Yield Land Improvement ('000 mu)    931  825         931      825     100
Canal Lining (km)                   558      518         563      537     102
(387)    (349)
Drainage Canals (km)                137      769         143      768     100
(165)    (669)
Wells (no.)                         260       29         199       26      78
/a SAR estimates are shown in parentheses.
5.    Agriculture. The agricultural component has achieved all physical targets and in
many cases exceeded the midterm plan, which was revised upward. At the prefecture
level, all planned construction has been completed for each of the types of stations, such
as experiment stations, agricultural extension stations, agricultural schools, agricultural
machinery training centers and seed calibration. At the county level, agricultural



-3 -
extension stations have been constructed or rehabilitated; At the township level, some 89
of the 97 stations have been constructed. Similarly, agricultural machinery service/repair
stations have been established at the county and township levels.
6.    Overall investments in agricultural services and production reached 126 percent of
the SAR level in Yerqiang and 134 percent in Weigan with some differences between
counties and components. In each county of Yerqiang, investments were 100 to 140
percent of the SAR figure. In Weigan, investments for each county range from 113 to 141
percent of the SAR estimates.
7.    Seed Farms have been established in five counties with seed processing plants and
seed stations in all nine counties and one township. Development of the large-scale farms
in the Weigan Basin have essentially been completed and about 70 to 80 percent have
been brought under production. Cotton seed ginning and delinting plants have been
established in all eight counties and one corn drying plant has been established in
Yecheng County. Cotton seed ginning capacity has been increased beyond the plan figure
in order to meet increased demand. The establishment of seed farms and seed stations is
according to plan. Farmers are now using high-quality seed, resulting in uniformity of
crop yields over all the counties.
8.    Animal Husbandry (AH). Overall investments in animal husbandry services and
livestock production have reached about 116 percent of the target level in Yerqiang and
123 percent in Weigan. A relatively large part of the investment is in establishment of
county and township stations. In the Yerqiang counties, investments range between 93
and 149 percent of the SAR proposed investments for counties and townships. AH
servicing stations investments range between 121 and 129 percent of the SAR values.
9.    At the prefecture level, all research facilities for the Bahutai and Tuohai
experimental farms and training facilities have been completed. AH extension stations
have been established in all eight counties and in all 93 townships, with 19 substations to
support the township stations.
10.   Construction of artificial insemination(AI)/breeding stations is well below the
plan level, with 31 of the planned 44 established. The decision to reduce the number of
Al/Breeding Stations from the initial 54 in the SAR to 44 and subsequently to 31 is
rational. The need for Al/breeding stations including sires, semen collection and
insemination services was reduced because higher-quality semen became available
through the prefecture and, consequently, insemination services are provided through
township stations and substations.
11.   Ecology Restoration Component. All four comprehensive monitoring stations
for the Tarim River component have been completed including access roads, water
supply, electricity supply and telephone communications. In addition, infrared remote
sensing, hydrologic, meteorological, groundwater, and water quality monitoring
equipment have been procured. Several control structures have been completed to transfer
water from midstream to the downstream section of the Tarim River. Since the



- 4 -
completion of these structures, 25 million cubic meters (Mm3) and 120 Mm3 of water
have been transferred downstream in 1995 and 1996, respectively. In addition, the
Xinjiang Government has issued three regulations on the formation of the Tarim River
Basin Management Committee (TRBMC) and the Tarim River Basin Management
Bureau (TRBMB). These regulations define the scope of work and responsibilities for
TRBMC and TRBMB. In the follow-up Tarim Basin II Project, TRBMB is going to be
upgraded to a Tarim Basin Commission (TBC), which will have the authority to review
and approve all future investments in water resource projects in the Basin and will also be
able to invest directly in water resource projects.
Benefits Accrued During Implementation
12.  Irrigation Component. The canal lining component had an enormous impact on
the project. The immediate observations by the farmers was that water delivery was four
times faster than previously. The increase in the flow of water at the farm level was about
three to four times faster than previously observed, and farmers were able to reduce the
length of time required to irrigate their fields by 66 to 75 percent. Lining also reduced
groundwater tables by about 1 to 2 meters and this resulted in reduction of soil salinity
around the cropped areas. The largest impact of the 980 km of lined canals was the
reduction in seepage of water (940 million m3) in the two irrigation areas. These savings
in water helped the counties to expand the irrigated area by 73,000 ha and also to supply
additional water to about 113,000 ha of low-yield and stable areas. The increased
irrigation water had an enormous impact on crop yields (see para. 18).
13.   Drainage/Environmental Benefits. With the development of the drainage system,
the annual drainage outflow increased from 115 Mm3 in 1992 to 382 Mm3 in 1996. As a
result of the increase in drainage outflow, the total waterlogged area decreased from 56
square kilometers (km2) in 1992 to 13 km2 in 1996. The construction of drainage canals also
increased the salt outflow from year to year. For example, in 1992 net accumulation of salt
in the subproject area was 0.139 million tons. In 1994 the outflow of salt exceeded the
inflow by 0.199 million tons, which is indicative that the entire area was desalinizing. In
1995 the net outflow of salt (outflow minus inflow) increased to 0.511 million tons, and in
1996 it increased to 1.015 million tons (see figure 1). The entire cropped area of 133,000 ha
was desalinizing and crop yields in all the areas increased. This is one of the first large-scale
drainage and irrigation systems in China where desalinization of waterlogged arid areas was
proceeding as the project was being completed.
14.   Hail Suppression Benefits. The hail suppression component was one of the most
innovative components included in the project. It was very successful in reducing the
formnation of hail clouds. The cloud detection radar was installed and silver iodide rockets
were use to suppress hail cloud formation. Hail damage area was reduced by about 90
percent (from 9,330 ha to 930 ha) in 1996 after this component was implemented in
1994/95. The damage reduction was estimated to be about Y 40-50 million. However, the
major problem with the hail suppression station is that it is entirely supported by the
county governments who, despite the value of the services of the station, are unable to



-5-
Figure 1: Salt Movement Out of the Basin     support it fully. It is
(+ve for accumulation -ve for movement out)  important for this station
200                   .                              to be supported by the
prefecture   government
0                         ~                         since the hail suppression
1992  53  ~~~19194      1995     1996
1992  94  1995  1996      area covers more than the
-200                                                  three counties and there
are  significant  social
e6 -400                             \benefits   outside   the
county's boundaries.
-600
15.   Agricultural
-800                                                  Benefits. The perform-
ance of the agricultural
-1000                                         4       development component
has  been  satisfactory.
-1200o_                                                Since  1990  the  total
cultivated area increased
from 282,700 ha to 359,680 ha (27 percent increase), slightly in excess of the target area
for both Yerqiang and Weigan. The cultivated area on stable cropland and low-yield land
remained almost constant at 162,700 ha and 117,000 ha, respectively, while reclaimed
areas accounted for the entire increase.
16.   The cropped area increased from 386,100 ha to 450,290 ha, an increase of 16.6
percent, which is 93 percent of the SAR estimate. Both Yerqiang and Weigan were below
the SAR estimate with regard to crop area and cropping intensity because there has been a
significant shift in land use toward higher-value crops, with the result that cotton in 1996
occupied 195,810 ha; i.e., 43 percent of the crop area compared to 20 percent before. This
change in cropping pattern has made an important contribution to the increase in farm
family incomes.
17.   Overall crop production increased 19 percent in grains, of which wheat increased
by 14 percent. There was a 69 percent increase in cotton, with declines in production of
oilseeds, vegetables, fruits/melons and alfalfa. Additional residues and crop by-products
available for livestock feed are estimated to be about 250,000 tons.
18.   As a result of the project, crop yields have increased to the final development
production targets much faster than the rate anticipated in the SAR (see Table 2 for
details). The yield increases were 20 to 47 percent in the stable areas and 68 to 118
percent on the low-yield lands. In stable areas, about 50 percent of the yield increase was
attributed to additional inputs and another 50 percent was due to irrigation. In the low-
yield areas, the yield increase was 40 percent due to additional inputs, 20 percent due to
drainage and about 40 percent due to additional water.



- 6 -
TABLE 2. YIELD INCREASES PRE- AND POST-PROJECT
Preproject                  SAR target at  Yield increase,
1989/90     1995 & 1996  full development    1989-95
(tons)        (tons)          (tons)          (%)
Stable Area
Wheat                  4.05           4.8             4.75            20
Com 2                  3.9            5.4             4.9             38
Cotton                 0.8            1.18            1.05            47
Low-Yield Area
Wheat                  2.2            3.7             3.7             68
Corn 2                 3.1            4.45            4.5             43
Cotton                 0.48           1.05            0.9            118
Reclaimed Area
Wheat                  NA             3.30            3.30           NA
Com 2                  NA             3.45            4.50           NA
Cotton                 NA             0.85            0.90           NA
19.   Livestock Benefits. Despite the slow start of animal production development in
1992 and 1993, current output exceeds the SAR estimates. The sheep population and the
production of meat increased as shown below in Table 3. However, the goat population
declined marginally.
TABLE 3: CHANGES IN LIVESTOCK POPULATION, OFFTAKE MEAT & FIBER
PRODUCTION
Item           Unit        1990        1996       Increase    % increase
Sheep Population    '000 Head     2,627.8     3,115.3      487.5       19.0
Sheep Offtake       '000 Head      987.6      1,362.3      374.7       38.0
Goat Population     '000 Head      878.5       845.0       -33.0       -4.0
Goat Offtake        '000 Head      249.0       223.2       -25.8      -10.0
Meat Production      '000 Ton    18,157.0    28,714.0    10,557.0      58.0
Wool Production        Ton        3,560.0     5,283.0     1,723.0      48.0
Cashmere Wool          Ton          86.0        87.0         1.0        0.1
20.   In Yerqiang the sheep and goat populations changed by 10 and -60 percent,
respectively, while offtake changed by 36 and -17 percent and meat production by 44
percent. The decline in goat population was largely due to the decline in cashmere wool
prices in the early 1-590s. Weigan sheep and goat populations changed by 1 1 and 27



- 7 -
percent, respectively, offtake by 44 and -3 percent and meat production by 95 percent.
Population increases have been partly due to purchases from outside the project area but
most are attributed to improved reproduction rates, reduced mortality, increased feed
availability and the desire by farmers and herdsmen to increase the size of their flocks and
herds. Similarly, offtake, which is a measure of production efficiency, has increased
because of improved reproduction and lower mortality and the meat production increase
is the result of increased liveweight, carcass yield and carcass weight, which have
increased by 2 kilograms (kg) and 3 to 5 kg for sheep and goats, respectively. Offtake of
sheep has increased from 37 to 44 percent and goats declined from 28 to 26 percent
because of low cashmere prices.
21.   Livestock population increases, offtake, carcass meat production and wool
production increases are all in excess of SAR target figures but cashmere wool
production is only 13 percent of target. The total value of the livestock production
increase for the total project is Y 268.12 million, which is considerably in excess of SAR
targets.
22.   The high level of success in livestock is due to the increased availability of crop
residues and by-products, the improved coverage of animal health and production
services. The success is also due to the successful implementation of specific project
components, namely Mixed Crop and Livestock Farming, Pasture Improvement, Pasture
Fencing, Fodder Bases and Fattening Bases. These specific project components involved
the formation of collective- groups, allocation of land and financing of collectives and
individual households. In addition, there were special demonstrations to all collective
groups.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
23.   Cost Increases. In the first year of the project, 1991/92, the prices of construction
materials increased by about 40 percent and, as a result, only 50 percent of the first year's
program was completed. The provincial government modified the designs of the large
canals and structures, thereby realizing cost savings of about 30 percent on these
structures. In addition, the Government decided to procure all civil works and goods on
the basis of competitive bidding, which resulted in further savings of about 15 to 20
percent. As a result of these changes, the Government was able to implement the overall
program as planned for the next few years. However, at the time of the midterm review in
November 1994, it was discovered that there were savings in the IDA Credit.
Consequently, the scope of the project was expanded to cover the addition of 330 km of
canal lining (30 percent increase), 125 additional groundwater wells (71 percent increase)
and the addition of 55 km of 110 kV transmission lines (17 percent increase).
24.   Counterpart Funding. In the initial years, counterpart funding was in short
supply and when it appeared, it was usually well into the fiscal year. The counterpart
funding came from several different central and regional government sources but in 1994
the Bureau of Finance decided to centralize the counterpart funding and to distribute it as



- 8 -
soon as the funds became available. This resulted in considerable improvements although
some of the project components were still short of working capital. Only after the
executing agencies obtained access to lines of credit from local banks did construction
activities proceed smoothly.
25.   Procurement. The use of the Bank Group's Procurement Guidelines had a
profound impact on the project costs. The SAR estimated that only 68 percent of civil
works and goods could be procured using international or national competitive bidding
(ICB and NCB) procedures and another 32 percent would be procured using shopping or
force account procedures. However, during project implementation the Project
Management Office (PMO) found that competitive bidding procedures reduced cost by
10 to 25 percent and in most cases increased the quality of works and goods. In the
Yerqiang Basin the resulting savings are estimated to be about Y 100 million. The PMO
increased the ICB procurement of goods and works from the SAR level of 32 percent of
all such items to 52 percent. There were, however, some cases where despite using ICB
procedures , the lowest bidder produced very poor-quality goods as in the purchase of
15-ton trucks. Most of the poor suppliers could have been avoided by proper
prequalification procedures.
26.   Disbursements. In the first few years the disbursements were always much higher
than the SAR estimates. In subsequent years the disbursements were slightly lower or on
target as estimated, but in the last few years they again exceeded the SAR estimates. The
last credit disbursement was on December 27, 1997.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
27.   The regional and prefecture government are committed to ensuring sustainability
of the project, since the project represents a key element in their effort to increase
foodgrain and cotton production, and to reduce the incidence of poverty in southern
Xinjiang.
28.  Irrigation and Drainage. The Yerqiang and Weigan irrigation schemes have
been in existence for many years and have operated successfully. The crop yields in
stable areas have increased due to further lowering of groundwater tables and additional
water supply. The low-yield lands have already reached the yields of the stable area and
the reclaimed areas have also registered substantial yield increases. Farmer interviews
also disclosed that farmers have already obtained considerable benefits from the project
and that they intend to line the on-farm canals in order to realize further improvements.
Lined canals have assured timely supply of water to farms and the drainage system has
assured that salinization of soils would be prevented.
29.   For both these irrigation schemes , detailed operations and maintenance (O&M)
plans have evolved over a 20-year period of operation. In addition, further revisions to the
O&M plans have been made since the completion of the project. Yerqiang and Weigan
have established O&M water institutions. At the prefecture level, the water management
offices (Yerqiang and Weigan Water Management Offices) are first-level corporatized



-9 -
water companies that allocate water for each county. The county water resource water
management offices form the second-level water companies, which have several other
branch- and township-level companies that receive and sell water to farmer-managed
village organizations. At the village level, the farmers are organized according to
production teams. The village water master and production team masters are elected by
the farmers. The water allocation for each county, township, and village is fairly well
defined, even under water shortage situations. Water charges have been increased from
0.2 fen/m3 to 1.2 fen/m3 between 1993 and 1996. Water charges will be increased by
December 1999 to about 4.8 fen/m3 to completely recover the O&M and capital costs.
30.   Drainage schemes will also be managed by the counties under their water resource
management offices, which have set up several Drainage Management Stations. Each of
these stations will be staffed with about four staff who will be responsible for drainage
management. There is already a collection of Y 2/mu in some counties for routine and
major maintenance of drainage systems.
31.   Agricultural sustainability is assured because the quality and coverage of the
extension service increased dramatically under the project. Farmers have realized the
value of these services. High-yielding seed production and processing stations have also
been established in every county to provide high-quality seed to farmers. The Regional
Government will corporatize all the various processing plants and seed farms after these
have reached full production levels in 1999 and make them financially autonomous.
32.   AH services are sustainable since farmers have realized the value of these services
and there is a huge demand. Costs for these services are all recovered through charges.
All costs of veterinary services provided from each Township Station and Substation are
recovered by charges that include preventive vaccinations, for which livestock owners
pay Y 6.0 per head of cattle and Y 4.5 for sheep; parasite control cost, Y 3 for cattle, Y 1
for sheep; and veterinary examinations, Y 8 to 14 for cattle and Y 2.5 for sheep.
Treatment cost according to the disease is based on actual drug cost plus service cost
calculated according to time spent. Similarly, grassland service costs are also recovered
and they include advice to livestock owners on the harvest and conservation of forage and
assistance with the management of natural and improved pastures. For pasture
management, farmers pay Y 1.2 to 1.5 per head for cattle and Y 0.6 for sheep and goats.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
33.   IDA performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project
was detailed and has been viewed as satisfactory. Overall, the IDA performance was
greatly appreciated by the provincial government during the preparation phase. The
preparation work was based on studies and designs performed by the prefecture design
institutes over about 10 years prior to IDA's involvement. Many of the designs for the
irrigation and drainage systems were already completed and several different hydraulic
computer simulations and water balances were already carried out to verify the designs,
including water availability. IDA verified the detail designs and water balances and



- 10-
prepared detailed economic and financial analysis to verify the viability of the various
irrigation, agricultural and livestock components.
34.  IDA's performance in project supervision has been satisfactory. Seven
supervision missions were undertaken over seven years-an average of one mission a
year. The supervision missions made significant contributions to (a) financing works in
the face of shortages of funds; (b) improving construction methods and achieving
economy and efficiency by competitive procurement methods; (b) resolving technical
issues; (c) providing counterpart funding and working capital for project activities; and
(d) advising on design and scope changes. In most cases, the advice provided by the
supervision missions had a positive influence on the project. Many project agencies
realized the importance of the supervision recommendations and most of them were
carried out. The missions were less successful in assisting the PMO to recruit overseas
technical assistance and training using foreign experts.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
35.   The performance of the project's implementation agencies, the Xinjiang Regional
Project Management Office, in conjunction with prefecture and county PMOs, was
generally satisfactory. The various prefecture PMOs prepared comprehensive feasibility
studies for each component that covered technical, financial, economic and institutional
aspects. The technical agencies under the PMOs, such as the Water Conservancy,
Agriculture and Livestock Bureaus at various levels of government, also prepared
preliminary and detailed designs that were generally satisfactory. Project staff at the
prefecture and county levels were generally committed to the project objectives and
demonstrated project ownership. The project components were for the most part
implemented in line with the agreed implementation arrangements and changes to designs
were addressed as they occurred. Implementation in the first year was slow because of the
extreme shortage of counterpart funds and lack of familiarity with IDA procedures.
However, after the first year the project implementation was much more smoothly
implemented. By the time of the midterm review (three years from the start) the project
was well ahead of schedule for most components except the AH component, which was
then adjusted to meet the actual requirements. Counterpart funding was always an issue
and great effort was made by IDA missions to address this issue. Overall, the quality of
works was excellent and the prefecture and county implementation agencies'
performance was satisfactory.
36.   The Borrower complied promptly and completely with all the covenants
prescribed in the legal agreements except for the water charge covenant, which needs to
be fulfilled in December 1999. A detail monitoring and reporting system was set up that
indicated the progress and expenditures on all components. Half-yearly progress reports,
audited project accounts together with the auditors reports were also regularly produced
and received generally on time.



G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
37.   The project's overall outcome is viewed as highly satisfactory, since all the
objectives of irrigation and drainage development, agricultural/AH growth were achieved
with a relatively high degree of sustainability. The overall economic rate of return of 33
percent is impressive and is almost the same as the SAR estimate. Overall, the project has
had a strong development impact through the mobilization of scare resources for the
expansion of agricultural and livestock production. The large increase in the coverage of
extension services, machinery, feed supply and other services has benefited some 350,000
households. Crop yields and livestock production increased substantially from 1991 to
1997. Per capita incomes have risen from Y 400-610 to Y 1,030-1,5 10 between 1991 and
1997.
38.   A total of 42,000 ha of newly reclaimed land were given to collectives (11
percent), farmers with proven crop production ability (18 percent) and small peasant
farmers (71 percent). Overall, 104,000 households (420,000 people) were affected. Over
82 percent of the households were minority Uygurs and landholding increased in peasant
households by 7.85 mu (20 percent of their present land area).
39.   The AH component has improved the coverage of animal health and production
services for livestock belonging to 330,000 livestock owners. Other improvements
include increased improved livestock feed and better feed utilization. There is also
increased pasture production and improved genetic resources. Overall livestock
production performance improved. Overall incomes per head of sheep increased by
Y 100/head.
40.   The project has also had a strong impact on the sustainability of the irrigation
areas. In both Weigan and Yerqiang it was clearly demonstrated that there is no salt
accumulation in the agriculture areas because of the drainage schemes. The hail
suppression component dramatically reduced the number of hail events and crop loss per
year by about 80 percent.
41.   Lining of canals has considerably reduced the leakage of water. Farmers are able
to receive water much more quickly and groundwater tables are considerably reduced and
thereby local salinization is reduced.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
42.   The future operations of the project will require, first, the completion of all the on-
farm structures on about 25 percent of the newly reclaimed areas. Second, water charges
will have to be raised from 1.2 fen/m3 to 4.8 fen/m3 by December 1999 to ensure O&M is
fully funded and there is full cost recovery.
43.   Third, the Regional Government should complete its evaluation of the seed
production and processing enterprises with a view to corporatizing and commercializing
these entities. The Regional Government should also undertake, by the end of 1998,



- 12 -
special training for the financial staff in these seed enterprises, given their current
weakness in financial management skills.
44.   IDA will continue to monitor the operation of the project activities in conjunction
with the supervision of the Tarim Basin II Project.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
45.   The key lessons learned from the project are summarized below.
(a)   The project increased crop yields by 20 to 47 percent in the stable areas
and 68 to 118 percent in the low-yield areas during the project's
implementation period of six years. All the project's target yields at full
development were matched or exceeded even before the project was
completed. The lesson learned is that good irrigation and drainage
systems, improved agricultural services and inputs can be immediately
utilized by farmers to generate large increases in crop yields and
production.
(b)   The building of drainage systems concurrent with the irrigation systems
has brought a great deal of benefit to ensure the desalinization of soils and
therefore the stabilization of crop yields. The institutions for the
maintenance of these drains through drainage management stations should
be expanded to cover drains at the main, branch and tertiary levels. Fee
collection by drainage districts is an excellent idea and should be
expanded to all counties.
(c)   The project experience has shown that farmers are becoming increasingly
market-oriented and are very receptive to extension service demonstrations
and advice. This attitude places a heavy responsibility on the extension
service to ensure that technical packages given to farmers represent the
most cost-effective and least risk-development possibilities.
(d)   Development of the mixed crop/livestock and fodder base components
was successful and served as an example to other livestock-owning
families.'''The benefits of this type of development in terms of family
incomes and soil improvement are well understood but with market forces
progressively determining land use, technicians and farmers need to be
informed about the financial benefits and risks associated with the various
production possibilities.
(e)   Tremendous success was achieved in water savings through the lining of
canals. An excellent real-time water monitoring system has been
developed for the Weigan Irrigation System. This project's real-time loss
monitoring system should be expanded to cover both Yerqiang and



- 13 -
Weigan areas and should be used not only for monitoring losses but also
for real-time operation of the irrigation system.
(f)    This project has an innovative component to suppress hail formation and
reduce crop loss. This component has worked successfully in reducing hail
cloud formation 80 percent of the time. But sustainability of this
component depends very much on the Government's support for O&M.
The Akesu Prefecture should add its resources to the financial support
from counties to ensure that all O&M requirements are met.
(g)   With the movement toward a market-oriented economy, the seed
multiplication, cleaning, testing, treatment, etc. would be better left to the
private sector and separated from the seed quality regulatory service,
which should remain a responsibility of the Agricultural Bureau in the
counties.
(h)   Competitive bidding procedures used for works and goods procurement
have achieved considerable savings in project costs and in general most of
the works achieved good quality. To eliminate unqualified suppliers, more
stringent methods of prequalification should be adopted to ensure that all
bidders are qualified.



- 14-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Irrigation                                   Agriculture
A. Achievement of         Substantial   Partial  Negligible   Not       Substantial   Partial  Negligible   Not
Objectives                                                 Applicable                                    Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                                         X                                             X
Sector Policies                                                X                                             x
Financial Objectives          X                                             X
Institutional Development     X                                                        X
Physical Objectives           X                                             X
Poverty Reduction             X                                             X
Gender Issues                            X                                             X
Other Social Objectives       X                                             X
Environmental Objectives                 X                                             X
Public Sector Management                                       X                                             X
Private Sector Development                                     X                                             X
Other (Specify)
B. Project Sustainability    Likely       Unlikely       Uncertain         Likely      Unlikely       Uncertain
x                                             x
C. Bank Performance       Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient    Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                    X                                             X
Preparation Assistance            X                                             X
Appraisal                                        X                                              X
Supervision                                      X                                              X
D. Borrower Performance  Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient    Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                       X                                             X
Implementation                    X                                             X
Covenant Compliance                              X                                              X
E. Assessment Outcome       Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory     Highly Unsatisfactory
Irrigation                          X
Agriculture                         X



- 15 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK GROUP LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/credit title              Purpose                             approval      Status
PRECEDING OPERATIONS:
North China Plain Agriculture   Irrigation Development & Land       FY82       Completed
(Cr. 1261-CHA)                 Improvement
Pi-Shi-Hang Chaohu Area        Irrigation & Area Development        FY85       Completed
Development
(Cr. 1606/Ln. 2579-CHA)
Northern rrigation             Irrigation Development and           FY88       Completed
(Cr. 1885-CHA)                 Improvement, and Settlement
Gansu Provincial Development   Irrigation and Agriculture Development   FY88   Completed
(Cr. 1793/Ln. 2812-CHA)
Shaanxi Agriculture Development  Irrigation and Agriculture Development   FY89  Completed
(Cr. 1997-CN)
FOLLOWING OPERATIONS:
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification  Irrigation and Agriculture Development   FY91   To be Completed
(Ln. 3337/Cr. 2256-CHA)                                                         in 12/97
Yangtze Basin Water Resources    Irrigation and Area Development    FY95   To be Competed
(Cr. 271 0/Ln. 2874-CHA)                                                       in 12/2001
Gansu Hexi Corridor            Irrigation & Land Development, and   FY96   To Be Completed
(Ln. 4028/Cr. 2870- CHA)       Settlement                                     in 12/2006



- 16 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                                        Date planned                 Date actual
Identification                                                    05/89                       05/89
Preparation                                                       09/89                       09/89
Preappraisal                                                      04/90                       04/90
Appraisal                                                         06/90                       09/90
Negotiations                                                      05/91                       05/91
Board presentation                                                08/91                       08/91
Signing                                                           10/91                       10/91
Effectiveness                                                     01/92                       01/92
Project completion                                                12/97                       12/97
Loan closing                                                      04/98                       04/98
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY92      FY93      FY94       FY95      FY96       FY97      FY98
Appraisal estimate                        10.00      32.50     69.50     93.50    117.50    125.00
Actual                                     9.99      30.44     56.88     84.56    112.74    135.01    135.92
Actualas%ofadjustedestimate                99.9       93.7      81.8       90.4      95.9      108.0     108.7
Date of final disbursement                                                                 December 27,1997
IBRD/IDA                  At Appraisal                                Actual                   Actual Project
Fiscal Year    Disbursement               Project      Disbursement                 Project     Cumulative,
Semester      Semestral    Cumulative  Cumulative       Semestral    Cumulative  Cumulative     Compare
(US$ million)          (%)               (US$ million)           (%/.)     with SAR (%)
1992
First             -           -         0.0              8.10        8.10          6.0           100
Second           10.00       10.00         8.0             8.10       16.10         11.9           161
1993
First          9.00        19.00        15.2            10.00       26.10         19.3           137
Second           13.50       32.50        26.0            10.00       36.20         26.7           111
1994
First          18.50      51.00        40.8             12.40       48.50         35.9            95
Second           18.50       69.50        55.6            12.40       60.90         45.0            88
1995
First          12.00      81.50        65.2             16.00       76.90         56.8            94
Second           12.00       93.50        74.8            16.00       92.90         68.6            99
1996
First          12.00      105.50       84.4             17.20      110.10         81.3           104
Second           12.00      117.50        94.0            17.20      127.30         94.0           108
1997
First           7.50      125.00       100.0            4.30       131.60         97.0           105
Second                      125.00       100.0             4.30       135.90       100.0            109
Total                106.00      106.00                        135.40      135.90



- 17-
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
SAR                  % of
Project Item                 Unit   Estimated    Actual   Completed
1. Yerqiang Subproject
A. Yuepuhu County
Irrigation Component
Laokana Canal Reconstruction                  km           45.0      50.0   111.1
Land Reclamation                              mu       12,000.0   12,000.0   100.0
Low-yielding land improvement                 mu        7,600.0    7,600.0   100.0
Agriculture Component
County Extension Station                      m2        2,750.0    2,750.0   100.0
County Seed Station Improvement               m2        2,622.0    2,622.0   100.0
Cotton Seed Delinting                         m2        3,600.0    3,600.0   100.0
Low-yielding land improvement (fertilization)  mu      10,000.0   10,000.0   100.0
High-Yield Orchard                            mu        1,000.0    1,000.0   100.0
Township Agriculture machinery Network        no.           1.0       1.0   100.0
Animal Husbandry Component
Pasture fencing 5,000 mu                      mu        5,000.0    5,000.0   100.0
Ordinary Township Stations                    no.           8.0       8.0   100.0
County Service Center/PMO Office              m2        1,633.0    1,633.0   100.0
Mixed Crop and Livestock                     group          4.0       4.0   100.0
Forage Base                                   mu        1,000.0    1,000.0   100.0
B. Bachu County
Irrigation Component
Land Reclamation                              mu      158,000.0  158,000.0   100.0
Low-yielding land improvement                 mu       99,100.0   99,100.0   100.0
Canal Lining                                  km           65.0      65.0   100.0
Drainage canal construction                   km           57.0      57.0   100.0
Well Field                                    no.         100.0      49.0    49.0
Agriculture Component
County Agriculture Extension Center Improvement    no.      1.0       1.0   100.0
Township Agriculture Stations                 no.          10.0      10.0   100.0
Seed Station Improvement                      no.           2.0       2.0   100.0
Low-yielding land improvement (fertilization)  mu      55,800.0   55,800.0   100.0
Township Agriculture Machinery Stations       no.           2.0       2.0   100.0
County Agriculture Machinery Repairing Center  no.          1.0        1.0   100.0
County Agriculture Machinery Training Center  no.           1.0        1.0   100.0
County Agriculture Machinery Station          no.           2.0       2.0   100.0
Animal Husbandry Component
Pasture Fencing                               mu       15,000.0   15,000.0   100.0
Township Stations                             no.           9.0       9.0   100.0
Xiamali Goat Experimental Station             no.           1.0        1.0   100.0
Mixed Crop and Livestock                     group         14.0      14.0   100.0
County Service Center/equipment               no.           1.0       1.0   100.0
Forage Base                                   mu        3,000.0    3,000.0   100.0
PMO Living Facilities                          m2         400.0     400.0   100.0



- 18-
SAR                  % of
Project Item                 Unit   Estimated    Actual   Completed
C. Maigaiti County
Irrigation Component
Land Reclamation                              mu     132,000.0  132,000.0   100.0
Low-Yielding Land Improvement                 mu      76,800.0   76,800.0   100.0
Canal Lining                                  km          87.2      87.2   100.0
Drainage Canal Construction   -               km          80.0       86.2   107.8
Irrigation Works for Forage Base              mu       9,000.0    9,000.0   100.0
Agriculture Component
County Seed Station                           km       2,370.0    2,370.0   100.0
Low-Yielding Land Improvement                 mu      81,900.0   81,900.0   100.0
Cotton Seed Ginnery Improvement               m2       4,350.0    5,889.2   135.4
Ordinary Township Stations                    no.          9.0       9.0   100.0
County Agriculture Extension Center           m2         200.0     200.0   100.0
Agriculture Machinery Component
Township Machinery Stations                   no.          2.0       2.0   100.0
Training Center for Agriculture Machinery     m2        1,050.0    1,098.4   104.6
Agriculture machinery repairing center        m2         500.0     400.0    80.0
Animal Husbandry Component
County Service Center                         m2        1,233.0    1,334.0   108.2
Stud Farm                                     no.          1.0        1.0   100.0
No. 5 Township Experimental Station           no.          1.0        1.0   100.0
Pasture Fencing                               mu       7,000.0   10,800.0   154.3
Mixed Crop and Livestock                     group        27.0      27.0   100.0
Township Extension Stations                   no.          8.0        8.0   100.0
Forage Base                                   mu       9,000.0    9,000.0   100.0
PMO Living Facilities                         m2         400.0     400.0   100.0
D. Shache County
Irrigation Component
Low-Yielding Land Improvement                 mu     193,682.0  193,682.0   100.0
Land Reclamation                              mu      189,000.0  189,000.0   100.0
Klowati Canal Rehabilitation and Lining       km          47.0      47.0   100.0
Well Fields                                   no.         50.0      50.0   100.0
Huangdi Canal Rehabilitation                  km          40.6      40.6   100.0
Xinliuqu Canal Lining                         km          27.0      27.0   100.0
Agriculture Component
Shache Seed Farm                              km       4,300.0    4,300.0   100.0
County Agriculture Extension Center           km         800.0     800.0   100.0
Township Extension Stations                   no.         25.0      25.0   100.0
Low-yielding land improvement (fertility lacking)  mu  142,800.0  142,800.0   100.0
Township Agriculture Machinery Station        no.          3.0       3.0   100.0
Cotton Seed Delinting Workshop                no.          1.0        1.0   100.0
Animal Husbandry Component
Township Animal Husbandry Stations            no.         28.0      28.0   100.0
Mixed Crop and Livestock                     group        16.0       16.0   100.0
Pasture Fencing                               mu       3,000.0         -      0.0
Animal Fattening Base                         no.          1.0        1.0   100.0
PMO Living Facilities                         km         600.0     600.0   100.0



- 19-
SAR                  % of
Project Item                 Unit   Estimated    Actual   Completed
E. Zepu County
Irrigation Component
Land Reclamation                              mu      57,000.0   58,000.0   101.8
Low-Yielding Land Improvement                 mu      65,900.0   65,900.0   100.0
Zepu Well Fields                              no.         60.0       50.0    83.3
Aktam Canal lining                            km           7.0        7.0   100.0
Boscam and Boshengan Canal Connecting         km          11.0       11.0   100.0
Canal Lining and Rehabilitation               km          53.8       53.8   100.0
Agriculture Component
County Agriculture Extension Station          no           1.0        1.0   100.0
Low-yielding land improvement                 mu       14,300.0   14,300.0   100.0
County Seed Station                           no.          1.0        1.0   100.0
Cotton Ginnery                                no.          1.0        1.0   100.0
\ Zepu Farm Construction                         no.          1.0        1.0   100.0
New Township Agriculture Extension Station    no.         10.0       10.0   100.0
Agriculture Machinery Component
Township Agriculture Machinery Network        m2         400.0     400.0   100.0
Agriculture Machinery Repairing Center        m2       2,812.0    2,812.0   100.0
Animal Husbandry Component
Ordinary Township Animal Husbandry Stations   no.          9.0       9.0   100.0
County Animal Husbandry Service Building      m2        1,334.0    1,334.0   100.0
Mixed Crop and Livestock                     group         8.0        8.0   100.0
PMO Living Facilities                         m2         400.0     400.0   100.0
F. Yecheng County
Irrigation Component
Land Reclamation                              mu      82,000.0   82,000.0   100.0
Low-yielding land improvement                 mu      130,600.0  130,600.0   100.0
Canal Lining                                  km         118.3      118.3   100.0
Xiaota Canal Extension                        km           4.5       4.5   100.0
Well Fields                                   no.         50.0      50.0   100.0
110 kV Switch Yard                            no.          1.0       1.0   100.0
Agriculture Component
County Agriculture Extension Station          m2         200.0     200.0   100.0
Ordinary Agriculture Extension Station        no          16.0       16.0   100.0
County Seed Station                           m2       2,000.0    2,000.0   100.0
Cotton Seed Delinting                         m2       4,600.0    4,600.0   100.0
Corn Drying Plant                             m2       5,000.0    5,000.0   100.0
Low-yielding land improvement (fertilization)  mu     52,200.0   52,200.0   100.0
Agriculture Machinery Repairing network       m2         400.0     400.0   100.0
Seed Ginnery                                  m2       2,150.0    2,150.0   100.0
Agriculture Machinery Repairing Center        no.          1.0        1.0   100.0
Agriculture Extension Training Center         m2        1,200.0    1,200.0   100.0
Animal Husbandry Component
Pasture Fencing                               mu       5,000.0    5,000.0   100.0
Karbasman Semicoarse Experiment Station       m2       2,398.0    2,398.0   100.0
Ordinary Animal Husbandry Extension Station   m2          18.0       18.0   100.0
Mixed Crop and Livestock                     group        10.0       10.0   100.0
Animal Fattening Base                         no.          1.0        1.0   100.0
PMO Living Facilities                         m2         400.0     400.0   100.0



- 20 -
SAR                  % of
Project Item                 Unit   Estimated    Actual   Completed
G. Yerqiang River Management Office
Kaqun Hydropower Station
Powerhouse and Associated Structures           no.           1.0 1.0          100.0
Tailrace                                       km           3.2        3.2   100.0
Diversion Canal                                km          12.6       12.6   100.0
Mechanical and electrical equipment            set          3.0        3.0   100.0
Metal Structure Manufacture and Installation  ton         427.0      427.0   100.0
Auxiliary Buildings                            m2       10,000.0   10,060.0   100.6
Transmission Line
Shache Central Switchyard                     kVA       2x 10000   2x 10000    100.0
Maigaiti Switchyard 110 kV                    kVA        2x6300    Ix6300      50.0
Maigaiti Switchyard 35 kV                     kVA        2x5000    2x5000    100.0
Kaqun - Shache transmission line 110 kV        km          48.0       48.0   100.0
Shache - Pailou transmission line 110 kV       km          66.8       66.8   100.0
Pailou - Maigaiti transmission line 35 kV      km           10.2      10.2   100.0
Kaqun - Yechen transmission line 110 kV        km          48.0       48.0   100.0
East Bank Main Canal                           km          28.3       28.3   100.0
Canal Lining                                   km          56.5       56.5   100.0
Observation well                               no.         68.0       68.0   100.0
Equalizer Experiment Area                      m2         600.0      600.0   100.0
Training Center                                m2        6,100.0    7,500.0   123.0
Paise Substation                               m2          36.0       36.0   100.0
PMO Living Facilities                          m2          21.9       30.0   136.9
H. Prefecture
Agriculture Component
Agriculture Extension Center                   m2        1,000.0    1,000.0   100.0
Seed Inspection/Certification Center           m2            1.0       1.0   100.0
Agriculture Machinery Training Center          m2          102.4     102.4   100.0
PMO Living Facilities                          m2         400.0      342.0    85.5
2. Weigan Subproject
A. Kuche County
Irrigation Component
Construction of Irrigation Canals              km         164.3      173.5   105.6
Construction of Drainage Canals                km         225.0      226.1   100.5
Management Buildings                           m2         960.0    1,240.0   129.2
Land Reclamation                               mu      225,000.0  225,000.0   100.0
Low-yielding land improvement                  mu      228,000.0  228,000.0   100.0
Road Construction                              km           8.3        8.3   100.0
Pastoral and Irrigation Works                  km          37.0       37.0   100.0
Agriculture Component
Transmission Lines and one Switch yard 10 kV   km          48.0       40.0    83.3
Forest Belts                                   mu        5,000.0    2,000.0    40.0
Road Construction                              km          20.0       20.0   100.0
Wells                                          no.          7.0        7.0   100.0
Civil works                                    m2        3,049.0    3,049.2   100.0
Demonstration base                             m2         947.0      947.0   100.0
Agriculture Service Stations                   m2        2,060.0    3,502.0   170.0
Agriculture Extension Stations                 m2        2,280.0    3,108.5   136.3



-21 -
SAR                  % of
Project Item                 Unit   Estimated    Actual   Completed
Agriculture Machinery Service Station         m2        1,792.0    1,793.0   100.1
County Seed Station                           m2          740.0     692.5    93.6
Seed supply points                            m2        2,000.0    2,000.0   100.0
Animal Husbandry Component
Feed mills                                    no.           1.0       1.0   100.0
Pump wells                                    no.           5.0       5.0   100.0
Shelters                                      no.         20.0        6.0    30.0
Breeding stations                             no.          20.0       7.0    35.0
Dipping vats                                  no.           3.0       3.0   100.0
Township Station                              no.           3.0       3.0   100.0
Township substations                          no.           8.0       8.0   100.0
County Center                                 m2          166.0     166.0   100.0
B. Xinhe County
Irrigation Component
Construction of Irrigation Canals             km          159.1     159.7   100.4
Construction of Drainage Canals               km          250.7     251.7   100.4
Management Buildings For Canals               m2          800.0     800.0   100.0
Xinsha Main Canal Rehabilitation              km           64.6      64.6   100.0
Land Reclamation                              mu      160,000.0  160,000.0   100.0
Low-yielding land improvement                 mu      247,000.0  247,000.0   100.0
Pastoral Irrigation Works                   Y 10,000       24.0      24.0   100.0
No. 2 Branch Canal Lining of Sangtam Farm   Y 10,000       16.9       15.4    91.1
Sangtam Road                                  km          20.1       16.1    80.1
Agriculture Component
Sangtam Transmission Line                     km          38.3       38.3   100.0
Low-voltage power supply line                 km           20.0      20.0   100.0
Sangtam Windbreak Forest Belt                 mu        5,000.0     710.0    14.2
Sangtam Road                                  km          20.0       16.6    83.0
Sangtam Farm Well/Switchyard                  no.           7.0       7.0   100.0
Buildings                                     m2        4,000.0    3,967.1    99.2
Seed Stations                                 m2        5,443.0    5,443.1   100.0
Agriculture Extension Center and Stations     m2        5,460.0    5,358.6    98.1
Agriculture Machinery Center                  m2        2,423.0    2,423.0   100.0
County Agriculture Machinery School /civil works  m2      389.7     389.7   100.0
High Yield Agriculture demonstration Plots    mu         200.0      300.0   150.0
Animal Husbandry Component
Manalik Pasture Improvement                   mu            1.0       1.0   100.0
Shelters                                      no.           3.0       3.0   100.0
Pump wells                                    no.           1.0       1.0   100.0
Feed mills                                    no.           1.0       1.0   100.0
Dipping Vats                                  no.           3.0       3.0   100.0
Breeding Station                              no.          10.0      10.0   100.0
Township Animal Husbandry Service Sta.        no.           7.0       7.0   100.0
PMO Living Facilities                         m2        1,133.0    1,133.0   100.0



-22 -
SAR                  % of
Project Item                 Unit   Estimated    Actual   Completed
C. Shaya County
Irrigation Component
Construction of Canals                        km          127.1     136.3   107.2
Construction of Drainage Canals               km          187.9     196.1   104.3
Forest Belt along Main Canal and Road         km           50.0      43.9    87.8
Land Reclamation                              mu      185,000.0  185,000.0   100.0
Low-yielding land improvement                 mu      350,000.0  350,000.0   100.0
Xinken Road                                   km           11.2      11.2   100.0
Agriculture Component
Buildings                                     m2        5,170.0    5,170.0   100.0
Transmission Line and Well                    km           13.0      12.0    92.3
Low-voltage power supply line                 km           12.0      14.0   116.7
Wells                                         no.           5.0       6.0   120.0
Windbreak Forest Belt                         mu        2,800.0    2,861.0   102.2
Hailou General Service Station                m2          500.0    1,334.7   266.9
County Agriculture Extension Demonstration Base  m2     1,038.0    1,038.0   100.0
Agriculture Extension Stations                m2        3,060.0    3,420.4   111.8
Seed Processing Plant                         m2        2,155.0    6,150.0   285.4
County Seed Station                           m2        2,200.0    2,200.0   100.0
Agriculture machinery center                  m2        1,108.0    1,108.0   100.0
High Yield Demonstration Area                 mu        2,000.0   25,630.0  1281.5
Animal Husbandry Component
Pasture Improvement                           mu            2.5       2.5   100.0
Shelters                                      no.          24.0       2.0      8.3
Pump Well                                     no.           4.0         -      0.0
Dipping vats                                  no.           7.0       7.0   100.0
Breeding stations                             no.           9.0       9.0   100.0
County Animal Husbandry Service Center        m2            1.0       1.0   100.0
Township Stations                             no.           1.0       1.0   100.0
Mixed Crop/livestock Expansion                no.           3.0       3.0   100.0
D. llaichen County
Ahebulong Head Work                           no.          10.0       9.8    98.0
E. Prefecture
Irrigation Component
Quality inspection center                     m2        1,545.0    1,545.0   100.0
Water/saltmonitoring                          no.       1,100.0    1,100.0   100.0
Construction of Canals                        km            2.8       2.8   100.0
Agriculture Component
One Radar Station, indictor shows the range of radar   km  500.0    500.0   100.0
Agriculture School                            km        1,000.0    1,000.0   100.0
Kuche Experiment Station of Xinjiang AAS      no.       2,000.0    2,000.0   100.0
Animal Husbandry Component
Cashmere Goat Base                            m2           2.0        2.0   100.0
Prefecture PMO                                m2        8,400.0     800.0      9.5
Management Building                           m2         800.0      800.0   100.0
Prefecture Training Center                    m2        4,000.0         -      0.0



- 23 -
SAR                  % of
Project Item                 Unit   Estimated    Actual   Completed
3. Ecology Restoration Subproject
A. Basin Restoration Preparation Work
Training of Main River Course               Y 10,000       181.0     181.0   100.0
Diversion Gate of Daxihaiz Reservoir        Y 10,000        10.0      10.0   100.0
Patam Diversion Gate                        Y 10,000       29.0       29.0   100.0
Base Construction                           Y 10,000       25.0       25.0   100.0
Well Field Construction                     Y 10,000       80.0       90.0   112.5
Diversion Canal                             Y 10,000        10.0      10.0   100.0
Irrigation works                            Y 10,000       22.0       34.0   154.5
Infrared Remote Sensing                     Y 10,000      140.0      153.0   109.3
Preparation of Monitoring Station           Y 10,000       74.0       80.0   108.1
Other Works                                 Y 10,000       20.0       20.0   100.0
B. Buildings
Management Buildings                           m2       8,700.0    8,000.0    92.0
Aksu Management Division                       m2       1,500.0      600.0    40.0
Alar Station                                   m2         807.0      807.0   100.0
Yinbaza Station                                m2       1,100.0    1,100.0   100.0
Tieganli Station                               m2         450.0      450.0   100.0
C. Instrument and Equipment
Machinery and Equipment                        set        605.0      605.0   100.0
Building Material and Fertilizer               set      2,000.0    2,000.0   100.0



- 24 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Key Operation Indicators in SAR/Present Report       Unit           SAR Estimated    ICR Estimated
Yerqiang Subproject
Wasteland Reclamation                             '000 ha                 42.00           42-07
Low-yield Land Improvement                        '000 ha                 62.05           62.05
Canal Lining and Rehabilitation                     km                   558.39          563.39
Drainage Canal Construction                         km                   137.00           143.20
Well Fields                                         no                   260.00           199.00
Power Generation                                   MW                     21.00           21.00
Energy Sales 1997                                  GWh                     97.9            65.00
Power Sales at full operation                     106 yuan                 22.9            29.50
Operating Costs 1997                              106 yuan                 4.50            8.8.0
Power Tariff                                     fen/kWh           22.5 fen/kWh      45 fen/kWh
Total Production at Full Development
Rice                                           '000 ton                  31.3             37.7
Wheat                                          '000 ton                 454.4            382.7
Corn                                           '000 ton                 280.9            370.8
Cotton                                          '000 ton                 99.2            161.5
Legumes                                        '000 ton                 133.0            100.2
Vegetable                                      '000 ton                 180.9             56.3
Household Income
Reclaimed per household                          Yuan                   7,600          23,470
Low-yield per household                          Yuan                   4,282            4,190
Stable area per household                        Yuan                   5,329           13,900
Weigan Subproject
Wasteland Reclamation                             '000 ha                 38.00            38.00
Low-yield Land Improvement                        '000 ha                 55.00           55.00
Canal Lining and Rehabilitation                     km                   517.97          536.96
Drainage Canal Construction                         km                   663.57          673.90
Well Fields                                         No.                   29.00           26.00
Total Production at Full Development
Rice                                           '000ton                   11.5             13.0
Wheat                                          '000 ton                 168.2            142.9
Corn                                           '000 ton                141.10            157.8
Cotton                                          '000 ton                 35.5             72.2
Legumes                                        '000 ton                 136.6             35.5
Household Income at full development
Reclaimed Area                                   Yuan                  10,107          25,940
Low Yield Land                                   Yuan                   3,906          20,800
Stable Area                                      Yuan                  10,316           12,850



- 25 -
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study              Purpose as defined at     Status          Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Model test/study of the intake To verify the hydraulic  Completed  The data obtained from the test
structure                 design                                have been used for the modifica-
tion of the structure design
Model test for the prevention To find out the measures that   Completed  The results from the test and
of frost damage in forebay   have to be taken to protect the    study have been applied to guide
structures from damage due to         the design and to optimize the
freezing                              selection of the pumps
Study of roughness under    To optimize the measures of   Completed  The results of the study have
different linings        canal lining                           been used for guiding the design
and construction of the irrigation
canals
Analysis of environmental   To review the possible nega-   Completed  The model has be developed and
impact due to various envi-  tive impacts on the environ-       used for the monitoring
ronmental factors and estab-  ment and establish a model to
lishment of a mathematical   monitor various environ-
model for monitoring envi-  mental factors
ronmental damage
Study for the improvement   To modify the existing equip-  Completed  The results have been used to
of delinting equipment   ment for energy saving and             improve the operation of the
reduction of operating cost           equipment and savings in energy
and operating costs were
observed
Study on irrigation system    To establish a sound inigation  Completed  The results have been used for
optimization             system for increasing the              guiding the water management
efficiency of water use               organizations to use the water
more efficiently



- 26 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Estimated at Appraisal   Actual/Latest Estimate
No.               Description                Y Million  $ Million     Y Million   $ Million
A. Yerqiang Subproject                          490.4     93.9           783.6    113.2
Irrigation and Drainage                    316.4      60.6           513.1      74.1
Drain/Soil Monitoring                         4.7      0.9            11.9       1.7
Hydropower                                  115.4     22.1           175.4      25.3
Agriculture Support Services                 32.3      6.2            53.2       7.7
Animal husbandry Support Services            21.6      4.1            30.0       4.3
B. Weigan Subproject                            474.3     90.9           739.5    102.3
Irrigation and Drainage                    400.5      76.7           666.4      92.2
Drain/Soil Monitoring                         3.5      0.7             2.0       0.3
Agriculture Support Services                41.2       7.9            48.0       6.6
Animal husbandry Support Services            16.8      3.2             7.7       1.0
Mix Crop/Livestock Farning                    7.1      1.4             6.6       0.9
Pasture Development                           5.2      1.0             8.8       1.2
C. Others                                       114.5     21.9            42.1       6.0
Technical Assistance, Studies and Training    9.8      1.9            28.4       4.1
Agriculture Support Services                 90.6     17.3            10.3       1.4
Animal Husbandry Support Services            14.1      2.7             3.4       0.5
D. Ecorestoration/Environment                    28.0      5.4            30.3       4.5
Total Project Cost                        1,107.1    212.1          1,595.6    225.9
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
At Appraisal                     Actual/Last Estimate
Project Description      Y million   $ million                 Y million   $ million
IDA                             652.4        125.0                    904.4        128.0
Region & Prefecture             197.9         37.9                    285.7         40.5
County & Farmer                 191.2         36.6                    298.9         42.3
Central Government               66.2         12.7                    106.6         15.1
Total                  1,107.1       212.1                   1,595.6       225.9



- 27 -
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Appraisal Estimate              Actual Estimate
Entity              FIRR       NPV       EIRR       FIRR       NPV      EIRR
(%)   (Y million)/a  (%)       (/)   (Y million)/a  (%)
Irrigation
Yerqiang                         -       1,326.0      36       26.1    2,057.0    36.4
Weigan                           -        858.0       33       17.6       848.0    30.4
Seed Farm                       24          6.3       29       17.0         2.2    23.0
Livestock
Mixed Crop and Sheep                        7.34      23                   14.3    30.0
Pasture Based Sheep and Goat               30.08      30                   31.0    40.0
Sheep Stud Farm                 12          0.45               14           0.22   28.0
Seed Processing
Seed Ginneiy (new constructed)    24        6.99      39       21           6.06   30.0
Seed Ginnery (rehabilitated)    13          0.55       -       16           1.0    30.0
Cotton Seed Delinting           12          0.90      16.      14           1.89    18.0
Hydropower                        19        173.67     23        12         82.0    18.0
Overall of the Project                               34                           33.0
/a Discounted at 12 percent.



-28 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-            Original    Revised
Agree-                 nant   Present  fulfillment  fulfillment
ment      Section     type   Status     date       date    Description of covenant          Comments
Project  PA Schedule 2,   5      C    At all times           PMO will be maintained Has been in place since 1989 and
Para. I                                             and adequate qualified  successfully operated until the end of
staffing at all levels    the project
PA Schedule 2,   1       C     Each year            Xinjiang will comply    All audit report have been submitted
Para. 2                                             with the financial report- since the project started.
ing requirement
PA Schedule 2,  11       C     12/15 each           Xinjiang will ensure that Fertilizer has been made available to
Para. 3                       year report to        adequate supplies of    farmers. A total of about 40,000 tons
the Bank            fertilizer are made  has been procured by the Regional
available to farmers  Government. Reports have been sub-
mitted in the yearly supervision Mis-
sion which generally occurred in
September.
PA Schedule 2,  11       C      03/15/92            Wasteland leases will   PMO gave us in September 1992
Para. 4                         provide             give preference to land- county by county allocation of land,
report            less or poor farm house- which is mainly to the poor and land-
holds                less within the townships. A more
detailed report was provided in 1996
PA Schedule 2,  12       C     3115/92 hold         Extension guidelines will Extension guidelines were prepared
Para. 5                        workshop             be prepared satisfactory  in September 1991 after a workshop
and 03/15/93         to the Bank and utilize  in Dec. 1990. Document was submit-
develop            these for training    ted to the IDA for review in March
guidelines                                1991. Subsequently the Govemment
implemented the guidelines.
PA Schedule 2,   5            02/15/92 and          Appoint an independent The panel was first appointed
Para. 6                         for yearly         technical panel to review 01/15/92 and in June every year there
reviews            the project annually    have been meeting. The last panel
meeting was in August 1997. The
panel has helped to reduce cost,
revise technical components to meet
objectives of the project.
PA Schedule 2,  12      C    06/15/93 and           Provide a report for com- The PMO has provided cotton prices
Para. 8                        for yearly           ment each year showing and their analysis each year. There
reports 03/15        price analysis and pro-  national price increases have given a
duction incentives pro-  huge incentive to grow cotton. Grain
vided for farmers to grow areas have declined by 20% while
cotton.              cotton areas have increased by about
75%. There is no necessity to give
incentives for producing cotton. The
covenant is irrelevant now.
PA Schedule 2,  12       C    06/15/93 and          Provide a report for com- All incremental grain is sold in the
Para. 7                       reports 06/15         ment each year showing free market since 1992. In fact there
every year          analysis of prices for   is only about 5% of the grain pro-
grain for previous year  duced that is sold at negotiated
and ensure that incre-   prices. Despite the strong
mental production is sold competition for grain from cotton
in the free market.  and there has been a reduction grain
area by 20% there has been an
increase of grain production 6%
every year since 1990 due to
increased yield increases due to irri-
gation. The covenant seems to be
irrelevant now.



- 29 -
Cove-            Original    Revised
Agree-                 nant   Present  fulfillment  fulfillment
ment      Section     type    Status     date        date    Description of covenant           Comments
PA Section 2,    2      NYD      12/31/95            Yehe Power Company   Yehe Power Company was formed in
Para 9                                                internal cash generation  1994 and it was essentially corpora-
will account for 15%    tized and is financially autonomous.
YHPC capital expendi-  The company does have intemally
tures starting from   generated cash reserves. At this junc-
12/31/95              ture YHPC has no hydropower
investments in the basin.
PA Section 2,    2      NYD  -12/31/99 and           Charge water rates to    A plan to raise water charges was
Para 10.                (have     plan of            recover all O&M and a  presented to the Mission 09/15/94.
presented  O&M by              portion of the capital    However water charges were raised
the plans)  12/31/93           costs; and provide a plan from .2 fen/m3 to .6 fen/m3 in 1992
for O&M and for water  even as the project construction was
charges by 12/31/93.   started and when benefits were not
realized. The prefecture government
is now planing to corporatize the
river basin management office to
manage the entire water management
so as to ensure accountability and
there is full cost recovery.
PA Schedule 2,   2       C         NA                Ensure that charges for  All animal husbandry services have
Para 10.                                              services for AH stations implemented user charge which
recover the costs of the  farmers have to pay for services
services.
Covenant Class:                                                                   Status:
I= Accounts/audits                  8 = Indigenous people                      C   = covenant complied with
2= Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting      CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries  10 = Project implementation not            CP  = complied with partially
3   Flow and utilization of project      covered by categories 1-9             NC  = not complied with
funds                         11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral             NYD= not yet due
4 = Counterpart funding                  budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the            allocation
project or executing agency   12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants              regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement       13 = Other
TABLE 1 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP)



- 30 -
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of                     Planned                    Revised                    Actual
project cycle            Weeks    US$'000            Weeks   US$'000            Weeks  US$'000
Preparation to appraisal              n.a.       n.a.            n.a.        n.a.           90.0     233.1
Appraisal                            n.a.        n.a.            n.a.        n.a.           50.0      123.8
Negotiations to Board Approval        n.a.       n.a.            n.a.        n.a.           12.2      38.3
Supervision/a                        31.5        55.2            28.7       59.2            84.7     238.1
Completion                            7.0        19.7             7.0        18.0           11.4      51.8
Total                     n.a.        n.a.            50.5     173.990         345.025  794.637
/a Since task budgeting began in FY96.
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Specialized staff skills represented   Imple-  Devel-
Stage of project cycle   Month/   No. of    Days             /a                mentation    opment    Type of
year    persons  in field                                status /b    objectives  problemsjd
Identification        05/89      2        9               FTM, EO
Preparation           09/89      2        14              FTM, PE
Preappraisal          04/90      11       24    FTM, EO, FA, AG, LS, PE, GS, IE,
EN, RS, FS
Appraisal             09/90      8        19    FTM, FA, AG, LS, DR, PE, GS, IE
Supervision 1         09/91      1        8                 FTM                  N/A           I          -
Supervision 2         05/92      3        8              FTM, PS, DS              I            I          -
Supervision 3         09/92      7        8       FTM, PS, EN, LS, WS, IE, GS     2           2           -
Supervision 4         10/93      4        9            FTM, AG, IE, GS            1           2           -
Midterm Review        10/94      3        10             FTM, IE, GS
Supervision 5         11/95      5        7          FTM, PS, IE, GS, EO          HS          2           -
Supervision 6         12/96      4        8            TM, ID, WR, IE            HS           S           -
Supervision 7         06/97      5        10           TM, EO, AN, GS            HS           S
Completion            11/97      7        11      FTM, PS, LS, FA, PS, IE, GS     HS          S           -
/a  TM: Task Manager; FTM: Former Task Manager; LS: Livestock Specialist; AN: Anthropologist; AG: Agriculture
Specialist; IE: Irrigation Engineer; EO: Economist; ID: Institutional Development; PS: Procurement Specialist;
FA: Financial Analyst; EN: Environmentalist; GS: Groundwater Specialist; DR: Drainage Specialist; PE: Power
Engineer
/b  1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory.
Ic  Typical problems included: implementation delays in technical assistance and studies.



-31-                           ANNEX A
ANNEX A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A Bank Mission composed of Messrs./Mmes. D. Gunaratnam, Zhang Chaohua,
Wang Xiaolan (Bank); and P. Jiang, D. Masterton, Hu Shunong and Zhang Weizhen
(Consultants) visited Xinjiang Province November 19-30 to discuss implementation
completion of the project. The Mission visited the project sites in southern Xinjiang
(Weigan and Yerqiang), had discussions with the PMOs at Regional, prefecture and
county levels to review the completion of the project. The Mission had a final wrap-up
meeting with members of Regional PMO members and Vice Governor on November 29,
1997. The Mission would like to thank the provincial authorities for the courtesy,
cooperation and hospitality extended to the Mission during our stay in Xinjiang. The
following summarizes the topics discussed and the agreements reached.
Project Implementation
2.    Irrigation and Drainage. The ICR Mission noted that almost all the physical
works for the drainage and irrigation, land reclamation, low yield land improvement are
completed. The progress of all works is as follows:
Revised SAR Estimate    Actual Completed  %
Description          Yerqiang   Weigan    Yerqiang  Weigan completed
Wasteland Reclamation ('000 mu)    630     570         630      570    100
Low-Yield Land Improvement ('000 mu)    931  825       931      825    100
Canal Lining (km)                  558     518         563      537    102
Drainage Canals (km)               137     769         143      768    100
Wells (no.)                        260      29         199       26      78
3.    All the physical works have been completed except for some 10 to 15 percent of
field structures for the reclaimed areas and a smaller percentage for low-yield land
improvement have still to be completed. In addition, there are a total of 61 wells that need
to be installed in Yerqiang. The canal lining completed for both Yerqiang and Weigan is
more than planned in the project. The lining length does not include many lateral and
sublateral canals undertaken by the farmers. In general the works undertaken were of
good quality and the impacts were very significant. The only outstanding issue seems to
be the completion of the on-farm structures for the reclaimed areas and some of the
low-yield areas and additional wells for Yerqiang basin in particular.
4.    The impact of irrigation canal lining construction and drainage canal construction
are very significant. Based on the information provided a total of 980 km of canal lining
was constructed and the estimated amount of water saved is about 940 million m3 per



- 32 -                        ANNEX A
year. This is about 1 million m3 of water per km of canal lined. The lining of a small
section of canals were affected by frost heave but performed well after the repairs. The
lining of canals has dramatically reduced the losses and shortened the time of water
delivery by 75 percent. Although the physical works have been completed and operations
and maintenance of all the systems have begun it is noted that water charges are still very
low and are unable to meet the major repair and depreciation requirements.
5.    Weigan Basin Management Office has installed a real-time water flow monitoring
system for the Weigan Irrigation Water Management Bureau. The system comprises of
52 canal elevation tele-observation points, covering the Weigan Irrigation Project, with
29 transmitters sending out signals for every 1 m3 change in canal elevation and one
monitoring center which collects flow data from transmitters and processes the data
before saving in corresponding data bank. Upon successful testing, the system will be put
into operation in the next spring irrigation season. Using the system, more flexible and
optimal water dispatching water among three counties in Weigan River Basin and more
efficient water use are expected. The mission would encourage that Weigan Basin
Management Office complete the monitoring system for the whole Weigan and
Yerqiang Irrigation Systems and also to use it to monitor the drainage flows.
6.    Salt and Water Monitoring. The Mission was extremely impressed with the
work undertaken by Tsinghua University for the saltwater monitoring of both basins and
the results of the study are very significant in establishing a stable and sustainable oasis.
The main areas covered by the study are as follows:
(a)   Basinwide fundamentals
(i)   Identification of land utilization by satellite images for remote
sensing
(ii)   Meteorological observation
(b)   Water and salt balance of Weigan and Yerqiang irrigated areas
(c)   Groundwater monitoring
(d)   Soil, water and salt monitoring in the top Im soil
(e)   Monitoring of the effects of drainage canals
(f)   Evaporation from bare soils with shallow water tables
(g)   Water and salt monitoring information systems
(h)   Estimation of water consumption of different types of lands
(i)    Groundwater balance
(j)   Transformation between surface water and groundwater
7.    Agricultural Component. At prefecture the level all planned construction has
been completed for experimentation, agricultural extension, agricultural school,
agricultural machinery training and seed calibration.
8.    At the county level, 5 (6 planned) agricultural extension stations have been
established and 1 (1 planned) rehabilitated. At the township level 89 (97 planned) stations
are in place.



- 33 -                        ANNEX A
9.    Agricultural Machinery Service Stations have been established in 6 (6 planned)
counties and in 10 (10 planned) townships, with Machinery Repair Stations in 4 (3
planned) counties, Machinery Training Stations in 2 (1 planned) counties, and 6 sets (6
planned) of Agricultural machinery have been provided.
10.   Seed farms have been established in 5 (5 planned) counties with Seed Processing
Plants and Seed Stations in 9 (8 planned) Counties and 1 (1 planned) township.
Development of Kqilik, Sangtamnand Xinken farms in Weigan are 92 percent, 82 percent
and 100 percent complete respectively, but 20 to 30 percent of the crop land is yet to be
brought into production and establishment of windbreaks in Kqilik and Sangtam is only
40 percent and 14 percent complete respectively because of high seedling mortality due
to poor soil conditions.
11.   Cotton Seed Ginning and Delinting plants have been established in 8 (8) counties
and one Corn Drying Plant established in Yecheng county. Cotton seed ginning capacity
has exceeded the planned figure in order to meet increased demand, and the seed farms
and seed stations are established as planned.
12.   The total investment in agricultural services and production has reached 126
percent of the target level in Yerqiang and 134 percent in Weigan with some differences
between counties and components. Investments are 100 percent to 140 percent of the
planned for different counties in Yerqiang while in Maigaiti a big cost saving on low
yield land improvement reduced total investments to about 78 percent. In Weigan the
actual investments for each county range from 113 to 141 percent of the planned.
13.   Development of Agricultural Services Agricultural extension  services
development has been carried out according to the plan. Thanks to the 89 additional
Township Agricultural Extension Stations, services have been made more readily
available to about 350 ,000 agricultural households. However, due to difficulties in
preparation of specifications and tender documents the provision of some equipment is
behind schedule. The construction of agricultural extension stations is on schedule, the
staffing of those stations at Township level has not been done as recommended in the
SAR. The numbers of staff assigned to township stations compared to the SAR targets are
382 to 492 for Yerqiang and 201 to 248 for Weigan. The number of technical staff in
township stations has not been increased as proposed and the extension worker-farmer
ratios are far below the proposed level, i.e. 1:1050 for Yerqiang and 1:600 for Weigan.
The mission noted during the visits to County and Township stations in Yerqiang
that some county stations have excessive staff while most township stations are
inadequately staffed, and some townships have extension worker-farmer ratios of
lower than 1:2,000.
14.   Animal Husbandry The animal husbandry component has had a significant
impact on the local economy. At the prefecture level all Research Facilities for Bahutai
and Tuohai Experimental Farms and Training Facilities have been completed. Such
investment items not implemented in the Weigan counties as Livestock Shelters,



-34-                          ANNEX A
Watering Wells, Dip Vats and Artificial Insemination/Breeding Stations have been
debited to Akesu Prefecture but it is not clear whether these facilities are located in
Baichen County.
15.   Animal Husbandry Extension Stations have been established in 8 (9 planned)
counties and in 93 (93 planned) townships with 19 (19 planned) Substations.
16.   The number of Artificial Insemination/Breeding Stations established is 31 in
comparison with the planned 44, including 5 in Baichen County. However, the decision
to reduce the number of Stations from the initial 54 in the SAR to 44 and subsequently to
31 is rational. The services of Artificial Insemination/Breeding Stations including sires,
semen collection and insemination services become less needed because high quality
semen is made available through the Prefecture and then insemination service is provided
by township stations and substations.
17.   Only 2 (2 planned ) livestock feed mills have been established compared with 9 in
the initial SAR plan. The decision to reduce the number of small local mills is logical
because of the establishment of large livestock feed mill facilities at Prefecture level. The
four Roughage Ammoniation Plants initially planned for Yerqiang were all eliminated as
the increase in liquid ammonia price made roughage treatment not viable.
18.   Other items with variations in target levels include Livestock Shelters: 44 actual
against 80 planned , Watering Wells: 8 actual against 12 planned. The reason is that
livestock-owning families have been able to build more modest shelters and wells using
their own labor and materials at lower cost. Although the number of shelters and wells
financed through the project is reduced the total number including those constructed by
farmers from their own resources is higher than the planned figure.
19.   Establishment and expansion of Livestock Breeding farms for supply of improved
genetic material, Kuche, Bahutai and Tuohai at Prefecture Level and Karbasman, Xamaili
and Maigaiti at County Level have been conducted. Although work at Kuche is said to be
complete, machinery purchase, pasture improvement and forage/fruit tree cultivation are
all below the target levels. For the two farms visited, i.e. Maigaiti and Kuche, targets for
livestock numbers and output of improved genetic stock have not been met. The cash
flow statement for Maigaiti Stud Farm shows a steady increase in net profit although
costs do not include investments, financing costs or depreciation. Nevertheless, based on
the limited information available during the visit to Maigaiti it is likely that gross income
in 1997 including manure value will exceed the stated figure by Y 30,000 to Y 50,000.
20.   It is clear that the benefits of the animal husbandry component have been realized.
Those benefits include: (a) increased coverage of animal health and production services;
(b) increase in livestock feed available and improved feed utilization; (c) increased
pasture production; (d) improved pasture utilization; (e) increased livestock population
and improved genetic resources; (f) improved production performance; and (g) increased
production and farm family incomes from livestock.



-35 -                        ANNEX A
21.   Restoration of the Tarim  River Ecosystem. The ecosystem  restoration
component has been finished. Most of the monitoring stations, management buildings,
equipment procurement, along with several controlled gates for the Tarim River have
been completed. A detailed infrared remote sensing map has been completed for the
whole Tarim River Basin. Civil works for the Daxihaize Reservoir, Patam Diversion
Gate, etc. have been completed and about 25 million m3 of water was transferred to the
lower reach in 1996 and about 120 million m3 in 1997. As for institutional reform the
Xinjiang Government has issued three regulations on the formation of the Tarim River
Basin Management Committee (TRBMC) and the Tarim River Basin Management
Bureau (TRBMB) with letters stating the detailed requirements for the scope of work and
responsibilities of the TRBMB. In the follow-up Tarim Basin II Project the TRBMB is
going to be upgraded to a Tarim Basin Commission (TBC) which has the rights to invest
in projects.
22.   Financial Management. The mission is pleased with the Provincial PMO's good
recording system of the project's financial accounting information. The mission noted
that up to the end of 1996 the shortage of counterpart funding had been a constantly
constraint comparing with the smooth physical construction of this project. Although the
counterpart funding has been put into place in 1997 and the project has been completed,
the mission would still like to emphasize the absolutely importance of the timely
counterpart funding. Especially with the Tarim II Project, the Bank expect the firm
commitment from the government on this counterpart funding issue.
23.   The mission is informed that the average replenishment time from the Bank to the
borrower's Special Account is 20 days and the borrower is quite happy with this
arrangement. However, due to the borrower's heavy dependence on reimbursement from
the Special Account, the borrower suggests the total amount in the Special Account be
increased from US$7 million to US$10 million.
24.   The mission is pleased to know that the internal audit system from the county,
prefecture up to the autonomous region has been operating strictly under the related rules
and regulations. Training on auditing issues has been provided to all the auditing staff
involved at each level. The autonomous region auditing bureau reviews every underlying
document to the SOE such as procurement material, invoices and bills of lading and
evidence of payment. The mission feels the accounting system and audit controls are
adequate.
25.   The mission paid the field visits to the three project counties in Weigan and two
counties in Yerqiang area, and met with the finance staff in the enterprises financed the
Bank such as the Kaqun Hydropower Station and the Seed Station in Weigan and three
seed farms, two cotton ginnery plants in Yerqiang. The mission was informed of the
detailed sources and amounts which would be allocated to the repayment fund. The
mission would like to congratulate on the accountability of the government to fulfill its
debt payment responsibility.



-36 -                          ANNEX A
26.   The mission noted that most of the enterprises visited did not have a complete
financial management system in place due to various reasons. One of the major reasons is
that those enterprises just started operation and the ownership status for most enterprises
is not very clear status in terms of the ownership. The mission was assured that after the
project is fully completed by December 1997, the Xinjiang Regional Government will
conduct detailed evaluation of each component of this project including fixed-asset
evaluation, ownership determination. Xinjiang Regional Government confirmed that
after the evaluation of the enterprises, they will be corporatized and commercialized
with financial autonomy. Xinjiang Government also assured that it will undertake a
special training for the financial staff in those enterprises given their current
weakness in financial management skills by the end of 1998.
27.   Project Covenants The mission noted the following Credit Agreement that is
outstanding and need to be fulfilled:
Project Agreement Section 2 para. 10 states "Charge water rates to
recover all 0 & M and a portion of the capital costs; and provide a plan
for 0 & Mandfor water charges by December 31, 1993. " Despite that the
water charges increased by about 600 percent from 0.2 fen/m3 in 1991 to
1.2 fen/m3 in 1995 which is far inadequate for full cost recovery.
Therefore, the present charges need to be further increased by 400
percent to 4.8 fen/m3 by December 31, 1999.
28.   Follow-up Actions: The only follow-up action is the completion of the on-
farm structures for the reclaimed areas (25 percent of the area) and some of the low
yield areas (10 to 15 percent of the area) for both Yerqiang and Weigan Basins and
completion of installation of additional wells for Yerqiang Basin in particular. In
addition the mission would recommend the continuation of the Salt and Water
monitoring systems as it is important to monitor early warning of salinization in any
part of the basin.



MAP SECTION



CHINA
TARIM RIVER BASIN PROJECT
YERQIANG RIVER BASIN SCHEME
Proe  Works Areas                             Hydroelectric Pwer Plants
StobleYield Lend               S              Proposed
Low Yield Land                        0       Planned
Plonned Reclo- ation                  S       E-sti.g
H Well Fields                                                                                                                                    K
P_pulo P     -renouso Frsts                Rivers
Projed Ar  Boundony                     :X  Resenoins/Lakes
Sate Fnm-s
Cnals to be Lined and Re Built,               Gates
-   Main -ad Bra-h
FtinaC Canls:                            n   Selected Towns /Villages
Main                                  e   County (Xin) Hedq-t-ers                                                            2    .7' -  ets,i  U
Br-nch                                              H PrefectureHaadqaaneru
L~Pr-in- H-edq-itw/                                                          -eIRS25
Dra ns                                         County G-an) Boundaries                                                                                                                          4f
n Dwis to be Edtded                        Pefecdure Bo-ndaries -,
and Rehabilitatd
Branch Drais ta be E-tended          -    Pronince Bondaries
a-d RetrabilitatdP--B d,.
EtisSag Main and Branch             -      International Boundary
ARrUX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RU
3>0 5 MW e_-.-P;<r-L        
7-~~~~~~~~~~ 
E -  -  X\  ,                                                                                                    AKESU
YECG                                                                KASHI. , 
<    _=    i                   ssst                 i                 Fxlrnu              ~~~~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SF 47  SF 51
SF 52          najac0
7o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S 53}l                                                                              SF5
or                                      AN       ova.,       0|T-| 'hTAN
7.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
/.                                              9er he              9          4    7         -       <~~~~~~~1.                           ACH
Hi,                       -'-----                                                               t
7'                                           '         * T                                   ; ntrvlrce,iNbeWodd9XoF                                     ec,]                                                        rci
7~ ~~O                                            7-  30                                                 "'%~  ._qeahh;F8r                00                                       /         Shur



|  5*KU6 874D'  k>  5rd5' C HE--  TaKae  R5  'rl [IBRD 22309R
X#NHE                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHINA
ar ,g g rs -5,t                                      w                                       41-20                         TARIM  RIVER BASIN PROJECT
orarg                                                         WEIGAN RIVER BASIN SCHEME
Prai-et W-rbsA-es:-   River
g       Stable Yield Lend                         Reievrs LAks
so                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Low YeId Lend  S  Hydr- aorr  Po.e Piurra
1                g'  A rPR                                                                                                      Pic ed Relerd -tine                 -   GoStrt.r
P  r     ~      r                                         x l4 #                                                       Case.S ta be Lead and Re-Bald:- Rad
N ~~~tyvevw    ~~~~tv4,~~~'tr~~                            - ~     Main end Bre-nh                           Seine d To-,-  Vilinger
rt: ~~~~~~~ ~~~~,l-lfrr                                                                                e ~~~~~~~~~~~~Cas-ty (Xiani H-odys-v-
Reistina Cana.ls:                           Prefectur H-rdq-nrvr
aSHAYA         A    N                                                                                     Main                                 0   Prv-n I l-edq-arte-s
>. 'r_ Bronch                     Cm         -y PrnfvtrXio-Bondaries
Main Drains:                                Prairece.  jnd-rins
T. Rieir            ' , ;. R-                                                                                             Ta ba Eateeded and Rebuilt         -     intent,onoi Bounday
N. K.                 H
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                                                                                                   5,Oaos o:n aro  ,rrer -'  a as e
_z]^5      ~      akae/D \Lrn 4I 
,1~~~~~~~(t rW                                                7 -                                                                                             fS                                                       '
Arc~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rl l-JaYIsa
-   Oav1,~~~~~'
ira:oc.t2~~                           K                                                                                                ,ro:oc
Basaoo.r~~~~~~~~~  torv~~~~~                                  N          s-<~~~~~~  c    -rs orj~~~~~~~~(~~
sO  J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -                                                                                                                
L /
ssa  ~~~~~~~niNc~~~~~~~~  errs  os-c ~~~~~~~~~~~~APRIL 1991



IBRD 22550R
| |   70'            ~~~75'                 ro-    5-                                  90A                   '
a                                ~~~~CHINA11-
TARIM RIVER BASIN PROJECT                                                               5- 
ECO-RESTORATION COMPONENT
Proposed Offices;
i        Comnprehensive Monitoring and                Irrigated Areas
Manaemen Stations
Management Office                            Populus Prenouso/Euphretica Forests
5        Management Bureau                            Desert
Intermittent Lakes / Rivers
Proposed Monitoring Sations:             -      Existing Roads
*       Existing Meteorological Stations             Project Road                                               At                                            09
Planned Meteorological Stations
Existing Hydrological Stations          a   Selected Towns/Villages
*       Planned Hydrological Stations           0    County (Xian) Headquarters                                                                         Area of Map 
Planned Water Gates                    0    Prefecture Headquarters
t3 Hydro Power Plants                           QW   Province Headquarters                                                                                                       /
*       Groundwater Sounding Well                     County (Xian) Boundaries                                                                                                                                    40-
CL      Groundwater Balance Stations            -    Prefecture Boundaries
35
Forest, Shrub, and GrossPrvneBndre
f3FMeonitoriropng Proins                        Province Boundaries q       
1 Ir Natural Protection Zone                    International Boundary
of Populus Prenouso Forest
:_tt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 'a~    no  > 
X Z 4 4f - - Ms -- ' : W ': ( a: ~~~~~~.                           -. ---.  ...   zk                                        ..  J
*    W  s f>7-  22,   t   AKESU          :   :::  : .            (    ;    0                  KORLA                     r
XAYAR                                                            r
,  j   \                                    /                     |                       '.                         f-,   :  5,.    FU0~~~-~  itlQiAN&  .  r *
_  _  _                      _                             /         Q~~~~~~~~~~                ~~IEMO    ,,;     
m0lYUIji. PjQR  YUT(AN  0   MINFFNG {)
I        d''I         /   HOTN/                  i|                                                                                                                              /         .
APRIL 1991



