Domt
The World:
FOR OMFCIAL m-
E  Repr No. P-5475-CHA
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 93.8 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
TARIM BASIN PROJECT
JULY 31, 1991
Thi document ha a restricted distibution and may be asd by reipiets oniy in the perfonrmae of
their official dies Its contents may not othendse be dilosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 20, 1991)
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
US$1.00 = Y5.22
Yl.0O = US$0.1916
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)       35.31 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (kir)      =   0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)         =   2.47 acres
1 mu                   =   0.067 ha
1 ton (t)                  1,000 kilograms (kg)
-   2,205 pounds (lbs)
1 kg                   =   2.2 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GDP         -     Gross domestic product
ICB         -     International competitive bidding
l,CB        -     Local competitive bidding
O & M       -     Operations and Maintenance
PHO         -     Project Management Office



FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
CHINA
TARIM BASIN PROJECT
Credit and Proect Summary
Borrowers               People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:            Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
Amount:                 SDR 93.8 million (US$125 million equivalent)
Termst                  Standard, with 35 years maturity
Onlendina Terms:        From Ministry of Finance to Regional Government for 20
years including 5 years of grace with interest at 4.3
percent per annum. The foreign exchange risk will be
borne by the Regional Government. On-lending rates to
productive enterprises will be no less than
Agricultural Bank of China charges for loans for
similar purposes and terms.
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign      Total
---     (US$ million)-
Central,
Regional/Prefecture Govts.         38.7        11.8         50.5
County/Townships and farmers       24.4        12.2         36.6
IDA                               58.5         66.5       125.0
Total                             121.6        90.5       212.1
CM___  :     Inmw
Economic Rate
of Return:                                 34 percent (overall)
Yerqiang Component:           36 percent
Weigan Component:              33 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:     Report No. 9338-CHA
MaPSS       IBRD Nos. 22308R and 22309R
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the perfom, ince
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diclosed without World Bank authori;,zmnr?



MEMORANDUM AND RECONMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE TARIM BASIN PROJECT
1.    The following memorandum and recommuendation on a proposed credit for SDR
93.8 million (US$125 million equivalent) to the People's Republic of China ts
submitted for approval. The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms
with 35 years maturity and would help to finance agricultural development in
the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. Proceeds of the IDA credit will be
onlent by the Ministry of Finance to the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region at
an interest rate of 4.3 percent, with repayment over 20 years, including a
five year grace period. On-lending rates to productive enterprises will be no
less than the Agricultural Bank of China charges for loans for similar
purposes and terms. Foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Regional
Government.
Part Is COUNTRY POLICIES AND BAK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
2.   This section discusses China's development problems and prospects, the
key reform priorities at the macroeconomic and sector levels, and the Bank
Group's assistance strategy. A country economic report "China: Between Plan
and Market' (No. 8440-CHA) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May
9, 1990. A new Country Economic Memora.lum, based on a mission to China in
June 1991, is being prepared.
Background
3.    The decade of economic system reforms, introduced after periods of local
and regional experimentation, has magnified the growth impulse of China's
historically high rate of capital accumulation. During the 1980s, GDP growth
was rapid, averaging about 9.5 percent annually. Industrial modernization and
improved incentives increass A the competitiveness of China's manufactures in
the international market anu total merchandise exports grew to almost
13 percent of GDP. State industrial, commercial and transport enterprises now
have greater freedom to determine the composition and pricing of output, to
retain after-tax profits and decide on the disposition of retained earnings.
Fiscal reforms have, in turn, allowed resources previously absorbed by the
Government to be retained by enterprises; this, together with a large degree
of fiscal decentralization, has given provincial authorities -are discretion
in taxation and resource allocation. Administrative decentralization has also
transferred more authority to plan and manage economic activity from the
Central Government to provincial and local bodies, more responsive to local
conditions and more motivated to promote development, although in some cases
with short-run or limited horizons. Direct central control over the economy
has been substantially scaled back by reducing the number of commodities
subject to mandatory plan targets and the share of key products distributed
through state-controlled channels.
4.    China remains an economy where public ownership is dominant, but an
increasingly important share of economic activity is accounted for by other
forms of ownership (e.g., private, collective, foreign joint venture, etc.).
Product markets have been created, first in the rural areas and then in the



-2-
urban sector, which allow producers to trade their above-plan output at freely
determined prices. Financial reforms have dismantled the old monobanking
system and increased the variety of financial institutions, as well as the
volume and scope of financial transactions and instruments. The pronounced
shift away from budgetary support of investment has reinforced the importance
of the financial sector in mobilizing and allocating resources. Lastly,
esternal trade and exchange rate reforms have had a significant impact, and
the creation of several Special Economic Zones and legislation governing
foreign investment and the rights of overseas businesses, paralleled by fiscal
and wage incentives and gradually improving infrastructure provision, have
helped ettract a large volume of foreign capital.
5.    Since the inception of the reforms, the Government has emphasized the
role of incentives and market forces, especially prices, in improving economic
efficiency. In agriculture, a large proportion of output Is sold at prices
that are free. In the industrial sector, the Government has allowed a growing
proportion of products to be sold at market prices outside the plan, and it
has raised the prices of major industrial inputs, including energy. This has
meant that, at the margin, most decisions are being based on prices which
reflect relative scarcities. This is especially true of the collectives and
the township and village enterprises (TVEs). This liberalization of prices
has contributed significantly to the rapid growth of the agricultural and
industrial sectors in the post-reform period.
6.    Since 1979, the average incomes of China's 900 million rural population
more than doubled and absolute poverty receded nationwide. Infant and child
mortality declined, the rate of population growth was slowed and universal
five-year primary education was achieved. China's attempts at transforming
its complex economy in a fairly short span of time have inevitably resulted in
macroeconomic and sectoral as well as institutional imbalances.. In recent
years, the Government has experienced difficulties in combining its growth,
poverty alleviation and reform objectives with maintenance of economic
stability. China's success in achieving growth targets was accompanied by
emerging structural imbalances, but as long as fiscal and monetary policies
remained under control, rapid growth coexisted with stable prices.
7.    As the 1980s progressed, however, China experienced cycles in economic
activity of increasing severity, associated with she transition from a
centrally planned system to one where plan and market coesist. The lag
between administrative decentralization and the creation of an
institutionalized capacity for macromanagement gave rise to excessive monetary
expansion over the 1985-88 period. This stoked inflation. Without new fiscal
measures to offset the decline in traditional revenue sources, the budget
deficit gradually widened from 0.5 percent of GNP in 1985 to 2.9 percent in
1990. The level of state food subsidies to urban consumers, combined with
rising state enterprise losses, have been important factors in China's
budgetary difficulties. The dual pricing system that has evolved with the
emergence of free markets, apart from introducing distortions, continues to
help shelter enterprises from competition by 'softening" their budget
constraints. Slow progress towards more competitive markets that discipline
enterprise behavior has allowed decentralized provincial bureaucracies to push
ahead with unsustainable rates of expansion. As yet, China has been unable to
enforce financial accountability on the state enterprises, so that the effects
of market forces to rationalize capacity or achieve efficient resource



allocation have been blunted. Underlying the soft budget constraint of the
state firms have been employment concerns, heightened by the heavy reliance on
enterprises to provide pensions and housing, and the limited development of
unemployment safety nets. Increasing recognition of the importance of these
lnterconnections has helped move housing and social security reforms towards
the top of the Government's asgenda. Industrial and economic development in
Chbna has also been constrained by inadequate infrastructure. Investments in
transportation, telecomiuncations and energy have lagged behind those in
industry; poor pricing policies contributed both to inefficient use of
capacity and to financing difficulties. As a result, serious bottlenecks in
these key sectors became apparent in the latter part of the 19809.
8.    It was against this background of partial reforms that demand pressures
become pronounced in the first half of 1988, pushing the economy to the limits
of its productive potential. For 1988 as a whole, GDP grew by 11.2 percent,
led by Industrial growth of 20.7 percent, and the consumer price index rose
nearly 20 percent. When, in mid-1988 under these overheated conditions, the
authorities announced plans for a major price reform, i"flation soared as
consumers switched from financial assets into durable consumer goods. Faced
with this crisis, the Government postponed further price liberalization and,
in late 1988, adopted a series of stabilization measures, with inflation
control becoming the most important policy goal for 1989. The main elements
of a medium-term stabilization strategy were translated into actions by early
1989 and continue to be implemented.
9.    During the last two years, China's macroeconomic policies have been
primarily devoted to addressing these inflationary conditions. Underlying the
imbalances were excessive monetary expansion and rising price and enterprise
subsidies. The anti-inflationary policies included cuts in state investment,
tightened control over credit expansion, and higher interest rates, as well as
incentives to enhance exports. This policy response is broadly consistent
with recommendations in the World Bank's earlier 1989 Country Economic
Memorandum (7483-CIA), which emphasized the need tot a credible stabilization
policy but cautioned against a hard and prolonged application of austerity
measures that, in the Chinese context, could result in dislocation and large
production losses, threaten economic vitality and risk stagflation. These
policies proved successful in reducing inflation from 18 percent per annum in
1988 to 2.1 percent in 1990, but they also slowed real GDP growth to 3.9
percent in 1989. Unemployment also increased somewhat in this period, with
several million transient urban workers being forced to return to the
countryside. Macro policy was eased in the second half of 1990, and growth
for the year as a whole picked up to 5 percent. A devaluation of the renminbi
in late 1990, together with a series of price adjustments accommodated by
credit expansion have also pushed up the rate of inflation in early 1991.
10. On the external side, deflationary policies in conjunction with import
controls and an initial devaluation in December 1989 promoted export growth
and enabled China to attain a trade surplus of $11.3 billion in 1990 as
against a deficit of $4.3 billion in 1989. China's foreign exchange reserves
have increased by an estimated $11.6 billion in 1990 to $29.6 billion,
equivalent to about 8 months of 1990 imports, while exchange and gold reserves
together totaled about $34.5 billion. The subsequent further devaluation to
Y 5.21$ in November 1990 should allow China to continue to maintain a trade



-4-
surplus for the immediate future.  China's foreign debt in 1990 was
$46.8 billion, only slightly higher than the end-1989 level.
11. Although economic performance has strengthened markedly since mid-1990,
the number of loss-making state enterprises, inventory build up and sluggish
retail sales warrant attention. The fiscal situation also remains worrisome
since Central Government r'venue is highly inelastic while expenditures show a
tendency to expand under the pressure of financing enterprises' losses and
price subsidies.
12. These issues once again bring to the foreground the need for China to
address, through reform, the fundamental distortions and imbalances in the
economic system. Over the medium term, the sustainability of maintaining
acceptable rates of economic growth in the coming decade hinges upon China's
comuitment to further reform and the openness of its economy, as discussed in
the recent CEM. The major challenge ahead is to maintain a sustained pace of
economic expansion while ensuring that the measures to foster recovery do not
lead to a reemergence of inflation. A major policy priority, therefore, is
continuation of reforms which address the difficulties of enterprises, and
enhance the role of market signals in guiding resource allocation.
13. While recent political and economic developments have affected China's
credit rating and raised borrowing margins, China's debt indicators have not
been significantly affected, as both GNP and exports have risen rapidly. The
debt service-to-exports ratio has remained at about 7-9 percent, well below
China's official policy ceiling for this ratio of 15 percent, with the total
debt-to-exports ratio at about 68.9 percent. Past trends and the current
assessment suggest that the country's growth as well as export potential are
substantial, and that savings behavior is likely to remain stable. The
projected current account trends described above, even in a low case scenario,
do not raise the specter of payment difficulties in the future. China's
creditworthiness for international lending should not therefore be in question
unless there are major changes in the external trade environment.
14. For the future, with continued incremental reforms and macrostability,
China's growth prospects are good. The Government's intention is to achievo
an annual growth rate of 6 percent during the Eighth Five Year Plan (1991-
1995). At this rate of expansion, China should be able to experience single
digit inflation, and, assuming domestic savings remain high, have only modest
current account deficits in the later years of the plan. This rapid income
growth would be reflected ir. higher living standards for the general
population, as economic gains will not be eroded by population growth.
Projections based on current assessments of external trends suggest exports
can grow at some 6-8 percent p.a. over the 1990-96 period, with imports
growing at about the same rate as GNP. The current account deficit under this
base scenario could rise to $5 billion, which is under 1 percent of GffP.
15. Development Strategy. China's long-term development strategy remains to
increase the role of the market for resource allocation purposes while
maintaining public ownership as the dominant form of asset control. Also in
place is the goal of doubling per capita income again by 2000 and achieving
middle-income status by the middle of the 21st century. Despite impressive
progress over the last decade in moving toward market management, China faces
formidable structural problems which cannot be divorced from the issue of



state control over industrial assets. The cbsllenge is to make further
progress toward market management without slipping on social development.
This is important since China remains a poor country, with an annual per
capita income of $360 and pockets of hard-core poverty covering nearly 70
million people, generally in remote and resource-poor areas. In order to
absorb surplus labor from rural areas, and assuming some slippage in China's
population program, sustained, broad-based economic growth will be needed over
the Eighth and Ninth Five Year Plan periods (1991-95 and 1996-2000) to
generate productive employment for a growing, increasingly urban workforce.
Building on the lessons of the 1980s, China will need to develop strategies to
encourage non-inflationary growth while avoiding the stop-go cycles of the
last decade. To achieve this, China will have to make continuous progress in
a number of areas.
16.   The Eighth Five-Year Plan.  Three policy goals underlie the recently-
approved Eighth Plant stability, development and reform. These goals in turn
point to three areas that need priority attention during the plan period:
fiscal and financial reforms, price reform and trade reform. All three would
contribute to addressing the key challenge of the Plan: the structural
adjustment of the industrial sector and, in particular, of the large- and
medium-sized state-owned enterprises (SOEs). While investments in technical
transformation projects, improvements in the contract management system,
promotion of enterprise groups and use of the shareholding system are
important, no real success can be achieved without improvements in the
performance of SOEs both at the central and provincial levels and changes in
the environment in which they operate. This means addressing the pricing and
planning systems they face, the burden of social welfare services they
currently provide, the rigor of financial discipline exerted by banks, and
competition from non-state enterprises and imports. If these reforms can be
promoted within the context of a sound macroeconomic environment, a reasonably
optimistic view of the future of China's economy in the next decade can be
adopted.
17. Fiscal and Financial Reforms. Measures adopted in 1990 to contain the
fiscal deficit only partially addressed the underlying causes, and shifted the
bulk of these obligations to the banking system. These problems can best be
addressed by major and comprehensive tax reform, dealing with the underlying
structural weaknesses in China's public finances--an inelastic revenue system
(tax contracting) and the heavy burden of enterprise and consumer subsidies,
together with rising welfare, defense and administrative expenditures. The
stabilization program, which relied mainly on administrative measures, did not
advance enough the development of mechanisms and institutions of indirect
macroeconomic management and the emergence of more autonomous financial
institutions.  The need for strengthened capacity to manage the economy via
indirect means bears repeating. In particular, money supply growth must be
brought under control, and kept at more reasonable levels if inflation is to
be avoided.
18.   Price Reform.  China had begun to address the question of price reform
in a serious way before the heating up of the economy in 1988. Since then,
the move toward price liberalization slowed down but recent changes in grain
and edible oil prices and upward adjustments in railway freight charges and
fares among others suggest that price reform is back on the agenda. Price
reform is called for by the need to improve economic efficiency and to contain



- 6 -
the budget deficit. Until markat signals are clearly established, the scope
for resource misallocation will remain significant. Price reform must mean
more than adjusting administered prices, necessary as this may be as a first
step. It should also include new methodt of price formulation via the market,
and the creation of appropriate market infrastructure. This is an area where
more urgent attention is needed. If price reform can t. combined with sourtd
macroeconomic policies, excessive inflation can be avoided, although
compensation for some of the losers in such reforms may be needed.
19. Trade Reform. Recent adjustments in the exchange rate (China is now
operating a quasi-crawling peg arrangement) and reduction in exoort subsidies
are bound to improve the long-term efficiency of the sectors of the economy
with strong external links. A liberalization of the trade regime, by removal
of current administrative restrictions on imports, could contribute to
sustaining macroeconomic balance in the domestic economy and mitigate the
stop-go swings in demand management.  More importantly, over the long-rup the
stimulus of competition from imports has the potential to spur greater
efficiency in China's industrial sector and to promote the higher product
quality increasingly needed for continued growth in export 'ialue. Should
China move along these lines, of course, its current very positive balance of
payments and reserve situation could weak_n as a side effect of the use of
trade policy to improve the quality of growth.
20. Inevitably, the reforms and the manner in which they have been
implemented have, in spite of their benefits, had some unsettling effects.
For 30 years, China sought, and to a large degree achieved, price stability
and distributional equity. Since 1979, the status quo has been undermined in
many ways: by freeing of agricultural and other prices, by the growth of the
collective sector and by the larger autonomy of industrial firms. Reforms
have weakened monetary policy, on the one hand, as local governments have been
able to circumvent administrative credit controls, and on the other, the only
partially reformed nature of the tax system combines with the demand for
ongoing subsidies to put pressure on the fiscal accounts. If China is to
resume its ascent to prosperous modernity, some of thees problems that have
arrived with reforms must be settled.
21.   Poverty Strategy.  Assuring an adequate minimum standard of living for
the rural population and an appropriate level of urban and rural social
services will also remain a major challenge, as enterprise and rural communal
responsibilities in these areas are reduced. China's recent rapid income
growth has led to a decline in the proportion of absolute poor in the total
population from 15 percent in 1981 to 7-8 percent in 1988; this proportion is
projected to decline further still. The problem of poor and backward rural
areas in various parts of the country will continue to require attention.
Redistributing financial resources to these areas through the fiscal system
and easing restrictions on migration out of the poorest areas are some options
for alleviating poverty. With respect to labor policies, inefficient
utilization of labor in the state sector of the economy also continues to be a
major problem and requires coordinated reforms in labor allocation, the wage
system, enterprise management, and social services. Reforms in the system of
education and training to further develop China's "human capital" potential
are also crucial. And steps to further modernize the industrial sector must
include greater efforts--in line with Chinese environmental policy and



- 7 -
regulations--to improve energy and resource efficiency and thus protect the
natural environment.
22.   As incomes rise, there will be major structural changes over the next
decade, including a reduction in the share of agriculture, and a rise in the
share of light indistry. The rising income levels will also call for greater
development of the service sector (whose share of GDP at present is unusually
low), best achieved through further liberalizing entry by collective and
individual enterprises. The rapid aging of China's population and concomitant
demo2r!ahic shifts will also make demands upon resources, especially in the
decades after 2000. China has made significant progress in the environmental
sphere in strengthening the regulatory and incentive framework and upgrading
institutional capabilities. Nonetheless rapid growth continues to exacerbate
urban air pollution (directly related to heavy dependence on coal and to
inefficient energy utilization), and the pollution of water in both rural and
urban areas by largely untreated industrial and household effluents. Greater
focus is also needed on the loss of productive land through unsustainable
cultivation or grazing practices. Further progress on price reforms e.g. for
energy and water, as well as higher pollution levies would be among the more
effective means to reduce environmental degradation; this approach also has
the advantage of encouraging a better balance between command-and-control
regulatory measures and economic incentives to encourage efficiency and
discourage pollution or unsustainable resource utilization.
23. Finally, to mobilize the external resources needed for growth, China
will need to continue emphasizing export growth and attracting foreign
investment and the transfer of technology. Continued borrowing on world
capital markets, including increased but cautious commercial borrowing, will
be needed through the end of the decade. This highlights the need for China
to continue to emphasize export growth and the role that flexible use of
exchange rate and pricing policies and trade reform can play in encouraging
such growth.
24. In sum, how China's economy fares in the 1990s depends substantially on
the institutionsl changes that are already under way and on the steady
implementation of reforms already identified and of others to be introduced.
The explicit content, phasing and direction of these reforms remains to be
detailed. The transition from centralized planning to an effective
itategration of plan and market is a difficult and lengthy process.
Expectations have been pitched very high and may have to be moderated in the
next few years while China attempts to develop appropriate indirect monetary
and fiscal instruments, and implement the reform program. China will continue
to need external support in its development effort. Even with continued
external reforms and good export performance, China will require external
capital to finance the current account through the 1990s and access to
concessional and official capital will continue to play an important role in
sustaining China's growth. Despite its rapid development over the past
decade, China is still one of the poorest countries of the world, and its
access to concessional capital for financing development and modernization is
limited, both in absolute and per capita terms.



lank Group Operations in China
25.   Since China's change ln representation in 1980, the fundamental
objective of the Bank's lending activities, economic and sector work and
associated technical assistance has been to provide analytical and material
support to China's economic reform and modernization process. The policies
the Bank has supported have been a signifisant force in integrating China's
ecoaomy with the rest of the world; and, within China, the Bank's
international experience and perspective have made important contributions to
both the design and implementation of the country's reform and development
efforts.
26.   The main elements of our country assistance strategy to date have been:
to analyze the options for, and the consequences of proposed reforms, their
implementation, and the policy choices that confront the authorities during
the transit$on; to support the implementation by the Government of its
economic reform program; to facilitate the modernization and rationalizatLon
of the productive sectors of China's economy through lending operations with
increasing reform content, and by the reorientation of pi,jects in traditional
areas such as rallways, highways and power to promote reforms; to assist in
the further development of the country's rural and urban infrastructure,
specifically in the priority agriculture, energy and transport sectors; to
help China provide the safety net for segments of the population likely to be
affected by the reforms; and to help remedy environmental degradation. In the
next few years, there is a need to strengthen further the links between
overall Bank activities and Government reform priorities, as we work to
eliminate infrastructure bottlenecks that currently impede full supply
responses and stabilization, support China's broader efforts to alleviate
poverty, and help the country overcome severe environmental problems.
27.   Lending Operations.  Since China's change of representation in the Bank
Group in 1980, 93 projects involving lending of $10.615 billion have been
approved. As of June 30, 1991, $3.1 billion of IBRD loans and $2.9 billion of
IDA credits have been disbursed. Eleven projects have been completed and
fully disbursed and two Project Performance Audit Reports have been
distributed to the Executive Directors. Project implementation is generally
proceeding well. IFC has made five investments in Chita for a total of $44.0
million: in automobile and bicycle manufacturing, in an investment company,
an electronics company, and a solar energy company.
2Z.    The sector distribution of Bank lendlng to date has been broad-based
and is consistent with China's economic and social development priorities and
with the resource transfer needs of the sectors concerned (see table 1).
About 35 percent of total Bank Group lending to date has been in the transport
and energy sectors, to alleviate the serious infrastructure bottlenecks which
must be overcome to sustain economic growth, and just under 30 percent to
incresse and rationalize agricultural production. Industry has absorbed about
19 percent of lending, and Bank operations have focussed on improving
financial analysis and investment planning through support of financial
intermediaries providing credit to state and collective enterprises, and on
strengthening important subsectors such as fertilizer and machine tools. The
social sectors have accounted for about 16 percent of Bank lending. The
shortage of skllled manpower has been addressed through investments in
education. In public health, the Bank has supported programs to improve the



- 9 -
quality of care and officiency of service delivery, and projects in rural and
urban areas to lmprove water supply and sanitation. A emall share of lending
has been allocated to technical assistance credits which support investment
planning and project preparation.
29.    Future country lending strategy and priorities will give more explicit
emphasis to operations designod to support or reinforce the implementation of
specific policy and lnstitutional reforms, and those with specific
environmental, human resource development and poverty alleviation goals. In
addition, the Bank's lending priorities will reflect the sectoral priorities
which underpin China's plans to improve the economic efficiency of basic
sectors and to undertake the restructuring needed to meet its growth targets.
An adequate pipeline of social projects is desirable in light of the changes
taking place as a resu.t of refonms, and social sectors will continue to
receive significant Bank support; nonetheless the bulk of the Bank's
commtments are planned for the basic sectors including agriculture, energy,
transport and industrial restructuring.
30.   One ad ustment lending operation--Rural Sector Adjustment Loan (RSAL)--
an IBRD loan of $200.0 million and an IDA credit in the amount of SDR 72.24
million--was approved in FY88 and has been fully disbursed. A project
completion report is being prepared.
Table 1: China: Distribution of Lending, FY81-91
(US$ M4illion)
Sector                           Amount       S         No. of ProJects
Agriculture                      3,153.0    29.7             27
General Agriculture            2,791.2                    25
Irrigation                       438.0                     2
Industry & Finance               1,985.0    18.7            14
Development Finmnce              945.6                      5
Other Industry                 1,039.4                      9
Transport & Energy               3,724.8    35.1             31
Transport                      2,224.8                    18
Power                          1,030.4                      7
Oil & Gas                        390.1                      5
Coal                              79.5                      1
Population & Human Resources    1,670.6    15.8              17
Urban & Water                    471.2                      4
Education                        982.4                    10
Pop., Health & Nutrition         217.0                     3
Other                               80.7      0.8             4
TOTAL                         10,614.9   100.0            93



- 10 -
31.    MO-or issues in sectoral manaRement will be addressed through the
orientation of the Bank's lending. The specific reform objectives and the
criteria by which progress would be judged will of course vary by sector. In
agriculture, future lending would be linked to, and designed to support
priority policy objectives identified by recent sector work including reforms
aimed at strengthening producer price incentives and liberalizing markets for
grain and other farm products. Operations are also planned in a variety of
subsectors. Land and water resource conservation and development would be
assisted through support for strengthened interregional planning and
sustainable on-farm management and development. Lending to provinces is
expected to include multicomponent projects which incorporate specific market
possibilities as well as efforts to generate off-farm employment and alleviate
bard-core pockets of poverty.
32.    Energy lending would assist expansion and modernization of both
production and transmission systems. Continuation of measures to enhance
energy planning and further advance energy pricing reform are key to the
success of Bank involvement. In the power subsector, the Bank would assist
China in increasing hydroelectric and thermal generating capacity
incorporating the latest environmental standards, while improving utility
planning and management (including environmental assessment and pollution
control) through tariff reform, technology transfer, system planning, staff
training and institution building.
33.    TransDort operations would be linked to continued improvements in long-
term strategic planning of the transport system to better utilize existing
capacity, and take advantage of new transport technologies. A crucial issue
here is the need to move toward a more efficient balance among the various
transport modes. In roads, networks need to be expanded and major changes in
organization and financing will be required, through operations selected after
screening of several major highway projects that are important investments in
the Eighth Plan. In ra!lways, the Bank plans to focus on system planning and
management, as well as help modernize railway lines.
34.    Operations in industry would continue to support China's enterprise
reform efforts. A two-pronged approach has evolved. It has by now become
clear that the development of new corporate structures to enhance more
diversified ownership cannot proceed fully to its conclusion without action to
reduce enteprises' burden of sozial functions; therefore, operational
involvement in developing new models for housing and social security reform is
being conceived as an important underpinning of the broader enterprise reform
effort. Geographic and sector-specific industry operations would be linked to
much needed ongoing reforms in investment planning and the development of
subsectoral investment strategies consistent with comparative advantage.
Following recent sectcr work on long-term structural options for the
industrial sector, direct, subsector and provincial operations would help
reform enterprise organization and management, upgrade technology, and
conserve energy, while supporting environmental assessment and pollution
control.
35.    Lending in educition would be linked to China's ongoing efforts to
raise the quality of teaching, school administration, planning and finance at
the provincial level, with special focus on poorer provinces. Bank support in
the health sector would emphasize appropriate local technologies and improved



- 11 -
operational efficiency and financial management for both chronic
noncomiunicable diseases and infectious diseases in poor areas.
36.    Bank assistance in the urban sector is now expanding to address urgent
Issues of resource mobilisation, urban infrastructure, municipal planning and
environmental management. A major program of assistance would address urban
management priorities in Shanghai municipality, while urban transport, water
and environmental projects are under preparation in Liaoning, Zheijiang and
Jilin provinces, as well as Tianjin.
37.    An important aspect of Bank support for China is the environment.  A
multiyear program of World Bank environmental assistance would consist oft
(a) environmental sector studies to provide the analyses (especially in regard
to underlying causes) necessary for formulating policy, regulatory and
institutional action plans, and investment programs for specific problems; (b)
technical assistance (from the World Bank Technical Cooperation Credits and
bilateral trust funds, as well as project-related technical assistance) to
strengthen those institutions in China that are dealing with environmental and
ecological matters; and (c) an environment lending proaram to support
appropriate investments to further these objectives and to produce measurable
(and monitorable) results in improving the efficiency of resource use and in
reducing pollution and degradation of natural resources. In addition to the
expanding environment work in our urban and industry projects, attention will
focus on free standing environment projects, the first of which will be
presented to the Board this fall.
38.    In the technical assistance area, a FY87 IDA credit provides technical
assistance to government agencies working on background studies for the Eighth
Five-Year Plan (1991-95), and, building on long-time close collaboration with
the IMF, a free-standing technical assistance for China's central bank has
been appraised. In addition, the Bank will continue its close association
with UNDP, particularly through its role as executing agency for a third UNDP
umbrella project in China, and for projects with the State Coumission for the
Reform of the Economic Systems and for urban management in Shanghai. EDI
activities remain an important element of the Bank's program. In coming
years, EDI will intensify its focus on training of trainers in three sector-
specific networks of training agencies for agriculture, transport and health,
while collaborating with the Country Department to help disseminate the
messages of Bank Country Economic Sector Work to senior policymakers (CESW).
39.    Economic and Sector Work.  The Bank's economic and sector work in China
provides a basis for Bank lending and for dialogue with the Government on
development options and policies. The state of the policy dialogue is active
and open.  Officials at high as well as technical levels continue to seek out
the Bank's advice on preparing policy alternatives for implementing reforms.
In consequence, the Bank's ESW has moved away from the earlier large-scale
studies of the Chinese economy to more targeted, issue-oriented studies. Our
CESW is now inspired by a number of macroeconomic objectives and concerns that
we share with the Chinese authorities. Success at achieving short-term goals-
-to maintain the economy on a non-inflationary growth path, narrow the budget
deficit and preserve healthy external accounts--will contribute to China's
longer term objective of maximizing productive efficiency by strengthening
mechanisms that enhance allocative efficiency and technological advancement.
These goals accordingly establish four concerns that are central to our ESW



- 12 -
programs industrial restructuring to see that China's capital and human
resources are put to the best possible use; sustaining resource mobilization
and an adequate flow of funds through fiscal channels at all levels;
institutional reforms promoting market competition through a freer flow of
goods and factors, and greater reliance on market-determined prices; and
increasing interprovincial market integration to contain regional income
inequality. The program consists of studies aimed at providing timely advice
on macrosystemic elements of economic reform, and sector analysis to support
the reform process at the sectoral and micro levels. The latter aims to
strengthen government sector planning and to underpin development of the
Bank's lending program. Specific focuses of recent or ongoing work include
the reform of social security and housing policies, and comprehensive analyses
of issues in environmental and anti-poverty strategies. "Think pieces" on
Important issues help the authorities formulate the details of their reform
program.
40.    Aid Coordination and Relationships with the IMF.  The Bank has frequent
exchanges of views with Japan and other bilateral funding sources.
Collaboration with the Asian Development Bank has been increasingly strength-
ened, with sharing of project and economic information and exchanges on
appraisal methodology.  Close collaboration with the Fund has been a long-time
feature of the Bsank's relations with China, particularly on fiscal and
financial sector issues and technical assistance to assist China in reforms in
these areas. There has been frequent cross-mission support, with Bank staff
participation in the Fund's Article IV Consultations to China, and DMF cross-
support to the Bank, particularly on fiscal issues, tax reform and the
financial sector.



- 13 -
Part Il. THE PROJECT
41.    The proposed Credit for SDR 93.8 million would finance agricultural
development in the Xingjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, the largest province in
China.
42.     Background.  Agriculture in China provides sustenance to over one
billion people; it is an important source of income for 190 million farm
families and accounts for about 30 percent of the country's GDP. Only about
157 million of China's 960 million hectares are arable. Farming systems are
intensive, involving large inputs of labor, chemical and organic fertilizers,
and water. Nearly half of the country's cropped area is irrigated. Food
grains occupy about 70 percent of the cropland and account for about one-third
of total agricultural output. Intensive farming has allowed China to meet its
basic food requirements and to produce a wide range of cash and commercial
crops.
43.    China's agricultural sector has been stimulated by the rural reform
program introduced since 1978. This program has produced impressive growth
and structural changes by introducing the production responsibility system,
increasing producer prices, and expanding the role of markets. The gross
value of agricultural output increased by about 5 percent yearly between 1978
and 1988. Despite this significant growth, the Government remains concerned
about stimulating increases in grain production in future years. It has
introduced strategies both to maintain grain production and reduce poverty in
the inland provinces.
44.    The strategies include increasing investment for rehabilitating and
expanding irrigation; introducing partial reforms in the procurement,
distribution, pricing, and subsidization of grains; encouraging-the
development of cash crops such as cotton; and initiating special development
programs for poverty areas. Local governments have also targeted the
rehabilitation and expansion of irrigation as a means of augmenting production
of nonstaple food and commercial crops to meet growing demand and increase
farm income. Government policy increasingly emphasizes that the cropping
systems adopted must match agro-ecological conditions and that projects must
include components to enhance the natural environment.
45.    The Bank Group's lending to China's agriculture sector has been
designed to support the Government's efforts to expand and diversify
agricultural output. These efforts emphasize making more efficient use of
land, water, capital and labor resources and improving support services such
as credit, research and agricultural education. To date, the sank/IDA have
lent US$3.2 billion for 27 separate agricultural operations. These operations
cover land development, irrigation and drainage, upgrading agricultural
support services (including agricultural research, education and training),
credit, seed improvement, and development of specialized subsectors (including
rubber, forestry, fruit and fisheries) and areas (combining crop, livestock,
agroprocessing and support services).
46.    The implementation of ongoing Bank assisted projects in the agriculture
sector is proceeding largely on schedule. Three IDA-assisted agricultural
projects and two IFAD-funded projects in China have recently been completed -
North China Plain Agriculture Project (Cr. 1261-CHA); Heilongjiang Land



- 14 -
Reclamation Project (Cr. 1347-CMA), Rural Credit Project (Cr. 1462-CHA)i Hebei
Agricultural Development Project (IFAD Ln. 107-CH)), and IFAD Rural Credit
Project (IFAD Ln. 153-CH). The project completion reports for all these
projects have indicated that project implementation was successful. The
economic rates of return reached or exceeded the appraisal estimates, and the
technology used for land development and drainage and other components was
sound and appropriate for wider application.
47.    Several Important lessons were learned during the implementation of
completed projects which have been incorporated in the design of the present
project. First, surface and groundwater use must be carefully managed
conjunctively in order to effectively control salinity. Second, soil water
munitoring systems need to be established in order to detect salinization in
time to take corrective measures. Third, cropping with animal husbandry can
Increase soil fertility and yields substantially. Fourth, setting up a strong
project management office (P10) at the provincial, prefectural, and county
levels is vital to successful project implementation. Fifth, adequate
counterpart funding must be available in order for the project to be completed
effectively. Projects should be scaled to match the projected availability of
counterpart funding.
48.    Rationale for IDA Involvement.  IDA's involvement in the project will
make possible a large increase in incomes to farmers in one of the poorest
areas in China with a significant minority population. The project design
draws on the Bank's extensive experience in integrated agricultural
development projects in China to address major constraints to agricultural
productivity. The project will promote efficient use of land and water
resources and new production technologies by both strengthening research and
extension in agriculture, irrigation and drainage facilities, and by training
farmers, researchers and extension agents. IDA involvement will help to
introduce some advanced technologies, such ass monitoring soil and water to
detect and correct salinization in arid zone irrigation; designing and
implementing river works to improve soil water regimes for desert ecosystem
recovery; monitoring clouds by meteorological techniques, and using active
measures to suppress hail formation, which is a natural hazard to farmers.
49.    Pro3ect Objectives.  The project objectives are to increase
agricultural and livestock production bys a) improving and expanding
irrigation systems and promoting efficient use of water; b) increasing
productivity in existing low-yield farmland and developing unutilized
wastelands; c) strengthening high yielding seed production and distribution
for cotton and grain crops; and d) improving the extension systems for both
crops and animal husbandry down to township level. The project will also
support environmentally sound development by incorporating measures to restore
natural vegetation along the fringes of the desert to prevent its expansion,
and introduce cropping systems combined with agroforestry to achieve
sustainable development in the oases of the Tarim Basin. These objectives are
consistent with the Government's strategy of making more efficient use of land
and water resources, reducing regional income differentials, and ensuring
sustainable development in arid areas.
50.    ProJect Description.  The project has five principal components.  The
first component will rehabilitate and upgrade irrigation and drainage
facilities and will include: lining of about 387 km of canals in Yerqiang



- 15 -
Oasis and 349 km of canals in Weigan OaSis; construction of two water
diversion structures, and construction and rehabilitation of about 165 km of
drainage canals and associated structures in Yerqiang and 262 km of drainage
canals and associated structures in Weigan. In addition, there will be
construction of 174 tubewells; reclamation of 80,000 ha of wasteland;
upgrading of about 120,000 ha of low yielding land in the Yerqiang and Weigan
basins; and a monitoring and research component which will address drainage
salinity control, irrigation efficiency, water quality and soil fertility
maintenance in the two basins. The second component will construct a small
hydro-power station (21 Megawatts) and connecting transmission distribution
network in the Yerqiang Oasis in order to expand the electrical generating and
transmission capacities in the basin for groundwater rumping, agroprocessing
and domestic purposes.  The third component is an agricultural component in
Yerqiang and Weigan Oases for provision ofs improved extension services for
about 104 townships; seed multiplication by expansion of seed production area,
upgraded seed distribution and processing systems; improved farm mechanization
services; a five-year program of agronomic trials for improving production on
about 24,000 ha of low yield lands; and a hail suppression system. The fourth
component will finance the expansion of livestock services in Yerqiang and
Weigan Oases. This involves improved services for: a) animal breed
improvement, veterinary services and feed supply development, and research and
training to improve livestock extension services; b) improved feed and shelter
programs through construction of animal shelters and watering wells for
livestock, straw ammoniation stations and development of mixed crop livestock
farms; and c) improvement of specialized farms such as sheep stud farms, sheep
and goat research stations, and sites for specialized goat production. The
fifth component will finance restoration of the natural forest along the part
of the Tarim River that borders the Taklimakan Desert. The restoration
includes support for establishment of a Tarim River Basin Management Office
bys a) construction of roads, office buildings and monitoring stations for
hydrology, ecology, and desert research and control gates to maintain river
flows; and b) provision of technical assistance, equipment and vehicles for
the monitoring stations.
51.    The project, to be implemented over five years, will finance civil
works, land improvement including shelterbelt planting, vehicles (excluding
passenger vehicles), construction machinery, processing equipment,
construction materials, training, research and technical assistance. Tho
total cost of the project is estimated to be US$212.1 million, including a
foreign exchange component of US$90.5 million (42.7 percent). Retroactive
financing totaling US$7.5 million has been recommended for project related
expenditures incurred after January 1, 1991. Provision of retroactive
financing will permit early startup of the project. A cost breakdown and
financing plan for the project are shown in Schedule A.  Amounts, methods and
scheduling of procurement and disbursements are shown in Schedule B. A
timetable of key project processing events is given in Schedule C and the
status of Bank Group operations in China is presented in Schedule D. Maps
(IBRD Nos. 22308R and 22309R) are attached. The Staff Appraisal Report, No.
9338-CHA dated June 24, 1991 is being distributed separately.
52.    Agreed Actions.  To ensure effective implementation and sustainability
of the project, the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Regional Government has agreed
to the following actions. First, the Regional, Prefecture, and County PHOs
and the Bureau Project Executing Units will be maintained and be staffed with



-16 -
qualified technical personnel. Second, a panel of experts will be appointed
to review all technical aspects of project implementation and will report its
findings annually to the PMO and to IDA. Third, an agricultural extension
manual for training of extension workers will be prepared and tested for one
year and subsequently reviewed with IDA before it is finalized. Fourth, water
charges will be collected for irrigation and drainage schemes under the
project which will be sufficient to recover all the operations and maintenance
and a significant portion of the capital costs. Fifth, incremental grain
production under the project will be sold at free market or negotiated prices;
and a report will be prepared annually for the Regional Price Bureau and the
Association, to review the prices of cotton and production incentives for
cotton growers, with recommendations for adjustments in prices and production
incentives for the following year.  Sixth, a plan will be provided to the
Association of the allocation of land reclaimed under the project to low
income farmers.
53.    Benefits.  At full development, the project would produce incremental
annual production of 273,000 tons of grain valued at US$42 million net of on-
farm costs, 74,400 tons of lint cotton valued at US$80.5 million, and 249,000
tons of vegetables, legumes and other crops valued at US$48.0 million. The
annual incremental output of crops and livestock is valued at US$192.0
million. Hydropower investments would produce annually 151 Gigawatt hours,
valued at US$10.4 million. The economic rate of return for the project as a
whole is 34 percent -- 36 percent for the Yerqiang sub-project and 33 percent
for the Weigan sub-project. Average per capita incomes in the project area
would increase from about Y481 (US$91) to Y1270 (US$240). These increases in
income would benefit some 137,700 of the poorest families operating small
farms or working on salinized, low fertility lands. The project would also
generate employment opportunities of about 136,000 person-years during the
construction period and 135,000 person-years of regular employment after
project completion. Other secondary benefits from the project include
improved town water supplies, environmental improvements from restoration of
the ecology to prevent desert encroachment, and better roads.
54.      Risks.  The project does not present any significant management or
technical risks. The Government of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region is fully
conmmaitted to the project, and a project management structure is already in
place at the regional and prefecture levels and in most of the project
counties. The potential risks have been minimized in several ways. First,
the Regional finance departments, at all levels, have participated actively in
preparing the project. Counterpart funding arrangements have been carefully
prepared. The project has been designed to match the funding levels that can
be mobilized by prefecture and county level governments. Second, technical
risks have been reduced by adopting technologies (e.g. canal lining) which are
well proven within Xinjiang and other provinces in China. Third, a panel of
experts will review the project each year and give technical support to
project officials. The expected crop yields are realistic and have actually
been achieved through large-scale extension efforts elsewhere in the Tarim
Basin. Price and production incentives are included in the project to
encourage the production of major crops such as grain. cotton and other cash
crops. The risk of insufficient operation and maintenance funds for the water
management offices has been minimized by recent increases in water fees and by
the agreement on water fee adjustments to be made under the project.



_ 17 -
55.      Recomendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recomend that
the Erecutive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. ConaLle
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
July 31, 1991



- 18 -
SCHONIU A
Description                          Local          Forei,tn       Total
--------(USU Mill ion) ---------
Irrigation & Drainage
Yerqiang                               28.9               18.8         47.7
Weigan                                 35.2               24.2         59.4
Hydropower                                6.5               13.0         19.5
Agricultural Services                    14.0               14.5         28.5
Livestock Services                        6.1                4.1         10.2
Sco-system Restoration                    2.1                2.5          4.6
Total base costs                         92.8               77.1       169.9
Physical Contingencies                    9.1                7.2         16.3
Price Contingencies                      19.7                6.2         25.9
Total project costs                121.6              90.5        212.1
Financins Plan                           Local          Foreign        Total
---------(SS million) ---------
Central,
RegionallPrefecture Govts.               38.7               11.8         50.5
County/Township Govts.
and Farmers                             24.4              12.2         36.6
IDA                                      58.5              66.5        125.0
Total                             121.6              90.5        212.1
\a Project is exempt from taxes and duties



19 -
8CUEDULE 5
CHINA                     Page 1 of 2
TARIM BASIN PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHODS AND DISBURSIMENTS
PROCUREMENT
Procurement Method
Project               -----------------------------------    Total
Items                ICB         LCB   Other\a      NIA\b      Cost
------------(U$s  ilion)------------
Works \c                  -       83.0      44.6         -      127.6
( - )    (43.3)    (21.4)      ( - )    (64.7)
Equipment              20.3        9.6       3.0         -       32.9
& Machinery            (19.3)     (6.7)     (2.7)               ( _ )    (28.7)
Vehicles                 3.5        -         -         1.1       4.6
(3.3)     ( - )     ( - )      (0.0)     (3.3)
Materials \d           17.2        8.8         -         -       26.0
& Agrochemlcals       (17.2)      (6.6)     ( - )      ( - )    (23.8)
Livestock breeds        1.6\e       -        0.4         -        2.0
(1.3)     (-)       (0.3)      (-)       (1-6)
Training &                          -        7.4         -        7.4
Consultants             t - )     C - )      (2.9)     ( - )     (2.9)
Research &               -          -        1.4         -        1.4
monitoring                                   (0.0)  )             (0.0)
Design &                            -         -         8.3       8.3
Engineering               - )     ( - )        - )     (0-0)     (0.0)
Land and Govt Admin.     -          -         -         1.9       1.9
( - )  ( - )  ( - )    (0.0)     (0.0)
TOTAL                  42.6      101.4      56.8       11.3     212.1
(41.1)    (56.6)    (27.3)      (0.0)   (125.0)
Notes Numbers in parentheses indicate amounts financed by IDA Credit.
\a includes prudent shopping
\b N/A - not applicable, government administration costs, etc.
\c Includes land development work (mainly force account),
roads and buildings
\d Includes agrochemicals USS 5.0 million
\e Procured by Limited International Bidding.



- 20 -
Page 2 of 2
DISBURSEMENTS
Categories                         Amount of             X of Expenditures
Credit              to be financed
(USS million)
(1) Works
(a) Land Development,
other minor works             28.2                 502
(b) Civil works,
excluding cost of
steel, cement and
timber supplied under
Category (2)                  36.5                  55S
(2) Goods
(a) Machinery & Equip.            28.7          )      1002 of foreign
;      expenditures, 1002 of local
(b) Vehicles, other than                        )      expenditures (ex-factory
passenger vehicles             3.3          )      cost) and 752 of local
'-     expenditures for other
(c) Construction materials        23.8          )      items procured locally
& agrochemicals                             )
)
(d) Improved Breeding Stock        1.6          )
(3) Consultants' services,
training and study
tours                           2.0               o100
(4) Local Training                  0.9                  20X
Total                         125.0
Estimated Credit Disbursements
IDA FY               1992\*   1993      1994     1995      1996      1997
-------(US$  Million)-------------
Annual               10.0     22.5      37.0      24.0      24.0      7.5
Cumulative           10.0     32.5      69.5     93.5      117.5   125.0
\* Includes US$ 7.5 million retroactive financing for expenditures incurred after January 1, 1991.



21 -
scZ c
CGDU ~  ~ ~ S~3UL 
TARDM 2i0i-=PROJMC
TITAILE O1 MIY PROJECT PROCZSSZWG EVTS
(a)  Time taken to prepares                          15 months
(b)  Project prepared bys                            Government with FAO-CP and IDA
assistance
(c)  First presentation to Bank/IDA missions         May 23, 1989
(d)  Appraisal mission departures                    September 25, 1990
(e)  Negotiations:                                  May 20, 1991
gf)  Planned date of Effectiveness:                  November 1991
(g) List of relevant PCRs and PPARss                 (i) North China Plain (Cr 1261-
CHA) PPAR No. 7736; (Credit 1261-
CHA)--April 28, 1989;
(ii) Heilongjianp Land
Reclamation Project (Credit 1347-
CHA, LOAN 2261) PCR No. 8443--
March 6, 1990;
(iii) Rural Credit Project
(Credit 1462-CHA) Project
Completion Report No. 9375--March
11, 1991;
(iv) Hebei Agricultural
Development Project (IFAD Ln.
107-CHA) Project Completion and
Evaluation Report EC 9013/WP3--
March 7, 1990; and
(v) IFAD Rural Credit Project
(IPAD Ln. 153-CH) Project
Completion Report No. 9374--
September 5, 1990



-22-
Pog I of S
STATU OF AN  0W G       ITIS IN TRIE PSOPLE'IES EPLIC OF CNIU
A.  TATUT OF SN  LOAN AD  IDA CEDITS
(AS of Jw  30, 1991)
LOW                                                             Msomt (USS sillion)
Credit              _or-                                      (not of cwielltitou)
Number          F   rower            Prposl                              IDA   thdieb. (a)
Ton lw o W fourttnn creits hae bn  fully disbursed.           1030.5      M.9
Of adich SCALs
296/112       88 PIIC     ualt Sctor Adj.                    200.0      100.0      -
..............
1411       84 MC    Polytecnic/TV University                          6.0    1M.
2382       84  IC PK    *se Nydroebectrfe                 141.4                13.6
1472       84 M       Rurwa Nealth   Medical Ed6c.                    8 65-0    7.7
2426       64 PCt   Potrenbe  III (Kerary)                 92.5                 3.9
2444/1500     4 PiC   Agricultural Edbcation it              45.3  (23.5)(b)     S.0
1516       85 PRC   Agricultural Researh It                 -         25.0     4.0
lSS1       85 PiC   Univerity  evtlopmnt It                 -        145.0    12.0
2493       a5 PRC   Power II                               117.0       -       10.6
2501       S5 PRC   ChuWcwu (Lu'n) Cosl Ninn               79.5               46.6
1576       85 PRC   Rural Voter S&Wy                       3          80.0      1.0
2539156    a5 PRC   Highway t                                31.6 I30.0)(b)       2.0
2540       SS PRC   plItw  11                             220.0                89.8
2S41       S5 PKC   Fortitize RIshab.                     97.0        -        0.7
Enry Saving
160        85 PRC    Ftorery Deelopt nt                               47.3     6.2
2579/1606  85 PRC   PfShiH-Cheohw Ara Dev.                   17.0       75.0      2.0
2580       S5  RC      eiyum See Fiold Technical           25.0        -        4.8
Assstence
1642       86  RC    rl  Creit II                           -         90.0     0.6
26S9/1663    86 PRC    Indhstrial Credit tII tCIB 111)      7n.0        2S.0    11.7
1664       86 PMC   Tecdnmcal Coopertion Credit II t                  20.0    15.9
1671       86 PRC   Provfncial Universities                 -        120.0    12.8
2678/1680    86 PIC   Third RafIway                         160.0       70.0   122.4
2689       86 PC    TianJin Port                          130.0        -       66.9
1689       86 S C    Fr,ehwter Fires                        -         60.0      1.8
2706       86 PRC    Ieiluteng Thml Powr                   225.0       -       43.7
7w         86 PMC   Yatn  Hydroeletric                     52.0                16.4
23/1713    86 PC    Rural Wealth & Prtntive Ned.             15.0       65.0    43.2
*33        87 MP       ed Soils t                                     40.0     0.7
2775       B  PRC    iwkou Hydroelctric                   140.0                49.8
278M/1763    87 PC    Industriat Creit IV (CCi IV)          250.0       50.0    78.5
2784       8? PRC   Shanghi fNch'ne Tools                 100.0                43.6
1T64       8? PMC   Xang  gricultl Dov.                               70.0    27.5
2794/1779    87 PRC   Sh_a  era                              45.0      100.0    96.6
2811/1792    87 PMC   SeJ n TinJ1n-T u Expwy                 25.0      125.0    66.1
2812/173    87 PMC        u  Provincial Day.                 20.0      150.5    98.8
1835       8? PMC   Pltnnfne luport & Specwil Studies                 20.7    14.7
288        87 PRC   Fertiltior Rtiobtnliation              97.4                29.5
2852       87 PIC   lJning  hermi Powr                     190.0               97.3
1871       88 PC   Rural Credit III                         -        170.0    14.3
287/1845    88 PRC    Huwenpu Port                           63.0       25.0    66.2
2907/1875    so PMC   Daltin Port                            71.0       25.0    57.6
1J85       89 PtC   Northm Irr1pti0n                        -        103.0    52.7
2924/1885    88 PMC   Corthr Irrg av.                        40.0  (60.0)(b)    29.2
1908       8  PMC   teaher Trainirn                        120.0   13.8
2943       8S MC    Phermceuticals                        Iv.0         -         .8
2951/1917    SS PRC    Ifchuan Hghway                        75.0       SO.0   100.3
2952      8a  PMC    Shaanx Hihway                           .O          9    28.1
1918       88 PMC    Daxing An Ling Forestry               1          56.9   25.2
2955       88 PMC    Bef 1tgaII                            16S.0 I3.3
2958       8S PC   Phoepate Dev.                           62.7        -       59.6
2968       88 PRC  Roalwa  IV                              200.0              117.5
1984       89 mC    Jiugx  Provinciat Highway               -         61.0    42.1
1997       89 PRC    Shanf Agricultural Dov.                -        106.0    92.6
2006       89 PRC   Textbook Develotpmt                      -        57.0      5.5



- 23 -
Pege8 Of 3
LOW                                                            #Aount (U10 mlitUun)
Credit                                                       (r ont of c.wellations)
ft rlwFl            Ppoe                     SW*        IA   UIhidieb. (a)
2009        9  RC   Intatad kg. Halth                       -        52.0    4.1
3006       6  PIC   Nino  S& shanha Pot                    76.4               35.2
SW0        of VW    Xim   Port                             36.0               31.5
3022       P  PlC    Tianjin Light IthAtty                154.0              133.4
30o024    O    C    lPK         Ios   iluSy                  70.0      80.0 n     .
m1         at USC   Uiwdm   gcoultuor"v.                            109.0    60.
3066       89 PlC    Iefh         t                       137.0              135.9
332025    69   C                P . Hiw                     60.0       S0.0    93.6
0M5        6  PC    F1fth Ia atetal Credit                300.0       *      196.8
2091       90 PC    l.Chfne lEarthue   esatr.                        30.0     r.3
2W?        90 PKC   J1 Ziigrlc. o.                                   60.0    53.8
2114       90 USC   Vocational A Tech. Ede.                 *        50.0      4.6
2145       90 PC    lotionl Affoetation                             300.0   23.0
2159       90 PSC    Noe AgricuIturt    .                           150.0   126.6
2172       91 PAC    Nfd-TongU  Agricultural W.                      " 4.0    55.5
3MMu2        91 PC    Rwl Credit IV                         75.0      200.0    n3.4
3274/2186    91 PKC   i wd  Inidst Tech (SPWAt)             50.0       64.3   109.4
3286/2201    91 PUC   Nedfu sfzed Citis Oev.                79.4       69.0   151.6
3206       91 PUC   Uhangiia Indistrial Ov. Cc)           150.0              150.0
z22O       91 USC   Ke Studie Oavelopimnt                           131.2   122.4
2219       91 USC      iing Urbrn Infra truct4re C*                  77.8    71.4
3316/2226    91 PRC   JiwiguwProvi. Tran port Cc)           100.0      S3.6   150.7
2242       91 PUC   Heen Aricul. Dev. Cc)                           110.0   107.3
3337/2256    91 PUC   Irrig. Agrcul. Intensf. (C)           147.1     187.9   330.3
Total                             5,709.8   4,905.1  4,819.7
of iAhich has been repaid        350.2       0.0
Total now bold by Blank wd IDA    5,359.6   4,905.1
dnoumt soldt Of tAIch repaid      -                  -
Total Undisbured                  2,608.2   2,21' . 4 8  .7
(a) As credits ar denomnated In SMNs (since IDA Reptlniea_nt VI). undibursd 1DR credit
beaces are converted to daltars at the current e nwge rate betwen the dollar and the 103.
In mm  cas, therefore, the wWndbureed balante indrictes a d41r emwunt peter thOn the
original principal credit amount expressed in dollrt.
(b) credit fully disbured.
Cc) Not yet effective.



- 24 
Pag 3 of 3
.*  TAW   OT "CU   INdI TIUF
(AS of Jun 30. 1991)
Inwet-                                      TV  of      ....        .t      . Total
t.winase      *   U    IllIon)    -
813      a  Sougz= udpaa               Autoibile      15.0       3.2   18.2
974      U  JF China lnvetuant Co.     hwetmt t        3.0               3.0
1020      J  Iha a Chins                hoewtl          5.0        v      5.0
claewt. Co. Ltd.       Nanufactu
1066       9 Crow Eleetunie             Electrenics    15.0        -     15.0
tit9      J9 shanahn Cho ar Sots?       Soltr  (a)      2.0       1.0    3.0
Total an" Camitmnta                      40.0       4.2    4.2
L!w cw3elliatimn. temiatfn               2.v               2.2
repowat wd alta
Total Comtmmts now Ibid by IFC           3A.       4.2    42.0
Toutl Urdiabursd                          0.0              0.0
(a) Low Aa*aaitty caltlad.
7/A910
-w2s



-25-
1W Pu. Colts GP trUms         N
A. Om* df Gra  omentl  LrsS e*SA. auu(S W swnm
(fra stew  prig. du)                      (ftc. 'mum MI prfle scs)
1W0.    19c  10910  IW00 O 1        91137   95-  999    W                    1
Gram Oam*t Prad  oitup.    10.   190   0.   100   0.    1L.085s                              9.6   3.4     4.
AgMeAum             ~~3.    3.3   30.4.4 VA    8.   WA.                L.8   2.1   6.1    3.3    6'.9'
Ird1                        X.0   W0.   44.A  41.3   41A6   41.A             12.1   8.?   12       7.6    8.
(af .ai.s owwosmp1e         V7.?  31.1   3.8   31.0   14.6       to           9.4    9.9  14.5   9.2       t
swvtm                       2.8   V.0   V.0   315   31.A  31.A               120    5.J   9.5  .3.0  -3.8
Rsssac114usm                   08    0.8   0.0  -0.9  -0.?   3.5                to      toto                 t
LV"  Of an  ~        4.2    4.6    6.7   13.7   131.4  IL1              1    4.1   13.0   5.3    9.5
fqmisof. weP                 3.    3.    6.7   14.7?     4.    14.6           1.6   11.6  11.4   12.2.133
Tawl Uawdwms                  19.2   Wa.  109.0  109.9  la*.?  19.             8.6    6.4   9.4   4.5    0.9
Toftt CmvwtIm               75.2   15.2  67.8   61.3   61.A  57.5             7.3    5      7.1    6.0  .1.7
PtIwss cwwApdan           67.   42.?  59.    53   DJ.  49.9                 7.3   5.1   6.9   5.8  -2.3
GuurulfOwrumIt             7.6   7.5   8.    LO0        1    7.A            7.0    7.3   9.1    7.4    2.0
Grams Duamsto I ucmm vt     21.   29.0   322   39.A   39.0  39.0             12.9   8.9   13.?     2 35.0
Fixed leugaes                      to.  21.0   3.1   21.1  1353                     to   12.9  -15.6    2.5
Gros O~wst swi.y              21.   V9.   3.2   31.?   3.4   42.5              12.4    Li1  13.1    28    16.8
ftt psaw Imm0.0  -3.3   0.1   -0.2  -0.4   0.5                         ..    ..    ..    to.        t
Note orru  Tramfus           0.0    0.0   0.2    0.1    0.1  0LI               ,.                   to .
Gras Uselami bvbm             21.   W1.    3.5   306   3.0   42.               12.4    84   1.    1.9   16.7
in bittisu of Wis            "A    1973   "v    19a    "W    1"a
cot O. Pi  137 i   Pricsm)...               .        .
Gr"$ OtIc Pruit              -1W, 3              123      -3  134             8.5    5.6    9.6   3.4    4.?
C01011ty 10                  3      45            188   W1      2U .    9.5   103   14.0   13.1
TV   Of Truk*M1gswnt          -2     1    21       0      1?    as            to      tot
Gams oamtlo fiom             21     45    6U    121    12M   12172            8.6   6.5   9.2    4.?   533
Grld asstlam  prodmm         W1    4%      WO 121     IO   13.    5.6   9.5    3.2    4.6
Gras, Uatf.ui tMom           21     W5   U        W 1   u1p29    Wi           86    6.2   9.1    4.5    53
C. Prices ntim                "WO   "aO   IO   1"U    "v    199              lIS-TS 197341910-90  low    "W9
..........s....     .....iF   .S   . .  .     .      .      .      ..                   .
lapIlolt W Def taUt           76.    90.7   L9.9  112.?*  13.3*  12.9         -1.6    1.5   5.8s   9'.4,   5.
iqfcit Empsw U an. Of.       73.5   90.2   V9.9  112.   121.6  11A             .1.?,   0.8   6.1    8.0    4.7
0. oRbs irdlestor           lOiS-7! 19738 1910-90
................. . .... .. .......t
Lusr Porces                  2.4   2.5    U.
Gre"asds. Imes P.O.          5.?    4.6    TA
M?VWw CsWiPtf. P.c6          45    3Si    5.4
EaPsU (ownS   6~             0.5    Li1   1.2
m,rgfl S.vIft mum
Gas  SIu  WAM~            36.9   42.1  49.5
are"a Oamsd ImliWiif        36.9   VA.   59.0
404"t"               01A8.    11.3   14.
1M~~~V               11.0~~~~    11.6   11.8
109.0  100.  1"A.   10.0  1to
IOU  "U  IOLO IOLO U" ~    ~       ~      ~ ~ E



- 26 -
...................*.... ............................... .CE L     .
0l~~~~~~~~&S                                                                               all.~~~~~~~~~~P  aO 
..................                      .... ... . ...............................                    ......... O* ......... 
..............  ........................... ..
|~~~~~~~K. *_                                     1CfOCBDUZ 
6. Nordwdl a~i                  113  1"a  1w   113  100  il m "a  "    "                            W             uO"g
X.AL                            40   71L1 100.0  117.9  10WA    U.9   4V5   7M    45               3m     41 
A.    5A   100.0  111.   1.?  155.7 31              43   IW  a4 A.4 0445 
*-     ..      *.     *-      *  * .         . *     - *    *-     *-. .          *-
~~~~~~~~a                      dU   a         11ooa     .?a :ig         1Xi  MU    Uns  mi&        WrM
RI14ML                          39.1   a3    1LO O014   121L   1L7 154   U                  350    4t? 41  M 9
Tout _Fm      M                 40.4   40.3  100.0  117.5  15.   144.3 1 .    31              43 5.&         .2 229
F. NmrdwdI  t_"l
foi                            3S      4.   100.0  15.4   18.6  161.9   311    13    30            4191           4474
hot ad aww                      17 .    15.9  100.0  19L0  34.1  193.         M      m        5M      7r   1m      WI
0th. aosww  p                   40    14.0  100.0    .1   tLt  10P9.0    SU                 1743   11m     W6 
Othir fnine     t u4   14   100.0  14.4  134J  10t.   11t    19115  16    =M   8415   1W
Captt _o**                      3.9    95.4  100.0  114.t 15.7  1t19        an   1IM    M1110  515    3          VW
ToWt Imprs CIF                  54.0  1C.4  100.0  15.4  133.1  11.0  11 50   4            4316           59140
0. -d-adt  Tam  of Trek         11      1a    "B    1a    "W          190
=s**v*^^**   ............................................ _ .. _* ..... ..... .* . .. .... .. .... ..... . .
1ard. Impt Price tr    t        1442  lo.5  100.0  13.5   16.8  140.1
Nnd h. Iq s Prfci t1dr          S.i    54.5  100.0  1.?  10a"   10.4
Nrch. Tern of Trak             13.A  110.6  100.0   969  101.0  103
UN all tfw (at  tau   piu)s
..............................................
3. isam of Prom                1TM  1"a   "W  1"a  100  11
its" of Cs~ & we               2MW   30410  43        511   SN      GM
Nadisome (M)                 1S3  V70  3u7  4518  $M    49
'frts Uswiow                  1?   360   40 6 48            350   4157
Import, of Nou  & we           1990  4        4321       7 SO   594   580
hhswdl, C                    15594  345  353Z9   0W   548    465
iaFutsr Swvleo                146      07   37   453   409   4
--isM                            I3  1W         407  . -2 192
Not Fa19t5rews                   II     V7    -190  -S9  -5            M
(intnst per OM                 317   1100   115   2195   31            =
Not OUTMt Traufa                 40    171    219    416              11M
(workers ridttw                60    100    16        M3   1Z    10t
Oirr A/C Ne iSfor Off.  't    970 -113                -       440  11U1
Not Offcial t    rwfe          -70    ?7    -a         3    14       a
Owe A/C fal Afr Off. Sris    900 -1133           41  -UK2  .41   113
* LrWT4    Cpitapt tnflw        MO   45        Ms15   ?OS    312   Su
oireet lIUtAt                   IT    Wt   UN    a"    2si   2sX
Net V Lon CM  ea              17   40        6130   611   4         -in
Odw LT Inftse (Not)           -154   -M    -1106  -ao  -300          M
Total Odor it=  i)             -0       177M  -I60  -15as    -a    -
Nat Swt Tam Clttel           -355    g   .60    44   -M    *W9
Ca       Ptttlm .3.I.            a      0       0      0       a      a
Errors ad Osastssa            161      91  .145   -10M        45      0
1w     in ont low,_             -W            -4265   1       17a 0 .11m 59
Natcrditfw   do W0a                     0    -41    .6        79   -30
Odur 3mwv  Chw                -W      S     -4145  -150    101  -1115
M mrs of oh:
Susammtlam                     0.0   -4.1    04    .0.9    0.7    3.5
itut                           L 0.1   .4    OA      0       0      0.9
agree           1a             03    -3.9    0.0   -1.0   -1.1    3.1
3mft .    adl.   d  11w    12n   105  141 11t 
__w%vs f W. SM (3t1o US)  "M    1t1  2M    M                 2O    3417
Offsll X-Rab IYANA              1J0  2.4   S3         3      3??   4.1
dal Nol 3ff. X-3       "M   1.A   63.3  39.96  43.3  S03   3.14
M9 (0RMfha  of aVW   N*     M-    "MS    =51   375M  417W   MM61
in613GM_1



- 27 -
tl"^                             ~~~~~~~~ClllF  emC  tlot""CISW, 
PMSSM
..........................
4Mi of W  (2)                                  arsa  btm
C0wv  fluwMs                  1O    I1t     1980  19"O    19"     1           1S 1     10 "I         19" 1"O   0
......                            ..... ...... ... .n... ..*..*......*....4..t...... .....
Q.wrm  RomEpis       ~~~3.    53   3.A    3.0   3.A    3.4              11*    4.8    9.2   18.0    7.8
~~wcw beudftwu        3~.2   19.4   1.0   17.1   13.1  1V.              11.4    .7   17.    19.8    7.0
om"t alk Il                7.3    5.3    4.4  .3.4   .4   .3L9*                       *     **      .
CPwl                           O0     7.8    6.7    L4    4.      4.3           1i    O J5    0.7   .o    45
~goI1 ODeft                     ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..                 ..    ..    ..    ..         ..
Offeldt cofutatG               .O    0.      0.O   0.0    ..    ..              ..    ..    ..    ..
xtarngO                        0.     0.6    0.6    0.3    ..    .. .O A. ..
Oemtfe                        0.0    OA     0.9    1.1    ..    ..              5.    S R i  0A.6    ..
DstIek*Fft*Wfo              LO8   0.    0.5    OA        *,0**   .19,4   NJ
Not 111uraimfe  OM3  dltilna)       OMt DMNudiq & Dtdnsi O0 idill
J. Htamt r4tal PtSs 0e2. ..  ....93...
wrd Oat bw*x  ttas        "1s    "'    1         1      1      1
Jl  plFs-Oe*-*---*-*----........             . .......                      .... ......   
Pllic I  -lA iy Sm. LT   t9          40M    6131   471   400   .O   45         98 tMW    355  S343  310
Offfleat Cr tws              19%     M     613   10   tm 1    7 2    44    44    912  10a0   1095  I20
At      el 0t    59    63li                     100   1611  91          0    We           37    4761   40W
ofle W  Ill                0    354      09    514    543    4V       0    4O 8   14V    UR    mt   2-
of .Ad It D                0    212    33      5 w    408    540      0    431   1e   119    Ws   293
sit towe                   19    4W        4    47?    13    219 4*m        39      00   4       6173   4221
Mru Crdiur                  1M    2917   553MI 3              10    4M    5         147   221  2M1M   25912
9*Uas                      37?   -211   414    .43    43   -13    13W    1         1618   193   31W    303
Pftrwait  rksw            134   313   SW    SW    UN    .7M    30)  4135  1515   311              1M    W
O          Ast                  0       0      0      0      00                                 a0 0   0       a0
Touta LT                      13V    4006   613    675    4500   .13S   M5    OM8  50   533   VW%    WM1
u crUet                         0      0    _81    .       .79   .4900     0    3     11    101      9       469
_;: shot-Tw  CIlttat    -     37S    19   -131   -M    .6O -70             0   419    3       Ms   40    am
tout. fret. IP a Not sr      .17   5W    S         4      3751  .34    4M   1M   390M   41    445   UM
ba* ad m wts                  "O  1W  1SW  1    "s  1950
Uw* of TOW  LaWTwm US
1. t5 as of ToWt              0.00   5.00   5.50   5i     6.D    7.5
2    Mn d Tal                 0.O    4.         5.1 5L$   6.14   7.81
3. ItOnA u X of Tot           0.00   9J3   10A    11.20  1.43  15.J
hte of LT Debt Sawvlis
1. IM3 a S of Toul           0.00   15   6.t    4.16   454   6.4
2. toA  s% of Totl            0.00     0.   O.     0.3    03   0.3
3. 1t" Xa  Sof Tout           0.00 105I   7.?    4.54   4.3   6.78
.......... n....
1. LIU.Tem 0.bti1a^rts       21.21 31.0M  5TA7   61.01  44.17  56.
2i  0 CrelO                   0.0O   1.04   LI5   1.90   1J.   0O
S. OrtTam OaMW                0oD  3.0   1L8      1.    11.97  11.96
4. LT# tt OWIEIW             21.21   .15  742  79.43  77.71  46.3
1. LI-Tuss Dot/.P             1.51   3.43   8.0   W8      LI?  1O0S
2. U. I'IIYIU                 0.00   O.12   OJ  O    O         0.
.                                Dt t   000   2.21   2*    3  1.45    23
4. Lt.DU ff o,P               1.51    .I   117  11.39  10.7   12.
Oft Swvlme JAD
1. IaM    a& SMA a   LS       4.5   5.    6.7*   ?A4    .5O  9.50
V I#"sw.raod LT               0.0 0 .00    o.oo   .Lao  0GM    0.00
3.  *out LLT0m %        s     43    1       6.78   rA7 L4  8 .50 9.3
4. U  gq w 6ft v. hP.   0oo   0.00   0*    0is   0.8   0a
L.               v oft        0.0    1.3    1.43   SAO   1.0   0.L0
6.  Ie Lt      t  M)          4.n   7.73   8.             9      11*
,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100/51_91.........................................._..... ....



MAP SECTION
. .
.



CHINA
TARIM RIVER BASIN PROJECT
YERQLANG RIVER BASIN SCHEME
Pois Wwks Arem%w Plo7 5.                                                                        75.                85.                                 tr '
PlWoNs:~~~~~~~~dreedi H                   Powe Plnts
Sable Yid Lmind                  *       Poposed
low Yeld Lond                           Plamned
-                edonslnned  tion         *         stinJ
- - ! Wel FbIds
m        WlPoprnusaP   o- Forests              Rer
heBd Areo Boundary                       Resernis/ Loks
Caals to be Limed ond Re-Buib            Gate,
-   Main and Ofusnch
-ROOds
Stsustng Canals:                         Wddon/flg
-       Main                              *   County Non) Hedquartes kJ A JR  7IZHIQU    
Brandch                               Prefedt.m Heodquorte
P Ptovinne Headquatt                                                                                                 Y        NSU
Drains:                             -   Counly xoGn) Boundaries
_ _   cMMain Drains lo be i tend    _             idure  oundaies              s
and RehabIlitate
oandch Drains to be, Edxt             uycinoe Boundanes
and Rehabiitfted
- -     Eisding Main and Branch               Intarnational Boundary                                                                                                 H  I
To7xkrgan                                                                                 7op/0eb                    Jirxhi'T
$F 42                                                          -A
Shoche
7r                        * ~~~~~rM    _                                              -.                                                                           A S     e's
~~~~~~~~ /E'A                                                                                                                                  N\         75, .
Fann
3r                            HOTAN    i              7                                                               r         wt 
11;tkorgam                       ARTUX                                                                                                                                      A |  iR Ypro\Jbh   ; A.TU.'
.4 ~  ~       ~       ~       - 
K ^                         q--                         |                                                                                       Khh           
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                     -
f , M _ ,-o,D \ rkit                                                                 A-F t"    \s^
SI            (t                   HOTAiN          r        sa                                                           se    3 5\-d/,r
45.0  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~nacne                -~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ah
7.                    A                                                                                                                   W~~~~~~~~~~&r~~~~~: HW



IBRD 22309R
'   --  g                 '    -              _          rO           t11                   la7r                                            .                                    .   _                      . . z~T. K.
o  ti                    er                e~        -5                       e  rs,umn
JUNHE ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~TARIM RIVER BASIN PROJECT
1-- *-11 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WEIGAN RIVER BASINSCHEME 
Proted Works Arews:                           R.ivets
ND         i            1      >> ~                                                       -     bStable Yield Land                  Renseroirs / Lakes
Low Yield Land                        *    Hydroelectric Power Plonts
Planned Reloarnotion                  0   Gates  structures
Canals to be bred and Re-Buit            -    Roods
Moin and Bronch                            Selected Towns I Villages
C   County (Stan) Headquarters
tisiatta Canal,  \                       *   Prefrcture Headquorters
-err                                                                                                                 .1wgA 2                         q  <                  .a.e- Main        0   Pro,ince Headquarters
.ranch                               -     County (ian) Boundaries
Prefecture boundaries
Main Drains:                                 nProince Boundaries
oe                                . ... X,                                                                                      T-  o be Esended and Rebuilt               International Boundary
uEiting
1 S    in    5                                                                                                                                                                                  T-  - =   1
22|5        *                  ANSU_>__4-  _  *  1[ lRit. 99
el   $  'L  "  "  R  .  --  .e, -- -- t _ _ 1 t < Sf } i . <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APRL 99



