Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2294 CHA
(Tarim Basin Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
XINJIANG UYGUR AUTONOMOUS REGION
Dated October 28, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2294 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 28, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and XINJIANG UYGUR AUTONOMOUS REGION (Xinjiang).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety-three million eight 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 93,800,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Xinjiang 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
WHEREAS Xinjiang, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Xinjiang declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, including passenger vehicles, required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Xinjiang shall otherwise agree, Xinjiang shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Xinjiang shall: (i) make available a portion of the proceeds of 
the Credit through PMOs to Project Entities for purposes of carrying out Parts B, C.3, 
C.4, C.5, D.2 and D.3 of the Project under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association; and (ii) ensure that interest rates charged for such funds shall be not 
less than ABC's prevailing interest rates for similar loans for similar purposes, such 
rates to be reviewed from time to time with the Association in light of the cost of 
funds to ABC and changes in ABC's interest rates.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. Xinjiang shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating respectively 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) Xinjiang shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Xinjiang shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by Xinjiang of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Xinjiang shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of Xinjiang 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Xinjiang shall, through the Regional PMO:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association.
Page  3
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, Xinjiang shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Xinjiang thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Xinjiang of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
Page  4
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Xinjiang:
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
Finance Bureau
16 Mingde Road
Urumqi, 830002,
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
6299
79070 PMOCN
Urumqi
Xinjiang
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Xinjiang, or 
by Xinjiang on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be 
taken or executed by its Governor or Vice Governor or such other person or persons as 
the Governor or Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and Xinjiang shall furnish 
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
XINJIANG UYGUR AUTONOMOUS REGION
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
Page  5
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in  Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Improved livestock breeds, may be procured under contracts awarded through 
limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of 
bids invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the 
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof.
2.
Civil works, and items or groups of items for building materials (excluding 
steel, timber and plastic sheeting), small farm machinery and seed processing 
equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.
Items or groups of items for laboratory equipment and instruments, agricultural 
machinery and implements and improved livestock breeds estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from 
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
4.
Earthworks for land development and small canals, and on-farm works may be 
carried out by force account.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more, and with respect to each contract for civil works or earthworks 
estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more to be procured pursuant to Part C.2 above, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be 
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the 
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such
Page  6
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified 
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other 
information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the 
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist Xinjiang in carrying out of the Project, Xinjiang shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
In order to ensure effective coordination in carrying out the Project, Xinjiang 
shall maintain or cause to be maintained:
(a)
a regional project management office with functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Association and staffed by competent staff in adequate numbers, 
including an executive project director from the Xinjiang Regional Water Conservancy 
Bureau; and 
(b)
(i) a project management office (PMO) at each of the prefecture and 
county levels; and (ii) a bureau project executing unit in each agricultural, animal 
husbandry and water conservancy bureau, at each of the regional, prefecture and county 
levels, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Association and staffed 
by competent staff in adequate numbers.
2.
Xinjiang shall cause each PMO to assist Xinjiang in complying with the financial 
reporting requirements of Article III of this Agreement.
3.
Xinjiang shall take all measures, necessary or appropriate, to ensure that 
adequate supplies of diammonium phosphate (DAP) and other fertilizers are made 
available to farmers in the Project Area, and to this end, shall provide by December 
15 of each year during Project implementation, to the Association for its review and 
comment, a report of the availability of budgetary funds allocated to the purchase of 
DAP, the amounts of DAP and other fertilizers made available in the preceding year and 
to be made available in the next coming year to farmers in the Project Area.  For 
purposes of this paragraph "adequate supplies" of DAP and other fertilizers means 
about 150 kilograms (kg) of fertilizer per ha of grain crops and about 225 kg of 
fertilizer per ha of cotton.
4.
In allocating leases of wasteland reclaimed as productive land under the 
Project, Xinjiang shall ensure that priority is given to low-income farmers, landless 
farmers and farmers with small land holdings with the objective of increasing farm 
size, and to this end, shall provide by March 15, 1992, to the Association for its 
review and comment, a plan for the allocation of such reclaimed land.
5.
Xinjiang shall cause each Prefecture within the Project Area:
 
(a)
by March 15, 1992, to hold a workshop and to develop agricultural 
extension guidelines, and by March 15, 1993, to develop technical manuals, all 
satisfactory to the Association; and
Page  7
(b)
thereafter, utilize such guidelines and manuals in training local 
extension personnel.
6.
Xinjiang shall:
 
(a)
by February 15, 1992, appoint an independent panel of technical experts 
for purposes of providing technical advise on implementation of the Project;
(b)
cause such panel to review and provide to the Regional PMO a report of 
the progress of implementing the Project on an annual basis; and
(c)
without limitation to the reporting provisions of Section 9.06 of the 
General Conditions, promptly provide such report to the Association.
7.
Xinjiang shall:
 
(a)
by June 15 of each year during Project implementation beginning June 15, 
1993, provide to the Association for its review and comment, a report of its annual 
survey and analysis of the prices charged during the preceding twelve-month period for 
grain sold at: (i) fixed and negotiated prices to state-owned entities; and (ii) 
market-based prices; and
(b)
cause the production of grain incremental to the previous year's 
production and financed under the Project to be sold at: (a) negotiated prices to 
state-owned entities; or (b) market-based prices.
8.
Xinjiang shall:
 
(a)
by March 15 of each year during Project implementation beginning March 
15, 1993, provide to the Association for its review and comment and to Xinjiang's 
Price Bureau, its annual survey of cotton prices charged and production incentives 
given during the preceding twelve-month period, as well as its recommendation to 
adjust cotton prices and give production incentives during the next twelve-month 
period in order to encourage farmers to produce cotton; and
(b)
by December 31, 1993, provide to the Association for its review and 
comment, a plan for allocation of quotas for additional cotton production in order to 
permit farmers to generate sufficient income (from combined cotton and other cash-crop 
production) to permit ecologically sound crop rotation, including planting of green 
manure (clover).
9.
(a)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Xinjiang shall cause the 
Yehe Power Company (YHPC) to produce for each of its fiscal years: (i) after its 
fiscal year ending on December 31, 1995, funds from internal sources equivalent to not 
less than 15% of the annual average of YHPC's capital expenditures incurred, or 
expected to be incurred, for that year and the four next following fiscal years; and 
(ii) beginning on January 1, 2000, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less 
than 20% of the annual average of such capital expenditures incurred or expected to be 
incurred for that year and each year thereafter.
(b)
Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years, Xinjiang shall cause YHPC to 
review, on the basis of forecasts prepared by YHPC and satisfactory to the 
Association, whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in 
respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the 
Association a copy of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that YHPC would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for YHPC's fiscal years covered by such review, Xinjiang shall 
promptly cause YHPC to take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, 
adjustments of the structure or levels of YHPC's rates) in order to meet such 
requirements.
(d)
For purposes of this paragraph, "funds from internal sources" and 
"capital expenditures" shall be determined in accordance with a methodology acceptable 
to the Association.
10.
Xinjiang shall:
Page  8
(a)
by December 31, 1999, ensure that water charges are collected for 
irrigation schemes in Yerqiang and Weigan at levels sufficient to cover full annual 
operation and maintenance costs and a portion of capital costs for such irrigation 
schemes, such cost to be determined in accordance with a methodology acceptable to the 
Association;
(b)
by December 31, 1993, furnish to the Association for its review and 
comment, a plan: (i) detailing the operating and maintenance costs of such irrigation 
schemes; and (ii) setting forth a scheme to collect water charges sufficient to meet 
the requirements set forth in subparagraph (a) hereof; and 
(c)
thereafter, review with the Association on an annual basis, the progress 
of carrying out the plan referred to in subparagraph (b) hereof and if any such review 
shows that Xinjiang would not meet the requirements of such plan, Xinjiang shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its water rates) in order
to meet such requirements.
11.
Xinjiang shall ensure that charges for services provided by Animal Husbandry 
Bureaus at the county and township levels are collected for livestock services 
(veterinary, grassland and
artificial insemination services) at rates sufficient to cover full annual operation 
and maintenance costs and a portion of capital costs of such services, such costs to 
be determined in accordance with a methodology acceptable to the Association.
