                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2751




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H7330)

                                    ON A

                                   GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 93.9 MILLION
                       (US$150 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                   TO THE

                        REPUBLIC OF CÔTE D’IVOIRE

                                    FOR A

        POSTCONFLICT RECONSTRUCTION AND RECOVERY GRANT



                                April 30, 2013




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
Country Department AFCF2
Africa Region
                             Currency Equivalents
                              (As of June 1, 2011)

                       Currency unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
                              US$1 = CFAF 450

                                  Fiscal Year
                            January 1 – December 31

                               ABBREVIATIONS
ARCC     Autorité de Régulation du Café et du Cacao (Coffee and Cocoa Regulatory Agency)
AfDB     African Development Bank
ANARE    Autorité Nationale de Régulation du Secteur de l’Électricité (National Authority for the
         Regulation of the Electricity Sector)
ANRMP    National Public Procurement Authority
ASTER    Application des Services du Trésor en Réseaux (Treasury Service Database)
BCC      Bourse du Café et du Cacao (Coffee and Cocoa Exchange)
BCEAO    Central Bank of West African States
BNI      Banque Nationale d’Investissement (National Investment Bank)
CCC      Coffee-Cocoa Council
CEA      Country Environmental Analysis
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CFAF     Franc of the African Financial Community
CGRAE    Caisse Générale de Retraite des Agents de l’Etat (Civil Servants' National Retirement
         Fund)
CIE      Compagnie Ivoirienne d’Electricité (Ivorian Electricity Company)
CIF      Cost, insurance, freight
CNCE     Caisse Nationale des Caisses d’Epargne (National Savings Fund)
CNPS     Caisse Nationale de Prévoyance Sociale (National Social Protection Fund)
CNW      Central, northern, and western zones
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Review
CPI      Consumer Price Index
CSO      Civil society organization
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
DGBF     Direction Générale du Budget et de Finances (General Directorate of Budget and
         Finance)
DGE      Direction Générale de l’Economie (General Directorate of Economy)
DGP      Direction Générale de la Planification (General Directorate of Planning)
DPO      Development Policy Operation
EC       European Commission
ECF      Extended Credit Facility (IMF)
ECOWAS   Economic Community of West African States
EGRG     Economic Governance and Recovery Grant
EITI     Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative
EPCA     Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance
FSAP     Financial Sector Assessment Program
FSF      Fragile States Facility
FDPCC    Fonds de Développement et de Promotion des Activités des Producteurs du Café et du
         Cacao (Development Fund for the Promotion of Coffee and Cocoa Producers’
         Activities)
FIMR     Fonds d'Investissement en Milieu Rural (Rural Investment Fund)
FRC      Fonds de Régulation et de Contrôle du Café et du Cacao (Fund for the Regulation and
         Control of Coffee and Cocoa)


                                           i
FRCI        Côte d’Ivoire Republican Army
GDP         Gross domestic product
GIDG        Governance and Institutional Development Grant
HIPC        Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA         International Development Association
IEC         Independent Electoral Commission
IFC         International Finance Corporation
IFRS        International financial reporting standards
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IOC         International oil company
ISN         Interim Strategy Note
LDP         Letter of development policy
LICUS       Low-income country under stress
MDRI        Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative
MFI         Microfinance institutions
MEF         Ministry of Economy and Finance
MTEF        Medium-term expenditure framework
NPRA        National Procurement Regulatory Authority
NPV         Net present value
OCHA        Office of Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
PCAP        Post-Conflict Assistance Project
PCRRG       Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Recovery Grant
PDO         Program Development Objectives
PEER        Public Environmental Expenditure Review
PEFA        Public expenditure and financial accountability
PEMFAR      Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
PETROCI     Société Nationale d’Opérations Pétrolières de la Côte d’Ivoire (National Company for
            Petroleum Operations in Côte d’Ivoire)
PFM         Public financial management
PRSG        Poverty Reduction Support Grant
PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSC         Production sharing contract
SEA         Social and Environmental Assessment
SIGFIP      Integrated Public Finance Management System
SIGFAE      System Intégré de Gestion du Fichier des Agents de l’Etat
SIGMAP      Integrated System for the Management of Public Procurement
SIR         Société Ivoirienne de Raffinage (Ivorian Refining Company)
SODECI      Société de Distribution d’Eau de la Côte d’Ivoire (Water Distribution Company of Côte
            d’Ivoire)
SOGEPE      Société de Gestion du Patrimoine du Secteur de l’Électricité (Electricity Sector Asset
            Management Company)
SOPIE       Société d’Opération Ivoirienne d’Électricité (Ivorian Electricity Operations Company)
UNACOOPEC   Union Nationale des Coopératives d’Epargne et de Crédit (National Union of Savings
            and Credit Cooperatives)
VAT         Value-added tax
WAEMU       West African Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA)
WDR         World Development Report


                       Vice President   :   Makhtar Diop
                     Country Director   :   Madani M. Tall
                      Sector Director   :   Marcelo Giugale
                      Sector Manager    :   Miria Pigato
                 Project Team Leader    :   Philip English
                    ICR Team Leader     :   Jean-Noel Amantchi Gogoua

                                             ii
                                         REPUBLIC OF CÔTE D’IVOIRE

           POSTCONFLICT RECONSTRUCTION AND RECOVERY GRANT
                              CONTENTS



     A. Basic Information
     B. Key Dates
     C. Ratings Summary
     D. Sector and Theme Codes
     E. Bank Staff
     F. Results Framework Analysis
     G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
     H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives, and Design ............................................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................................... 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................................... 15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................................................... 16
6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................................ 17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ........................... 18
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............................. 19
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) ............................................................................... 20
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any) ...................................................... 21
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................................... 22
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................................ 26
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................................... 27
Annex 7. Country Map .................................................................................................................. 28




                                                                     iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                              CI: Post-Conflict
                                                                              Reconstruction and
Country:                Côte d'Ivoire               Program Name:
                                                                              Recovery Grant
                                                                              (PCRRG)
Program ID:             P122800                     L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H7330
ICR Date:               04/10/2013                  ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                              Government of Côte
Lending Instrument:     DPL                         Borrower:
                                                                              d'Ivoire
Original Total
                        SDR 93.90M                  Disbursed Amount:         SDR 93.87M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         SDR 93.87M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Economy and Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process               Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/22/2011        Effectiveness:
Appraisal:            07/14/2011        Restructuring(s):
                                        Mid-Term
Approval:             09/15/2011
                                        Review:
                                        Closing:                    09/30/2012        09/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Moderate
Bank Performance:                                   Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings            Borrower                           Ratings
Quality at Entry:           Satisfactory   Government:                        Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:     Satisfactory                                      Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                            Satisfactory                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:



                                                   iv
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem
Program at any time        No                      Quality at Entry:        None
(Yes/No):
Problem Program at any                             Quality of
                       No                                                   None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision:
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agroindustry, marketing, and trade                                     29                  29
Banking                                                                14                  14
Central government administration                                      43                  43
Coal mining                                                            7                   7
Oil and gas                                                            7                   7


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness                                 15                  15
Other environment and natural resources management                     14                  14
Public expenditure, financial management, and
                                                                       43                  43
procurement
Rural policies and institutions                                        14                  14
State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization                 14                  14

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Madani M. Tall                         Madani M. Tall
Sector Manager:            Miria A. Pigato                        Miria A. Pigato
Program Team Leader:       Volker Treichel                        Philip English
ICR Team Leader:           Jean-Noel Amantchi Gogoua
ICR Primary Author:        Jean-Noel Amantchi Gogoua




                                                v
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Program Document)

The overall objective of the Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Recovery Grant (PCRRG)
was to provide rapid financial support to the new government installed in June 2011,
while supporting essential reforms to improve governance, transparency, and efficiency
in public expenditure management and in the key sectors of cocoa, energy, and finance.

Specifically, in the context of the implementation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy, and
in line with the public financial management (PFM) action plan, the PCRRG aimed at
contributing to:

  (i)   the government's efforts to restore credibility, comprehensiveness, and
        transparency in the budget;
  (ii) enhance the private sector confidence, investment, and growth recovery through
        improved governance and transparency in the energy, cocoa, and financial
        sectors;
  (iii) prepare for anticipated debt relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
        (HIPC) Initiative and the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI).

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)

Revised Program Development Objectives (PDO; as approved by original approving
authority)

N/A

(a) PDO indicator(s)

                                            Original target                     Actual value
                                                              Formally
                                             values (from                       achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline value                       revised target
                                               approval                        completion or
                                                                values
                                             documents)                         target years
Indicator 1:       Health and education expenditure share
Value
(quantitative or            28%                     29%                            25.1%
qualitative)
Date achieved            12/15/2010           12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments
                   Education and health spending remained below the target, even though it
(incl. %
                   increased by 18 percent from 2011 to 2012 (87% achieved).
achievement)

(b) Intermediate outcome indicator(s)




                                               vi
                                            Original target                       Actual value
                                                              Formally
                                              values (from                        achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline value                       revised target
                                                approval                         completion or
                                                                values
                                               documents)                         target years
Indicator 1:       Public discussion of budget
Value
                   No public discussion of
(quantitative or                                       Yes                            Yes
                   budget execution
qualitative)
Date achieved            12/10/2010            10/31/2012                         09/30/2012
                   Chamber of Accounts published the certificat de conformité of budget
Comments
                   execution law for 2009. The National Assembly discussed/voted during first
(incl. %
                   session (August 2012) the draft budget execution law for 2009 and the laws
achievement)
                   from FY 2004 to FY 2010 (100% achieved).
Indicator 2:       Complaint investigation
Value
(quantitative or             No                        Yes                            Yes
qualitative)
Date achieved             08/31/2011             10/31/2012                       02/15/2012
Comments            The ANRMP’s hotline became effective. Complaints are being registered and
(incl. %           investigated. The results are published in the weekly procurement bulletin
achievement)       (100% achieved).
Indicator 3:       Average cocoa taxation as share of world price
Value
(quantitative or             0%                    22%                                22%
qualitative)
Date achieved             12/30/2010             12/31/2011                           11/02/2011
Comments           The government adopted a new cocoa sector strategy in November 2011 that
(incl. %           limited the total taxation on cocoa to 22 percent of the cost, insurance, and
achievement)       freight (CIF) price (100% achieved).
Indicator 4:       Cocoa institutional structure set up
Value
(quantitative or             No                        Yes                            Yes
qualitative)
Date achieved            12/31/2010             09/30/2012                        12/28/2011
Comments
                   The Cocoa-Coffee Council was set up on December 28, 2011, by Presidential
(incl. %
                   Ordinance 2011-481 (100% achieved).
achievement)
Indicator 5:       UNACOOPEC’s annual losses
Value
                                             CFAF 1.2 billion
(quantitative or   CFAF 5.8 billion                                           CFAF 11.03 billion
                                             (reduced by 80%)
qualitative)
Date achieved            12/31/2009             12/31/2011                        12/31/2011
Comments
                   UNACOOPEC’s annual losses reached 11.03 billion at end-2011 (0%
(incl. %
                   achievement).
achievement)
                   Certification of conformity with Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative
Indicator 6:
                   (EITI)
Value                         No                   Yes                                No

                                                 vii
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved            12/31/2010             06/30/2012                           06/30/2012
                   The National EITI Steering Committee released the final EITI reports for 2008,
Comments
                   2009, and 2010 on May 10, 2012. The 2011 report was not ready. Côte
(incl. %
                   d’Ivoire, however, is not certified as conforming to EITI criteria (75%
achievement)
                   achievement).

G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                        IP                disbursements
         archived
                                                                              (US$ millions)
  1     05/27/2012            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  146.18

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not applicable




                                               viii
1. Program Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      President Ouattara was sworn in on May 6, 2011, after several months of
political impasse and a short civil war. The second round of the 2010 elections led to a
major military conflict between armed forces supporting the incumbent President Laurent
Gbagbo and the Forces Republicaines de Côte d’Ivoire, the Côte d’Ivoire Republican
Army (FRCI), made up of Forces Nouvelles supporting President-Elect Ouattara as well as
some groups of the previous national army who joined President Ouattara’s camp. After 10
days of intense fighting, the outgoing president was taken into custody on April 11 with
support from United Nations and French troops. Peace gradually returned to Abidjan, and
Alassane Ouattara’s official inauguration—attended by 21 heads of state—took place on
May 2.

2.      Reconciliation, with effective justice and enforced security, were serious
challenges for the new authorities. A truth and reconciliation commission was set up, and
the International Criminal Court launched investigations into crimes against humanity that
happened during the crisis. The former president and several of his supporters were held
under house arrest. On November 30, 2011, the former president was extradited to the
International War Crimes Tribunal. The new government aimed at getting the
Disarmament-Demobilization-Reinsertion process back on track to address the situation of
excombatants at a time when the overall security situation in the country was tense.

3.      The economy showed signs of slowing even before the latest crisis, and went
into free fall in the first four months of 2011. Gross domestic product (GDP) growth
reached 3.8 percent in 2009, helped by high export prices for oil and cocoa. As a result of
renewed political uncertainty and extensive electricity blackouts in early 2010, combined
with a 21.5 percent fall in crude oil production and the postelection crisis, GDP increased
by only 2.4 percent in 2010. In January 2011, the European Union imposed trade sanctions
that prevented imports and exports through the two ports. The previous government was
unable to pay salaries, and the central bank ceased operations, followed by the closure of
major commercial banks. By mid-March, around 80 percent of formal sector employees
were laid off due to lack of financial resources. As a result, aggregate demand dropped
sharply, while prices peaked due to a combination of external trade sanctions and the
deterioration in the domestic transport of food. Looting was also extensive, affecting from
30 to 50 percent of all enterprises.

4.      Public finances were seriously strained as revenue collapsed while most
spending obligations remained, leading to the accumulation of new domestic and
external arrears. The government was unable to collect cocoa export taxes, customs
duties or value-added taxes (VATs) on imports, while internal taxes were disrupted due to
the closure of enterprises and major banks. Arrears accumulated on civil servant salaries,
supplier payments, and debt service. The new government relied on a cash budget for the
rest of 2011, with cocoa export taxes collected on the large cocoa stocks and crude
petroleum sales as the main sources of revenue in the first months of the new government.
Arrears accumulated with the World Bank and the African Development Bank (AfDB)
(US$32 million and US$15 million, respectively) that were cleared by the end of May
                                            1
2011. Côte d’Ivoire missed a US$29 million Eurobond coupon payable to commercial
creditors at end of December 2010, and the new authorities were unable to honor the
coupon at the end of June 2011. Much larger arrears accumulated with the Paris Club.
Domestic arrears grew, but the new government committed to reducing the stock by end-
2011.

5.      Consistent with World Development Report (WDR), a significant, rapid, and
coordinated response from the international community has been critical in
reestablishing some order in public finances after the crisis. The French government
responded quickly with a €350 million loan, of which the first €200 million was disbursed
in late April 2011. This enabled payment of two months of arrears on civil servant salaries.
The AfDB contributed a grant of about US$150 million in mid-June 2011. The
International Monetary Fund (IMF) terminated the previous economic and financial
program supported by the Extended Credit Facility and approved a single-tranche Rapid
Credit Facility. Afterward, the IMF disbursed 25 percent of the quota (approximately
US$129 million) in July 2011.

6.      Over the medium term, Côte d’Ivoire was expected to regain economic
momentum and return to a higher growth trajectory. The IMF approved the country
economic and financial program, which anticipated a 6.3 percent GDP decline in 2011
following the postelection crisis. Subject to improvement of the security situation and
restoration of investors’ confidence, 9 percent real GDP growth was anticipated in 2012.
Investment opportunities abounded, mainly in oil exploration, electric power generation,
construction, and transport infrastructure. Consumer Price Index inflation was expected to
remain at 2.5 to 3.0 percent during 2011–14. The current account balance was expected to
turn to a moderate deficit over the medium term, driven by significant outflows for service
payments and private transfers. The debt outlook was favorable as the country was
expected to reach the HIPC completion point in 2012, which would provide space for
much-needed borrowing to rehabilitate the economy.

7.      At appraisal, the PCRRG reflected the Bank priorities to engage in post-
conflict states as outlined in the 2011 WDR, Conflict, Security and Development, and
in the Africa Strategy. The PCRRG was designed as a rapid-response support to help
break the cycle of repeated violence that could occur in this post-conflict period. However,
some of its objectives, particularly the one related to the cocoa sector, could be seen as
overly ambitious, especially given the complex political situation that prevailed after the
crisis.

8.      The PCRRG was designed to take into account the limited time available for the
new government to define its priorities. These objectives were articulated to ensure
incremental institutional changes to improve governance and build confidence. Given the
complex political situation, this operation focused on a small set of feasible reforms. The
PCRRG was set to be delivered very quickly to support the new government’s efforts to
ensure a credible budget for 2011, reestablish key public services, and clear private sector
arrears to promote job creation. The PCRRG addressed the foundation of Côte d’Ivoire’s
growth and poverty reduction agenda while it also contributed to competitiveness and
employment promotion. This operation was also in line with the Country Partnership
Strategy, and was adopted at the same time as the new youth employment emergency
project.
                                              2
1.2 Original Program Development Objectives and Key Indicators

9.     The overall objective of the Postconflict Reconstruction and Recovery Grant was to
provide rapid financial support to the new government installed in June 2011, while
supporting essential reforms to improve governance, transparency, and efficiency in public
expenditure management and in the key sectors of cocoa, energy, and finance.

10.    Specifically, in the context of the implementation of the Poverty Reduction
Strategy, and in line with the PFM action plan, the PCRRG aimed at contributing to:

   (i)   the government’s efforts to restore credibility, comprehensiveness, and
         transparency to the budget;
   (ii) enhance the private sector confidence, investment, and growth recovery through
         improved governance and transparency in the energy, cocoa, and financial
         sectors; and
   (iii) prepare for anticipated debt relief under the HIPC Initiative and MDRI.

Key outcomes indicators (as approved)

Two outcomes were expected from this operation, and they were captured through
seven key performance indicators in the results framework.

Outcome 1: Governance, transparency, and efficiency in public expenditure
management are improved, as measured by:

   (i)    Share of education and health in budget increased to 29 percent;

   (ii)   Draft budget execution law for 2009 and the corresponding report and declaration
          of the Chamber of Accounts have been published, and discussed in the National
          Assembly and in the media; and

   (iii) All written complaints and calls received on the public procurement hot line are
         registered and investigated, and results published in the weekly procurement
         bulletin.

Outcome 2: Governance and efficiency in the key sectors are improved, as measured
by:

   (i)    A new strategy has been approved, limiting total taxation on cocoa to no more
          than 22 percent of the cost, insurance, freight (CIF) price;

   (ii)   A new institutional structure for the cocoa sector has been put in place reflecting
          the recommendations of the audits, including a process for annual audits, and
          there has been media discussion of the audits;

   (iii) National Union of Savings and Credit Cooperatives (UNACOOPEC) losses are
         reduced by at least 80 percent; and

                                              3
   (iv) Côte d’Ivoire is certified as conforming to Extractive Industry Transparency
        Initiative (EITI) criteria.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification

N/A

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program

Policy area 1: governance, transparency, and efficiency in public expenditure management

11.    In this area, the PCRRG focused on the adoption and implementation of medium-
term expenditure frameworks (MTEFs) in the health and education sectors to strengthen
pro-poor spending; the improvement of one component of the budget cycle, namely the
auditing of budget execution; and the effectiveness of the public procurement disputes
handled by the procurement authority.

12.    PCRRG built on the policy reforms supported under the Economic
Governance and Recovery Grant series (1, 2 and 3). In public expenditure
management, the PCRRG aimed at improving the transparency and soundness of
budget execution and fostering demand for reporting and transparency. The need to
support the provision of basic social services to vulnerable and poor households called for
the adoption of MTEFs in the health and education sectors. The government had prepared
these MTEFs, thus it was necessary to move toward their effective implementation. Even
though the government was implementing the PFM action plan adopted after the 2008
Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review (PEMFAR), the
PCRRG adopted a set of measures aimed at ensuring that the pro-poor spending would
help in increasing basic social services delivery to the population affected by the crisis,
namely displaced persons and the vulnerable.

13.    The PCRRG also intended to strengthen the external control of budget execution.
The budget cycle was not entirely observed; budget execution bills from 2007 and 2008
were published, but not within the legal deadline of 10 months after the end of the fiscal
year. As for 2010, there had been no public discussion of budget execution in 2010—thus,
budget orthodoxy was not respected. Therefore, the authorities committed to speeding up
the transmission of budget execution laws and public accounts to the Chambre des
Comptes, the Supreme Audit Institution, improve their quality, and have them published
and discussed in the National Assembly and in the media.

14.     In procurement, the PCRRG intended to strengthen the transparency of the
public procurement framework. The government made substantial progress toward the
modernization of the national procurement system. A code of ethics was adopted and a
hotline set up to fight fraud and corruption in public procurement; these interventions were
not fully effective.

Policy area 2: governance and efficiency in key sectors


                                             4
The PCRRG aimed to strengthen transparency and efficiency in the finance, energy,
and cocoa sectors.

15.     The PCRRG intended to build on the outcomes of the last Economic
Governance and Recovery Grant (EGRG) to advance progress in the microfinance
sector. The main microfinance sector institution, UNACOOPEC, was under a restructuring
plan that was expected to reduce its annual losses by at least 80 percent. Due to massive
losses over recent years, the government had appointed a new UNACOOPEC Board of
Directors, downsized the level of staff, and closed 18 cooperatives. Because
UNACOOPEC is a major player in the government’s plan to improve access to financial
services, it was necessary to ensure UNACOOPEC’s stability. The PCRRG intended to
ensure that the authorities moved forward on the implementation of the UNACOOPEC
restructuring plan. It focused on the financial viability of this microfinance institution
network and at achieving the aforementioned loss reduction.

16.     The PCRRG intended to improve the transparency in the energy and mining
sectors. The authorities engaged in the EITI process and progress was needed to move the
country toward conformity with EITI criteria. The first validation reports were produced
on data from FY 2006 and FY 2007. However, additional steps were needed to allow
conformity with EITI criteria. After the postelection crisis, the new president sent a letter
to the International Secretariat confirming its commitment to achieve full compliance with
EITI.

17.    The PCRRG was intended to enhance the ongoing reform of the cocoa sector.
Previous analysis by the Bank and others documented the poverty impact of the cocoa
sector in Côte d’Ivoire. Any shock on the international cocoa price has major fiscal
implications as well as important effects on rural household income and welfare. The need
to ensure effective transfer of revenues to farmers motivated the decision to limit the tax on
cocoa exports to a maximum of 22 percent of the CIF price, a decision supported by the
PCRRG. Governance also remained a challenge in the cocoa sector; weak institutions that
also lacked accountability were still prevailing in the sector. The PCRRG intended to
address this governance challenge by setting up a new institutional framework—the
Coffee-Cocoa Council—with enhanced audit and reporting mechanisms.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas
N/A

1.6 Other Significant Changes
N/A

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

18.    The program included seven prior actions. They were effectively completed as a
foundation to move toward achievement of operation outcomes (see table 1).




                                              5
                                           Table 1. Prior Actions
Prior actions as reflected in the financing agreement                               Comments
1. The recipient adopted sectoral MTEFs for the health         Completed. These MTEFs were adopted and used for
and education sectors.                                        preparation of the 2011 budget.
2. The draft budget execution laws for 2007 and 2008          Completed. The draft budget execution laws for fiscal
have been finalized and submitted to the Council of           years 2007 and 2008 have been submitted to the
Ministers, and the corresponding budget execution             Council of Ministers, and the corresponding budget
reports and declarations of conformity duly issued and        execution reports and declarations of conformity have
published by the Chambre des Comptes.                         been published on the Web site of the Chambre des
                                                              Comptes.
3. The recipient has issued a code of ethics for public       Completed. The code is ready and a ministerial order
procurement and opened a hotline to combat fraud and          has been signed. The hot line has been activated. In
corruption in public procurement.                             addition, authorities have launched a communication
                                                              campaign to publicize the hotline.
4. Beginning no later than the start of the 2010/11 crop      Completed. A ministerial order was issued in
season, all export taxes on cocoa have been converted to      September 2010, just before the 2010–11 cocoa
an ad valorem rate of no more than 22 percent of the CIF      campaign.
price.
5. Summaries of the external financial and organizational     Completed. The cocoa audits have been published on
audits of the four cocoa entities (FRC, BCC, ARCC, and        the Web site of the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
FDPCC) have been published on the Web site of the
Ministry of Economy and Finance.
6. The recipient has initiated implementation of the          Completed. The National Microfinance Commission
restructuring plan for UNACOOPEC-CI, beginning with           authorized the Minister of Economy and Finance to
the renewal of its Board of Directors, reducing its staff     close 18 cooperatives and a ministerial order has been
levels at its headquarters, and closure of at least 10        signed. The general assembly of UNACOOPEC met
cooperatives.                                                 in July at which time 80 percent of the Board of
                                                              Directors was changed. Twenty-two staff members
                                                              were released from headquarters.

7. The recipient has submitted its EITI validation report     Completed. The validation report was submitted in
for 2006 and 2007 to the International Secretariat of EITI    October 2010. Since it was not considered fully
and reconfirmed its commitment to early compliance            satisfactory, the authorities have been asked to prepare
with the conditions required for full membership of EITI.     a second report for more recent years, which is
                                                              expected to be completed later in 2013. The president
                                                              has sent a letter to the International Secretariat of EITI
                                                              confirming his commitment to achieving full
                                                              compliance with EITI.


2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

19.     Adequacy of government’s commitment. The program was implemented in a
particularly challenging context: the country had just experienced a short war with massive
looting after a postelection crisis, which had been preceded by almost 10 years of social
and political crisis. The new authorities were confronted by serious challenges over the
short term, such that Bank support was urgently needed. In this regard, a team on the
government side was quickly set up to engage in discussions with the Bank team to
develop a strategic approach to handle the operation within a very short deadline. The
authorities were closely monitoring the preparation of the operation, and the line ministries
concerned with the prior actions committed their teams to ensure these actions be
completed as requested. In addition, the previous Minister of Finance was reappointed in
the new government. The cabinet was effective in putting all teams to work through an
interministerial Economic Committee, drawing lessons from the institutional arrangement
that prevailed for the previous EGRGs. The Ministry of Finance also committed, on behalf
of the government, to reforms under the program and the prior actions as well as the
                                                          6
outcomes of the program. Moreover, the government committed, in its Letter of
Development Policy, to implementing fiscal measures and pursuing the set of reforms
covered in the operation.

20.     Soundness of background analysis. Background analysis underpinning the design
of the PCRRG appears to have been accurate, relevant, and comprehensive. The design of
the PCRRG relied on extensive core diagnostic assessments by the World Bank and other
donors in collaboration with the government. In particular, the team used analytical Bank
reports that were recent or ongoing at that time, and held close policy dialogue on the key
sectors covered by the operation. These included a study of cocoa taxation in 2002;
analytical papers prepared in 2004 documenting long-term growth performance and
competitiveness; a 2006 analysis of poverty including the impact of cocoa taxation,
experience from a series of LICUS grants in 2006–8 in support of the social dimensions of
the peace process; and a completed postconflict social assessment. A 2006 European
Commission report on optimal taxation in the cocoa sector has also been a useful input.

                   Box 1. Summary of the Findings of the Analysis of the Cocoa Sector Taxation

      McIntire and Varangisa find that price and marketing policies in Côte d’Ivoire have reduced farmers’
      average incomes. In addition, these price and marketing policies did not compensate farmers adequately
      in terms of lower price risk. In other words, the government has stabilized farm revenues from cocoa
      only at a high cost to average income, which led to a closer review of the previous stabilization and
      taxation mechanism in the cocoa sector. Burgerb concludes that Côte d'Ivoire would only marginally
      benefit from changes in the export taxation, and that it may even suffer in the longer-term from imposing
      high tax rates. The European Union (EU)c and Burger agree that taxation affects farmers substantially,
      and their welfare is severely affected by the high levels of taxation, even if the tax rate can vary without
      affecting significantly the aggregate income. Moreover, the EU indicates that the tax level has an impact
      on the distribution of revenues between stakeholders in the sectors, and also on farmers’ income.
      McIntire and Varangis also concur with EU on the conclusion that reducing export taxes would have a
      small negative effect on aggregate income, but it would improve income distribution for poorer rural
      areas. Moreover, McIntire and Varangis conclude that lowering the cocoa export tax would improve the
      national income distribution, although this improvement depends on the weight assigned to different
      household incomes. As rural poverty is more severe than urban, weighted incomes at lower export tax
      rates would most likely improve welfare.

      a. J. McIntire and P. Varangis, “Reforming Côte d’Ivoire’s Cocoa Marketing and Pricing System,? World Bank Policy Research
      Working Paper, No. 2081, March 1999.
      b. Kees Burger, "Optimal Export Taxes—the Case of Cocoa in Côte d'Ivoire," 107th Seminar, January 30–February 1, 2008, Sevilla,
      Spain, 6395, European Association of Agricultural Economists.
      c. European Union, “Etude des Prélèvements sur la Filière Café et Cacao en Côte d’Ivoire,? Contrat Cadre MS/451—LOT N° 11 N°
      Nagel-3/2003-ACP-DCE en Côte d’Ivoire (Amsterdam: The Netherlands, 2005).



21.     A study financed under the International Development Association (IDA)-
funded Governance and Institutional Development Grant supported the cocoa reform
agenda by providing specific analysis on the degree of competition in the cocoa sector
and proposing concrete measures to improve the bargaining power of producers. The
2009 Financial Sector Assessment Program made an important contribution to the debate
on poverty reduction by highlighting the crisis in the microfinance sector and proposing a
set of reforms, as well as by offering recommendations to improve financing for rural and
small and medium enterprises. The conclusions of the 2008 PEMFAR were used to
support policy actions on PFM. The outcomes of the Bank analysis and dialogue with the
authorities in the energy, cocoa, and financial sectors were also useful in structuring the
basis for the proposed grant. The country’s macroeconomic performance and planned
policies were analyzed in the context of joint missions of the Bank and the IMF and the
joint preparation of the “Enhanced HIPC Initiative Decision Point Document.?
                                             7
22.     The sustainability and political economy of the reforms have been areas of
interest during the preparation of the operation. Since the PCRRG was prepared during
a time of dire financial conditions in Côte d’Ivoire, there could have been the impression
that the reforms were carried out only because the government had no other choice to
receive urgently needed financial support. However, the consensus among stakeholders in
the sectors covered by the operation supported the proposed reforms as critically necessary
for the country’s economic recovery and thus favored their full ownership by government.
Thus, a strong constituency in favor of these reforms prevailed among stakeholders. In
addition, the state’s concern to improve the social well-being of its citizens, particularly for
the poor and the most vulnerable, informed decisions in the reform of the cocoa sector,
increased health and education spending, and the necessary improvement in the
microfinance sector. Specifically, adopting a tax cap on cocoa exports, increasing farm
gate prices, introducing a forward sales mechanism, and creating a new institutional
framework with higher accountability mechanisms in the cocoa sector are examples of
areas in which the political economy has been swayed to make improvements in
governance more sustainable.

23.    Assessment of the operation’s design. The PCRRG was designed as a stand-alone
operation focused on governance in PFM and key economic sectors. It was not complex
and was set in a realistic manner, in regards to the prior actions as well as to the limited
number of outcomes. The Ministry of Economy and Finance had full responsibility for the
PFM reforms, simplifying this component. The Interministerial Committee set up in the
same size and composition as the one that ensured the M&E of previous EGRG 1, 2, and 3
was the only single contact with government on the remaining components. Overall, the
operation’s design was satisfactory.

24.     Risk analysis. Four broad risks were identified: political and security risks,
fiduciary risks, macroeconomic risks, and governance and commitment to reform risks.
The political and security risks were considered beyond the direct scope of this operation.
However, the PCRRG was intended to help reduce the fiduciary risk through the
improvement of transparency in public procurement, and good governance in the selected
key sectors was expected to help reassure the national community on the equitable use of
the resources. In addition, IDA financial support was expected to be used to clear some
domestic arrears, providing a window to stimulate private sector growth after the conflict
and supporting employment needed to secure peace. The focus of the PCRRG on the
improvement of fiduciary standards, along with continued attention of IDA and other
donors on PFM and budget execution process over time was expected to mitigate the
fiduciary risks. The operation was delivered at a time when the new government was
committed to achieving the requirements for the HIPC Completion Point. This provided
some leverage to address, in particular, the major weaknesses in the cocoa sector.
Moreover, the stability of the team in the Ministry of Finance, the commitment of the new
government to start the new Extended Credit Facility (ECF) agreement with the IMF and
to reach the HIPC Completion Point, and the recent track record of Côte d’Ivoire in
macroeconomic management, with the IMF and IDA closely monitoring government
macroeconomic performance, helped mitigate macroeconomic and external risks. The
governance and commitment to reform risks were addressed through the support provided
under the IDA’s Governance Development and Institutional Grant that supported public
information and demand for good governance and transparency reform.
                                             8
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation, and Utilization

25.     Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) design. The design of the M&E system
reflected the team’s decision to support government ownership of the reform program to
achieve a rapid economic recovery. The preparation of the PCRRG was coordinated, on
the government's side, by a newly created Technical Committee for Budget Support, with
active participation from line ministry representatives. The Ministry of Economy and
Finance was responsible for the overall implementation of the program supported by this
PCRRG, in close association with the ministries in charge of education, health, and energy.
Within the Bank, the PCRRG was designed, developed, and monitored by a team that was
almost entirely field based. The Bank team maintained frequent contact with the technical
committee and other counterparts in the government. Performance indicators as well as
means of verification were selected with and agreed upon by the technical committee.

26.     M&E implementation and utilization. The M&E of outcomes was carried out by
the task team within the M&E framework that prevailed for the previous Development
Policy Operation (DPO) series. The unit within the Ministry of Finance in charge of
monitoring the country’s Economic and Financial Program ensured the daily monitoring of
the program components. This unit regularly provided the necessary information to the
Technical Committee for Budget Support, enabling it to inform the Bank team on the
progress achieved through quarterly budget execution reports and specific reports on the
other measures. However, there has been some tendency for line ministries and agencies
participating in budget support operations to focus on the realization of prior actions, while
not paying sufficient attention to subsequent results on the ground. Monitoring was
conducted on a regular basis and an Implementation Status and Results report (ISR) was
issued in May 2012.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any)

27.     Preparation of the first Poverty Reduction and Support Grant (PRSG) for the
Republic of Côte d’Ivoire is ongoing. This operation is the first of a new series of three
PRSGs. The proposed operation supports the government’s efforts to improve economic
governance by strengthening its accountability system and the efficiency and effectiveness
of public expenditure and promote growth through energy and agriculture sector reforms
and private sector development. Policies and reforms supported by this new operation
build on the achievements of the previous EGRG series and the PRCGG while shifting the
focus to support the government’s priorities, including to difficult reforms in the
governance and energy sector. The new PRSG series follows up on Côte d’Ivoire’s
conformity with the EITI criteria (one of the outcomes targeted under PCRRG that was not
achieved) to ensure the achievement of this outcome in the next two years. Strengthening
governance in the cocoa sector is also a key component of the PRSG series. In particular,
special attention is being paid to the credibility of the forward sales system by conducting
an independent audit. The PRSG series does not cover the microfinance sector or issues
related to increasing the budget share of health and education spending. However, the
Bank’s work on the Financial Sector Development Plan includes a component on the
strengthening of the microfinance sector. Other ongoing work on PEMFAR and public
expenditure review in education may help ensure not only an increase of resource
allocation to these two sectors, but also an improvement in the effectiveness of associated
                                               9
public expenditures. Thus, these other ongoing and planned operations may help ensure
continued progress in areas where targeted results were not reached under the PCRRG.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

       Relevance of objectives

28.    The objectives of the operation are consistent with those in the Letter of
Development Policy and the country’s poverty reduction strategy. These objectives also
were in line with the Emergency Presidential Program adopted to address the humanitarian
and social needs after the crisis as well as the necessity to rebuild administration capacity.

29.     The PCRRG was presented to the board in September 2012, along with the
Emergency Youth Employment and Skills Development Project. The PCRRG was
designed under the first pillar of the Bank Country Partnership Strategy (CPS):
strengthening economic governance. The PCRRG aimed to help deepen the reforms begun
under the previous EGRGs, reforms that are part of the Bank CPS, and to effectively
support the country’s economic and social recovery. The PCRRG was aligned with the
Bank’s five Good Practice Principles on Conditionality.

30.     This operation was aligned with several IDA-financed operations and advisory
services in the areas of its focus. The Governance and Institutional Development Technical
Assistance Grant supported efforts to strengthen government’s capacity to: (i) enhance
efficiency and transparency in the use of public resources; (ii) manage the development of
its hydrocarbon resources in an environmentally and socially sound and sustainable
manner; and (iii) foster governance and efficiency in the cocoa sector. This grant provided
financial and technical support for the cocoa audits and the EITI report preparation. The
operation was also complementary to an IDA-supported Post-Conflict Assistance Project
(PCAP) that provided support for the redeployment of the administration in the previous
center-north-west areas of the country (US$120 million). The PCAP was restructured to
respond to the new needs facing the country with the demobilization and reinsertion of
excombatants. The Urgent Electricity Rehabilitation Project (US$50 million, approved in
June 2009) supported improvement of the sector’s operational efficiency, while the SME
Revitalization and Governance Project (US$15 million, approved in October 2009)
supported private sector development.

31.    The PCRRG was fully aligned with the new government’s reform agenda, and the
interministerial committee in charge of leading this program was strongly linked to the
Ministry of Finance, with effective working links with line ministries (for example, the
Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Mines and Energy) as well as with the EITI
National Committee and the office of the General Auditor.

       Relevance of design

32.    Program design was simple and appropriately tailored to the circumstances facing
Côte d’Ivoire, namely an emergency response from the donors to support the process to

                                             10
 exit the crisis, following the 2011 WDR’s recommendations for postconflict countries.
 Hence, the need for a stand-alone operation focused on core priorities, with objectives
 closely tied to prior actions in each area.

 33.     The components of this operation were discussed widely with the government’s
 other development partners. IMF and IDA staffs also work closely on HIPC debt relief
 issues. The previous IMF ECF-supported program was also closely aligned with the EGRG
 III, with nonoverlapping, complementary performance criteria and benchmarks. The
 operation also coordinated closely with the AfDB and the European Union, including in
 their main areas of focus—PFM and governance. Nonetheless, accountability for actions in
 the PCRRG program remained entirely with the government.

 34.     The accountability framework was kept simple to reflect the country’s
 circumstances in 2011. The operation built upon the emergency challenges the country was
 facing at the moment. With the various analytic studies available, the program chose
 components concentrated on the key elements of the government emergency program, as
 stated clearly in its Letter of Development Policy.

 35.     The program was parsimonious, with a set of only seven prior actions in only four
 areas. The prior actions were closely tied to the indicators in the results framework and the
 government’s strategy as articulated in its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).

 36.    The PCRRG was structured along the lines of the five Good Practice Principles on
 Conditionality, which was instrumental to the operation’s progress, despite the prevailing
 risks.

          Relevance of implementation

 37.     Reviews were regular, including an ISR completed in May 2012. The stand-alone
 design had enabled reliable and quick financial support, particularly when the country was
 in dire need of financial resources to tackle emergencies resulting from the postelection
 crisis.

 3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

              Table 2. Anticipated Results and Actual Outcomes of the PCRRG
            Anticipated result                                        Actual outcome
Component 1: Improve governance, transparency, and efficiency in public expenditure management
1. Share of education and health in budget 1. Education and health spending stood at 25.1 percent of
increases to 29 percent (2012).            budget at end-2012, despite the increase in spending by 18
                                           percent from 2011 to 2012. Moderately Unsatisfactory.

2. The draft budget execution law for 2009 is   2. The SAI delivered the certification of conformity for the
published, along with the corresponding         draft budget execution law for 2009 and its related report. In
report and declaration of the Chamber of        August 2012, the National Assembly discussed not only the
Accounts, and these have been discussed in      draft budget execution law for 2009, but also the ones of from
the National Assembly and in the media          2004 to 2010. This set the stage for the return to the
(October 2012).                                 normalization process of the budget cycle. The press ensured a
                                                wide diffusion of the information to the public. All the voted
                                                budget laws were published on the Chambre des Comptes web
                                                site (August 2012). Highly Satisfactory.
                                                     11
             Anticipated result                                           Actual outcome

                                           3. The hotline of the National Public Procurement Authority
3. All written complaints and calls received
                                           (ANRMP) effectively registers calls received. The written
on the hot line are registered and investigated,
and the results are published in the weeklycomplaints are received officially. ANRMP publishes the
procurement bulletin (December 2012).      results of its investigations in the weekly procurement bulletin
                                           (effective since February 2012). Satisfactory.
Component 2: Improve governance and efficiency in key sectors
2a: Cocoa sector

4. A new strategy approved limiting total          4. The government adopted a new coffee-cocoa sector strategy
taxation on cocoa to no more than 22 percent       in November 2011. In this strategy, the total taxation on cocoa
of the CIF price.                                  is limited to 22 percent of the CIF price. This decision has been
                                                   officially and widely disseminated. Satisfactory.

5. A new institutional structure for the cocoa     5. The new institutional structure, the Cocoa-Coffee Council
sector put in place reflecting the                 (CCC), was set up on December 28, 2011, by Presidential
recommendations of the audits, including a         Ordinance 2011-481. The CCC has been assigned as the
process of annual audits, and there has been       unique management institution within the coffee-cocoa sector,
media discussion of the audits (September          following the recommendation of the audit on the previous
2012).                                             institutional framework. This audit has been widely published
                                                   in the local newspapers. Satisfactory.
2b: Microfinance
6. UNACOOPEC losses reduced by at least            6. UNACOOPEC’s annual losses were reduced to CFAF 2.2
80 percent (end-2011).                             billion at end-2010, down from CFAF 5.8 billion at end-2009.
                                                   At end-2011, with the shocks resulting from the postelection
                                                   crisis, UNACOOPEC registered annual losses of 11.03 billion.
                                                   Unsatisfactory.

2c: Energy sector
7. Côte d’Ivoire certified as conforming to        The National EITI Steering Committee unveiled the final EITI
EITI criteria (mid-2012).                          reports for 2008, 2009, and 2010 on May 10, 2012. The 2011
                                                   report that must be published and its process validated for the
                                                   certification is not ready yet. Thus, Côte d’Ivoire is not
                                                   certified as conforming to EITI criteria. Unsatisfactory.


 38.     The program supported progress in some areas. Comparison of realized results
 versus planned results indicates effective achievement in some of the sectors covered under
 this operation.

      a) Resources allocated to the health and education sectors increased by 18 percent
         from 2011 to 2012. However, the authorities were not able to reach the target set in
         the program; health and education spending stood at 25.1 percent of budget in 2012.

      b) The Ministry of Finance, particularly the General Directorate of Budget and
         Finances, worked closely with the Audit Office, which resulted in the
         normalization of the budget cycle. Also, normalization of the situation from 2004
         to 2010 was achieved, as the General Directorate of Budget and Finances sent to
         the Audit Office the budget execution laws of FY 2004 to FY2010. The Audit
         Office issued the declarations of conformity for these budget execution laws.
         Afterward, the National Assembly discussed and approved these budget review
         laws and published them on the Audit Office Web site.


                                                        12
c) On the public procurement side, the National Public Procurement Authority
   implemented a hotline to receive complaints. The calls received are registered and
   investigated and results published weekly in the procurement bulletin. A yearly
   statement of complaints is provided in the annual report of the procurement
   regulatory authority. Progress is expected on the delay to handle one complaint.

d) The authorities adopted a new cocoa sector strategy in November 2011. In this
   strategy, the new government confirmed the 22 percent ad valorem tax on the CIF
   price of cocoa applied since the 2010/11 crop season. In addition, the strategy
   stated the way forward for future cocoa campaigns, through: (i) a forward selling
   price mechanism; and (ii) the payment of at least 60 percent of the international
   cocoa price to the farmers. The reduction in taxation and conversion to ad valorem
   rates, based on World Bank and EU studies, ensured that the burden of any fall in
   world prices would be more equitably shared between government and producers.
   Another component of the strategy was related to the institutional reform of the
   cocoa sector. The government adopted Ordonnance No. 2011-481 (December 28,
   2011), which became the new legal and institutional framework for the sector. This
   created a single institution, the CCC, which is in charge of the overall management
   and regulation of the cocoa sector, replacing the previous four cocoa sector
   management entities (FRC, BCC, ARCC, and FDPCC). The CCC was established
   based on the recommendations of the audits of the previous four institutions. The
   serious governance weaknesses that previously prevailed in the sector called for the
   adoption of enhanced accountability mechanisms, including mandatory reporting
   and annual audits of the functioning and activities of the CCC. The authorities
   started to implement the strategy in early December 2011, with the approval in
   December 2011 of operational procedures for the CCC for domestic marketing
   (including the agreed cost structure governing the pricing mechanism for farmers)
   and for export sales; the initiation of forward sales of cocoa exports from January
   2012, with all exporters participating since February 24, 2012; and the adoption by
   the CCC’s board on April 27, 2012, of the new manual of administrative and
   financial procedures and of the 2012 budget for the council.

e) With the restructuring plan implemented by the authorities, the main microfinance
   institution, UNACOOPEC, has been able to improve its financial situation. Annual
   losses were reduced from CFAF 5.8 billion at end-2009 to CFAF 2.2 billion at end
   2010. However, during the year 2011, UNACOOPEC registered CFAF 11.03
   billion in losses following the massive postelection pillaging of its branches
   countrywide.

f) The National EITI Committee issued the 2006 and 2007 reports on payments made
   to the government by the extractive industries and revenue received by the
   government from those same industries—mining, petroleum, and gas. Reports for
   2008, 2009 and 2010, including the mining sector, were adopted by the Steering
   Committee on May 10, 2012, and have been published. However, the country was
   not able to be certified as conforming to EITI criteria, because the 2011 report was
   not available. The 2011 report is under review and should be unveiled by mid-April
   2013.


                                        13
3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

39.     Relevance. The operation was crucial for the country because it provided quick
financial support for the emergencies of the immediate postconflict period. It was
successful because it provided vital financial support and helped lay the foundation to re-
launch reforms in the most important sectors. This operation also helped pave the way
toward the satisfaction of some triggers of the HIPC Completion Point. The 2010–11
postelection conflict ended with massive looting and pillaging of the administration and
many private companies. The authorities began a massive re-equipment and rapid
redeployment of the administration to ensure that public services were returned to
normalcy. In addition, the government’s ambition to reach the completion point in the
following year required its full engagement in completing the operation. As a result, all
prior actions were taken and none have been reversed.

40.     Achievement of PDOs. Performance on the outcome indicator fell well short of the
target for health and education spending, despite its increase by 18 percent from 2011 to
2012. The EITI process was negatively affected because the National Steering Committee
lacked funding to ensure the timely production of the 2011 report to allow assessment of
Côte d’Ivoire’s status by the EITI International Secretariat. However, the EITI National
Committee kept the momentum, and its work program plans the delivery of the report on
the 2011 data by mid-April of 2013. After an improvement in 2010, when financial losses
declined from 5.8 billion losses in 2009 to CFA F 2.2 billion, the UNACOOPEC situation
worsened at end-2011, following the massive looting that network branches suffered. The
postelection crisis resulted in financial and material damages that seriously affected
network activities, including credit to customers. UNACOOPEC registered CFAF 11.03
billion losses. Nonetheless, the adjustment measures the authorities implemented translated
into a recovery in 2012; the preliminary financial situation showed, at end-November 2012,
a loss of CFAF 1.04 billion. The government launched a financial and organizational audit
that may provide a basis for an enhanced restructuring of this MFI network. The budget
execution cycle was normalized after eight years of nonconformity to the legal budgetary
rules. The National Assembly voted on the budget execution bills for years 2004 to 2010,
after the Chambre des Comptes produced the certificates of conformity and the
examination reports of the related draft bills.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts (if any, where not previously
    covered, or to amplify discussion above)

Poverty impacts, gender aspects, and social development

41.     The operation helped address social needs that were important after the crisis by
supporting additional spending for displaced populations as well as emergency needs in
health and education. In addition, it provided financing that allowed the Treasury to
support the reequipment and redeployment of the administration. The private companies
that suffered from the looting and pillaging were offered some periodic tax exemptions.
Government was able to provide fiscal stimuli in ways that ensured firms could keep their
workforce, while supporting its efforts to ensure economic recovery. The financing
provided under this operation helped clear some domestic arrears, and was also partly
                                            14
directed to pro-poor spending, reflecting government commitment during the design of the
operation. This pro-poor spending aimed to address health and education needs for
displaced persons and those affected during the crisis. Improved governance and
transparency in the cocoa sector were expected to have direct impacts on rural households’
welfare through the increase of the cocoa farm gate price. Indeed, the strategy the
government unveiled in November 2011 confirmed the tax cap on cocoa at 22 percent of
the CIF price, and the farm gate price to a minimum of 60 percent of the CIF price. The
CCC, the unique management entity in the new institutional framework, is responsible for
ensuring that the price mechanism for farmers and the price cap are effective, so that the
revenues transferred to the farmers can have impact. The reporting procedures and the
overall accountability framework that govern CCC operations will ensure strengthened
governance in this sector.

Institutional change/strengthening

42.     The PCRRG has contributed effectively to improvement in budget implementation.
The Office of the General Auditor and the Ministry of Finance jointly worked to ensure a
return to the budget orthodoxy through (a) catching up on the long delays in the vote by the
National Assembly of the budget execution laws and (b) the respect of the legal deadline
for the external audit of budget execution, from the 2010 draft budget law, and certification
of conformity. PCRRG supported the necessary institutional changes, particularly in the
cocoa and financial sectors (specifically microfinance).

Other unintended outcomes and impacts (positive or negative)

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

4.1 Rating: Moderate

43.    The reforms achieved under the PCRRG are likely to be sustained over the
medium term as the country is experiencing a significant economic rebound. However,
these gains are threatened by political and security risks as well as the still prevailing
governance risks.

   a) Many challenges remain in the areas of reconciliation and a sustainable peace
      process. Despite some action from the Dialogue-Truth and Reconciliation
      Commission to strengthen the reconciliation process, continued fighting in the
      western part of the country poses a threat to the peace process. The Disarmament-
      Demobilization-Reinsertion (DDR) of excombatants is still ongoing, including
      efforts to reinsert some of them. The government has engaged in discussions with
      the main opposition party, namely the previous ruling party, which did not
      participate in the past legislative elections or the incoming local elections. In
      addition, political tensions remain because former President Gbagbo has been
      indicted at the International Criminal Court in The Hague, and some of his
      supporters have been jailed in Côte d’Ivoire, while some, living abroad, have had
      international warrants issued for their arrests.

                                             15
   b) The security sector reform currently ongoing with the support of European Union
      and UN operation in Côte d’Ivoire, and the support of IDA to the DDR process
      through the PCAP, will help mitigate the security risks.

   c) The economic recovery was quicker than anticipated after the postelection crisis.
      The economic contraction in 2011 (real GDP declined by 4.7 percent) was reversed
      in 2012 with a strong rebound (real GDP growth rate stood at +9.8 percent).
      Moreover, the macroeconomic outlook in the medium term is favorable. Thus,
      macroeconomic management is expected to be sound, with close monitoring by the
      IMF and IDA. This should strengthen the basis for sustainability over the medium
      term for the operation’s development outcomes.

   d) The cocoa sector reform is expected to be strengthened over the medium term with
      effective transparency and better governance, which should ensure that operation
      outcomes in this sector are sustained and enhanced in the future. Other reforms are
      on track and the National Development Plan 2012–15 provides the basis for
      enhanced reforms to sustain the operation’s development outcomes.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

Bank performance in ensuring Quality at Entry: Rating—Satisfactory

44.     Sector specialists informed the operation through a clear identification of issues in
their respective sectors to be addressed to support the country’s rapid economic recovery.
Project identification and appraisal were facilitated by the existence of solid analytical
ground work (for example, the 2008 PEMFAR, studies on cocoa taxation impacts,
postconflict social assessment, energy and a Financial Sector Assessment Program for the
banking and microfinance sectors). The Bank team worked closely with the new
Interministerial Economic Committee and coordinated preparation and appraisal of the
operation with the IMF, namely on the macroeconomic framework. The team conversed
with the new government on PFM and governance in the cocoa and microfinance sectors,
as well as on transparency in the energy sector. The program document was clear in its
arguments and the results framework was closely aligned with the prior actions.

Quality of Supervision: Rating—Satisfactory

45.    Regular technical follow-up by country office staff and sector specialists provided
consistency and continuity in Bank supervision. An ISR was completed in May 2012.

Overall Bank performance: Rating—Satisfactory

46.    Because Bank performance for Quality at Entry was rated Satisfactory and Quality
of Supervision also rated as Satisfactory, overall Bank performance was rated Satisfactory
in accordance with the harmonized evaluation criteria guidelines for ICRs.




                                             16
5.2 Borrower Performance

Government performance (see Overall Borrower Performance)

Implementing agency or agencies performance (see Overall Borrower Performance)

Justification of rating for overall borrower performance (see Overall Borrower
Performance)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

47.      Government commitment and ownership of reform were adequate despite the
difficult political situation that prevailed after the postelection crisis. The new government
came to power after a violent war. The damaging effects on the economy and the
population and the emergency humanitarian situation were immediate challenges for the
new government. Côte d’Ivoire urgently needed financial resources to help rebuild the
economy, get the administration back to normal with enhanced capacity, and provide basic
services to the most affected people. In this fragile post-conflict situation, the government
was committed; it implemented all the prior actions and followed through on the expected
results. The government’s ownership translated into a consensus within the Interministerial
Economic Committee such that the implementing agencies in the line ministries and the
Office of the General Auditor continued efforts to achieve the planned outcomes amid
difficult circumstances, particularly with lower administration capacity. Targets were not
achieved for: (i) the share of health and education spending in the budget; (ii) the country’s
compliance with the EITI criteria; and (iii) the level of UNACOOPEC’s losses. The latter
target was seriously hindered by the massive looting of its branches. However, the
momentum in these three areas has put the country on a sustainable track to reverse the
trend in the short term.

6. Lessons Learned

The PCRRG experience provides a number of lessons for the design and implementation
of development policy operations in a postconflict context.

48.      First, a country emerging from a prolonged and severe crisis can still achieve
significant progress as long as its government demonstrates ownership and commitment to
reform. In this situation, the Bank’s response must be quick and focused on a well-defined
set of reforms that can be achieved in key priority areas in the short term.

49.     Second, rapid Bank support to a country in a postconflict period can be effective in
supporting the return to stability. Moreover, this support can enhance economic recovery if
the policy dialogue with the government is structured around the necessary reforms that are
under an effective country ownership.

50.     Third, the effectiveness of a Bank development policy operation can be enhanced
by its complementarities with other Bank-financed operations and the efforts of other
active donors in the reform areas. PCRRG design and implementation reflected this lesson
in the choice of prior actions, which were closely coordinated with policy reforms
supported by other donors, and through the Bank’s lending and nonlending operations.
                                            17
51.     Fourth, when operations are prepared under difficult situations of institutional
and/or political fragility, it may be important to limit the number and ambition of
intermediate outcomes indicators. This recommendation draws on this operation’s success
in reaching the ambitious targets set for the main microfinance network, budget shares for
education and health, and on achieving conformity with the EITI.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

7.1 Borrower/Implementing Agencies

52.     On behalf of the government, the Ministry of Economy and Finance has provided
written comments (annex 4) to indicate their agreement with the overall assessment of the
ICR regarding achievement of some of the development objectives and the ongoing
progress on the objectives for which the outcomes were not achieved. The government
acknowledged the right timing of this operation and underscored its effectiveness at a time
when the country was facing major challenges resulted from the postelection crisis. The
government expressed its satisfaction with and commended the quality of the collaboration
between the Bank and government officials.

7.2 Cofinanciers

N/A

7.3 Other Partners and Stakeholders (for example, nongovernmental organizations/
private sector/civil society)

N/A




                                            18
    Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

   Task Team Members
                  Names                              Title                     Unit
    Lending
   Madani Tall                       Country Director                        AFCF2
   Miria Pigato                      Sector manager                          AFTP4
   Philip English                    Lead Economist                          AFTP4
   Jean-Noel Amantchi Gogoua         Senior Economist                        AFTP4
   Sunil Mathrani                    Senior Power Specialist                 AFTEG
   Issa Diaw                         Senior Power Specialist                 AFTEG
   Stephen Mink                      Lead Economist                          AFTS4
   Yao Haccandy                      Agricultural Specialist                 AFTS4
   Jean-Paul Chausse                 Consultant
   Djibrilla Adamou Issa             Senior Financial Sector Specialist      AFTFP
   Ann Rennie                        Consultant76                            AFTFP
   Mourad Belguedj                   Consultant                              COPCO
                                     Senior Financial Management
   Saidou Diop
                                     Specialist
   Raj Soopramanien                  Lead Counsel                            LEGAF
   Salwa Mohamed Saleh               Counsel                                 LEGAF
   Maurice Adoni                     Senior Procurement Specialist           AFTPC
   Africa Eshogba Olojoba            Senior Environmental Specialist         AFTS3
   Judite Fernandes                  Language Program Assistant              AFTP4
   Kignopron Coulibaly               Program Assistant                       AFCF2


   Supervision/ICR
   Madani Tall                       Country Director            AFCF2
   Miria Pigato                      Sector Manager              AFTP4
                                     Lead Economist and
   Volker Treichel                                               AFTP4
                                     Sector Leader
                                                                          ICR Primary
   Jean-Noel Amantchi Gogoua         Senior Economist            AFTP4
                                                                          Author

   Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)
                                          Staff time and cost (Bank budget only)
             Stage                                              US$ thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                            Total:                                           0.00
Supervision/ICR
                            Total:                                         160.00




                                           19
      Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)


N/A




                          20
      Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

N/A




                                 21
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




     MINISTERE AUPRES DU PREMIER
                                                                REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
                                                                                                  -
    MINISTRE CHARGE DE L'ECONOMIE
            ET DES FINANCES
                                                                     Union- Discipline- Travail
                LE MINISTRE



       II ·&1 6 0 J -" iii                                 Abidjan, le   19 AVR. 2013
   NIREF :                  IMPMEF/CAB 01-27



                                                       A
                                                       Monsieur le Directeur des
                                                       Operations de Ia Banque Mondlale
                                                       en Cote d'lvoire
                                                       ABIDJAN
  Objet : Observations sur le Rapport d'lwaluation
           de !'Operation d'appui budgetaire « Don
           de Reconstruction et de Relance Post-
           crise »



   Monsieur le Directeur des Operations,

   Vous avez bien voulu soumettre a man examen le rapport d'lwaluation de !'operation
   d'appui budgetaire « Don de reconstruction et de relance Post-crise », approuve par le
   Conseil d'Administration de Ia Banque Mondiale, pour soutenir Ia Cote d'lvoire, apres Ia
   crise post-electorale.
   En retour, je voudrais vous remercier pour les efforts constants consentis par votre
   institution en faveur de Ia COte d'lvoire, notamment le decaissement de l'appui budgetaire
   2012 d'un montant de 150 millions de dollars US, au titre de ce Don.
   Aussi, voudrais-je vous faire connaitre que, de maniere generale, le rapport relatif a
   !'evaluation du « Don de reconstruction et de relance Post-crise » reste conforme dans
   !'esprit, au cadre qui a prevalu a Ia conclusion de ce don, ainsi qu'aux resultats obtenus
   relativement audit Don.
   Toutefois, quelques observations de fond et de forme ont ete formulees au terme de
   Ia relecture du rapport par mes services. Vous trouverez ci-joint le tableau
   recapitulatif de !'ensemble de ces observations
   Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le Directeur des Operations, !'expression de ma
   consideration distinguee.




       Observations sur 19 rapport d'lvaluation




                                                  22
23
                              Unofficial English Translation



MINISTRY TO THE PRIME MINISTER OFFICE
MINISTER IN CHARGE OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE

                                                             TO

                                                             World Bank Country Director
                                                             Côte d’Ivoire
                                                             Abidjan

                                                             Abidjan, 19 April 2013


Dear Country Director:


             Comments on the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the
                  Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Recovery Grant

You have kindly submitted to my attention the Implementation Completion Report of the
budget support operation named “Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Recovery Grant,? the
Board of Executive Directors of the World Bank had approved to support Côte d’Ivoire
after the postelection crisis.

In return, I would like to thank you for the continued effort and support from your
institution in favor of Côte d'Ivoire, especially for the disbursement of the aforementioned
budget support which amounted to US$150 million.

Thus, I would like you to know that, in general, the Implementation Completion Report of
the “Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Recovery Grant? is in line with the framework that
has prevailed at the conclusion of this grant, as well as to the results obtained with respect
to this operation.

However, our services made some observations and substantive comments to the report.
May you please find attached the summary table of all of these observations.

Sincerely,
 
Signed

Abdouramane Cisse
Chief of Staff
Ministry to the Prime Minister Office
Ministry in Charge of Economy and Finance


                                             24
            OBSERVATIONS OF THE ECONOMY AND ECONOMIC FORECAST
                 DIRECTORATE ON THE WORLD BANK DOCUMENT



 Reference                 Observations                      Old formulation        New formulation


Page1, §2      Date of transfer of the former                                    November 29, 2011
               president to CPI

Page2, §6      Growth rate of GDP expected in 2012       9 percent real GDP      8.1 percent real GDP
               at the adoption of the Extended Credit                            estimated vs. 9.8%
               Facility was 8.1%                                                 achieved

Page2,§6       Inflation over the period 2011–14         CPI inflation was       CPI inflation was
                                                         expected to remain at   expected to remain at
                                                         2.5–3.0                 2.0–3.0

Page7,§15,     Error on value (billion instead of        5.8 million             5.8 billion
puce (e)       million)

Page7,§15,     Error on the year 2011                    20011                   2011
puce (f)

Page10,§22     Error on the abbreviation PCRRG           PRCGG                   PCRRG




                                                        25
      Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                     26
                      Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents



World Bank Documents


  -   Program Document, “Côte d’Ivoire: Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Recovery
      Grant,? Report No. 62527-CI

  -   ISR (Implementation Status and Results Report)

  -   Agreed Minutes of Negotiations

  -   Letter of Development Policy

  -   Financing Agreement




                                         27
                                    8ºW                To               7ºW                                    6ºW                                 5ºW                             4ºW                              3ºW
                                                     Bamako                                                                 To
                                                                 M ALI
                                                                                     Tengrel
                                                                                                                          Sikasso
                                                                                                                                                                           BURKINA                                                                   CÔT E D'IV OIRE
                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                    Bobo Dioulasso          FA SO
                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kampti                                                         CITIES AND TOWNS
             10ºN                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10ºN




                                                                                                      é
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REGION CAPITALS




                                                                                                   Bag o
                                               DENGUÉLÉ                                                                                                                                                                   To                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                      SAVANES                                                                                            Batie
                                                                                                Boundiali                                        Ferkessedougou                                                                                                      RIVERS
                                      Odienné
                                      Odienne                                                                        Korhogo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MAIN ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                               Kom
                            To                                                                                                                                                                                 Bouna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RAILROADS




                                                                                                              Bo u




                                                                                                                                                                                                  o
                           Beyla                                                                                                                                                                                                      To




                                                                                                                                                                                                é
                                                                                                                                         c
                                                                                                                                       a Blan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bole
             9ºN                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9ºN                   REGION BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                          m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                     Banda
              G U IN E A
                                                                 Sass




                                                                                                                                                        Nzi
                                                                                 WORODOUGOU                                                                    Dabakala                               ZANZAN
                                                                      andr




                                                                                                  Mara
                                                                          a




                                      Touba      BAFING
                                                                                                                                                VALLÉE DU BANDAMA
                                                                                                      o ué



                                                                              Séguéla
                                                                              Ségu
                                                                                guééla                                                             Katiola
             8ºN                                                                                             Mankono                                                                                           Bondoukou                       8ºN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                      To                                                                                                                                                                                                             Wenchi
                   Nzerekore                                                                                                                                                                              Tanda
                                                     Biankouma                                                                 Béoumi                Bouaké
                                      DIX-HUIT                                                                  Lac de
                          Mont Nimba MONTAGNES                                                                  Kossou         Sakassou                                    M'Bahiakro
                          (1,752 m)                                                Vavoua          Zuenoula
                                                      Man                                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                      N’ZI-COMOÉ
                                   Danane                                       HAUT-                                                                                                                                      Sunyani
                                                                                           bo




                                                                                                                                Tiebissou                     Bocanda                           Agnibilékrou
                                                                                         Lo




             7ºN                                         Bangolo              SASSANDRA                       Bouaflé
                                                                                                              Bouaflé                           LACS                        Daoukro                                                            7ºN
                                                                                    Daloa                                                       YAMOUSSOUKRO                                   MOYEN-
                                                              Duekoue                                        MARAHOUÉ                                                                          COMOÉ                       GHAN A
                                                                                     Lobo




                                                                                                                 Sinfra                                          Dimbokro                                Abengourou
                                             Guiglo                                                                                                                  Bongouanou
                         Toulepleu                                                                                                                     Toumodi
                                   MOYEN-CAVALLY                                    Issia
               To                                                                                                           Oumé
             Monrovia                                                                                        FROMAGER                                                                                                                                                        CÔTE D'IVOIRE
                                                                                                   Gagnoa
                                                                                                                                                                        AGNÉBY            Adzope
             6ºN                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6ºN

                                                                                                                                                  Tiassale        Agboville
                                                                                                                      Lakota        Divo
                                                                                Soubré
                                                                                                                                                                                                           SUD-
                                                                                                                                                                                                     é
                                                                                                                                                                                                  mo
                     L IB E RIA                                                                                                  SUD-
                                                                                                                                                                                               Ko

                                                                                                                                                                                                 Alepe COMOÉ
                                                                                            Sa
                                                                                               ssa




                                                                                                                                                         Nzi




                                                                                                                               BANDAMA                           LAGUNES                                          Aboisso
                                                                                                  nd




                                                                       BAS-                                                                                              Dabou
                                                                                                     ra




                                                                                                                                     Grand-Lahou                                      Abidjan
                                                                    SASSANDRA
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Adiake
                                                                                                                                                                     Jacqueville      Grand-                                       To
             5ºN                                                                                                                                                                      Bassam                                     Prestea       5ºN
                                                                                                               Sassandra

                                                                                          San-Pédro                                                                                   0          40            80        120 Kilometers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33393R
                                            To                                                                                                                                                                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                          Monrovia
                                                                                                                 Gulf of Guinea                                                                                                                      The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
APRIL 2008




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                              Tabou                                                                                                                   0         20        40        60       80 Miles                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                    8ºW                                 7ºW                                    6ºW                                 5ºW                             4ºW                              3ºW
