Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. P-2377-MAI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO TE
REPUBLIC OF MAIAWI
FOR THE
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (NRDP) - PHASE I
November 6, 1978
ThIs_ doeeumsi b  a rtictd dlbdem an my be aned by redplmt emdy in the pedrfmace of
Ihr dictad. lb eutmi may se etewie be ds_clod widbe Wrl  eak autmtion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =  Malawi Kwacha (MK) - 100 Tambala (t)
US$1.00                 =  MK 0.90
MK 1.00                 =  US$1.10
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 lb.                   =  0.453 kg
1 sh. ton               =  2,000 lb = 0.9072 m. ton
1 acre                  = 0.405 h2
1 sq. mile             =  2.59 km
1 bag maize             -  200 lb
1 bag fertilizer        -  110 lb
1 mile                  =  1.6 km
1 gallon                =  4.546 liters
ABBREVIATIONS
ADD            -  Agricultural Development Division
ADF            -  African Development Fund
ADMARC         =  Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
CADO           =  Chief Agricultural Development Officer
CIDA           =  Canadian International Development Agency
CSC            =  Cold Storage Company
DA             =  Development Area
DDO            =  Divisional Development Officer
EDF            =  European Development Fund
EPA            =  Ecological Planning Area
FRG            =  Federal Republic of Germany
INDEBANK       =  Investment and Development Bank of Malawi
KRDP II        =  Karonga Rural Development Project - Phase II
LLDP           = Lilongwe Land Developmo,it Programme
LRDP           =  Lakeshore Rural Development Project
MANR           =  Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MWS            -  Ministry of Works and Supplies
mu             =  Management Unit
NRDP           =  National Rural Development Programme
NSSA           =  National Sample Survey of Agriculture
TA             =  Technical Assistant
TO             =  Technical Officer
SVADP          =  Shire Valley Agricultural Development Programme
UK             =  United Kingdom
UNDP           =  United Nations Development Programme
USAID          =  United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (NRDP) - PHASE I
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Malawi
Beneficiary:      Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
Amount:           US$22.0 million
Terms:            Standard
Project
Description:   The project would assist the Government to implement the first
phase of Malawi's National Rural Development Programme. Over
a five-year period, it aims to increase output of four major
crops (maize, groundnuts, dark-fired and oriental tobacco and
rice) and expand production of milk and meat through strength-
ening the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resource's
Central Services, and four existing Management Units and
establishing eight new development areas (DAs). It would
also complete the consolidation phase of the Lilongwe Land
Development Programme. About 90,000 farm families would
benefit directly from the project which would enable them
to increase their annual farm income by at least 40 percent.
Major risks facing the project are: (i) adoption of improved
husbandry practices by farmers may be slower than projected;
(ii) fertilizer use may be reduced if the prices of fertili-
zers rise faster than smallholder producer prices; (iii)
dark-fired tobacco may prove difficult to market due to
limited world demand. The project would be cofinanced with
the United Kingdom's Overseas Development Ministry (ODM),
European Development Fund (EDF), Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) and the Federal Republic of
Germany. The Association would administer the CIDA
contribution.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
(project is tax exempt)         ------US$ million-----
Local  Foreign   Total      Percentage
Central Services                  2.9     5.3       8.2          12.4
Management Units                  7.7     4.5      12.2          18.5
Development Areas                16.8     9.3      26.1          39.5
LLDP Consolidation                4.1     1.8       6.0           9.1
Sub-total                  31.5    20.9      52.5          79.5
Physical Contingencies            1.8     1.0       2.8           4.3
Price Contingencies               6.3     4.5      10.7          16.2
Total                     39.6    26.4      66.0         100.0
Financing Plan:
-------------…US$ million-------------
Local  Foreign   Total      Percentage
IDA                             11.8    10.2       22.0           33
cIDA (IDA-administered grant)   1.4       1.2       2.6            4
EDF                               6.6     6.5      13.1           20
UK (ODM)                          6.4     5.3      11.7           18
FRG                               3.4     3.2       6.6           10
ADMARC                            1.5      -        1.5            2
Government                        8.5     _         8.5           13
Total                     39.6    26.4      66.0          100
Estimated Disbursements:
(IDA Credit)
------------------US$ million---------------
Bank FY                      1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Annual                           1.0     3.3       4.4     4.4      4.4     4.5
Cumulative                       1.0     4.3       8.7    13.1    17.5    22.0
Rate of Return:    43 percent (IDA-CIDA components alone).
Appraisal Report:  No. 2075a-MAI
November 1978



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME - PHASE I
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Malawi for the equivalent of US$22.0 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance Phase I of the National Rural Development
Programme. The Canadian International Development Agency would contribute
a US$2.6 million equivalent grant which the Association would administer.
The European Development Fund, the United Kingdom's Overseas Development
Ministry and the Federal Republic of Germany would help finance the project
with grants of US$13.1 million, US$11.7 million and US$6.6 million equivalent
respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on the Economy of Malawi" (Report No.
1677a-MAI) dated September 30, 1977 was circulated to the Executive Directors
on October 10, 1977. A Basic Economic Mission is scheduled for May 1979.
Country data sheets are provided in Annex I.
3.        With a population of 5.6 million and a land area of about 46,000
square miles, Malawi is relatively densely populated. Its main assets are
moderately fertile soils, good water resources and a climate favorable to
crop production. Unlike its neighbors, Malawi has no known substantial
mineral resources. Forests constitute the main, essentially untapped, re-
source which could be exploited on a significant scale in the future.
4.        Although Malawi has a GNP per capita of only US$140 and is listed
by the United Nations among the world's poorest countries, its progress since
1964, measured against its natural endowments, has been remarkable. Between
1964 and 1976, GDP at constant prices grew at an average annual rate of 6.5
percent, domestic investment and savings increased rapidly, and government
finances improved sufficiently to eliminate the need for budgetary aid. Agri-
culture, which dominates the economy (47 percent of GDP and 48 percent of
paid employment in 1977), has been directed towards export markets by encour-
aging cash crop estates production and integrated rural development schemes.
In addition, rapid industrial development (the share of industry rose from 9
percent of GDP in 1964 to 17 percent in 1977) has significantly broadened the
economic base.
5.        The continuing success of Malawi's development efforts has been
due in large part to realistic and purposeful planning by the Government. A
Statement of Development Policies (DEVPOL), which provides a general framework



- 2 -
for three-year rolling plans, was published in 1971.  DEVPOL contains major
economic targets up to 1980 and states as main socioeconomic objectives: (a)
raising living standards and productivity in rural areas; (b) achieving an 8
percent average annual real growth of GDP through the parallel development of
smallholder output, estate agriculture and industry; (c) promoting a more
balanced regional development; and (d) developing local initiatives by grad-
ually increasing local participation in the economy.
6.        Of total public sector investments during 1971-80, agriculture
will receive 19 percent, public utilities 11 percent, and social services
15 percent. The transportation sector would receive about 29 percent, although
between now and 1980 the proportion is expected to be temporarily higher (46
percent) because of the concentration of several large investments in those
years. Malawi has an effective administration which has been quite successful
in preparing and implementing development projects.
7.        DEVPOL recognizes the important role of private investment in devel-
opment which, it is anticipated, would account for about one-half of total
fixed capital formation over the 1971-80 period. The Government also recog-
nizes the role of a healthy private sector in generating foreign exchange and
savings needed to sustain other elements of the development strategy, and has
adopted policies which are intended to attract foreign investors and to ensure
continued rapid growth of the private sector. Trade and payments policies
are liberal; profits are moderately taxed and wages are held down to favor
labor-intensive estates and industries. The modern private sector has been
the leader in economic growth. The output of estate agriculture increased by
10 percent a year in real terms over the past decade, and industrial production
rose by 13 percent annually.
8.        In 1969, the poorest 40 percent of Malawi's households received 15
percent of the total income; the highest 20 percent received 53 percent and
the top five percent received 30 percent. Since then, the Government has not
conducted a national household income survey, not only because it is a costly
undertaking but also because income distribution has not been a critical issue
in this country with a large subsistence population and a small modern sector.
9.        In keeping with its efforts to develop the rural areas, the Govern-
ment has directed some of its agricultural investment programs toward small-
holders.  Although, for some years, the Government kept producer prices low,
it now recognizes the importance of sufficiently remunerative commodity
producer prices and has recently authorized increases. Over the past seven
years, real wages have fallen somewhat, and wage employment has increased by
eight percent a year on the average.
10.       Malawi's population is unevenly distributed, and population pressure
in some areas is heavy in relation to arable land. While recognizing the
existence of this problem, the Government has been reluctant to introduce



- 3 -
population control policies and intends to rely instead on balanced regional
development policies that would encourage the movement of population to the
less densely populated areas. Only about eight percent of the total popula-
tion live in urban areas. However, because of the diversification of the
economy, urban population is increasing by more than seven percent per annum,
in line with the expansion of wage employment opportunities in the non-agri-
cultural sectors.
11.       As about 90 percent of the population live in rural areas, rural
development is a primary social and economic objective. At present, the
majority of farmers are smallholders on the fringe of the market economy.
Their staple crop is almost exclusively maize, and their principal cash crops
are cotton, tobacco and groundnuts. Until now, the principal instrument for
increasing smallholder productivity has been relatively intensive, integrated
development projects in specific areas, which, when completed, will reach
about 25 percent of the rural population.
12.       In spite of the Government's efforts, however, production from tradi-
tional agriculture has lagged behind that of the estates. Although firm fig-
ures are lacking, indications are that between 1971 and 1976, production from
the traditional sector grew at about 4.5 percent a year compared to about 11
percent in the estate sector. The Government is concerned about this rela-
tively slow growth and has prepared a new country-wide approach to rural
development. It constitutes a departure from the previous approach in that it
primarily concentrates on providing farm inputs and extension services, with
less emphasis on infrastructure. The new approach - the National Rural
Development Programme - is to become the Government's chief vehicle for small-
holder development.
13.       The country's progress in generating and using domestic resources
has, on the whole, been impressive. Both domestic savings and fixed investment
have risen steadily since independence. Savings, virtually nil in 1964, were
19.2 percent of GDP in 1977, and fixed investment rose during the same period
from 8.5 to 22.5 percent of GDP. In general, the Government's fiscal manage-
ment has been skillful. By holding recurrent expenditures down while expand-
ing revenues, the Government has managed to achieve small budget surpluses and
to raise the domestic contribution to financing capital development expendi-
tures, which was negative in 1964, to 13 percent in 1977. Nevertheless, the
expanding level of development activities would lead to additional demands for
recurrent expenditures, possibly limiting future government contributions to
the capital budget. Consequently, there is need for stepping up domestic
resource mobilization, particularly through taxation. In response, the
Government has increased the company tax, personal income tax and import
duties and excise taxes on some commodities. Further increases, however, will
be needed, both for recurrent expenditures as well as to help finance future
development. The Government is concerned about the problem and, with Bank
assistance, has initiated a study of the fiscal implications of its develop-
ment program.
14.       After serious deterioration in 1975 and 1976, Malawi's balance of
payments recovered sharply in 1977. The deterioration was due principally
to international inflation (and consequent deterioration in the terms of



trade), exacerbated by the suspension in 1974 of the flow of Malawian migrant
workers to South Africa, which drastically reduced remittances, and substan-
tial capital outflows in 1975 and 1976. As a result, Malawi's foreign re-
serves declined from US$82 million in 1974 to US$26 million - equivalent to
about 1-1/2 months of imports - in 1976. The Government took fiscal and mone-
tary measures to deal with the problem, and in 1977, the IMF made available
a first tranche standby credit, equivalent to US$6.3 million. Demand for
Malawi's main agricultural exports, however, continued strong, and foreign
exchange reserves rose to a record level of US$88 million (equivalent to about
four months of imports) by the end of 1977.
15.       The expansion of the Government's investment programs has been
assisted by increased public capital inflows on very concessionary terms.
The net contribution from foreign official sources to the financing of public
investment increased from US$17 million in 1967 to about US$66 million in
1977, of which US$9 million was in grant form. The sources have also been
gradually diversified. At independence, Britain was virtually the only
source; by 1977, the British contribution had declined to about 40 percent.
Multilateral sources, especially IDA, provided about 40 percent, and a var-
iety of bilateral sources, notably Canada and the USA, accounted for the
remainder.
16.       At the end of 1977, Malawi's external public debt totaled US$421
million, of which US$283 million had been disbursed. Debt service in 1977
amounted to US$14.2 million, equivalent to about seven percent of foreign
exchange earnings. At the end of 1977, the Bank's and the combined IDA/Bank
shares in Malawi's disbursed debt were 0.8 percent and 23.4 percent, respec-
tively, and service on the Bank Group debt accounted for 6.3 percent of total
debt service. In 1985, the IDA/Bank share in total disbursed debt is pro-
jected to be 45.3 percent and the service on the Bank Group debt to be 24.5
percent of the total debt service.  With the continuing increase in public
investment, external capital inflow is estimated to increase to about US$117
million by 1985.  In the future, we may expect some hardening of the average
terms of lending.  However, even if the average grant element of official
assistance were to fall from the 80 percent level of 1971-75 to, say, about
60 percent by 1985, Malawi's public debt service obligations still would
remain below five percent of export earnings in 1985. Because of the Gov-
ernment's limited ability to mobilize domestic resources for the pipeline of
projects it is able to prepare and implement (para. 13), external financing
usually covers a substantial part of the project cost, including local costs
when the foreign exchange component is relatively small. Despite the Govern-
ment's success in steadily raising the domestic share of development expend-
itures (13 percent in 1977), new investment is expanding more quickly than
the domestic resource base. Moreover, much of the Government's development
outlays are necessarily concentrated in activities not suitable for external
assistance, so that the proportion of external financing in specific projects
reached the overall level of 87 percent in 1977. In consideration of the
Government's good performance in economic management and project preparation
and implementation, Malawi became eligible for some borrowing on Bank and
Third Window terms in 1976.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
17.       Malawi has received seventeen IDA credits totalling US$132.9 million
and four Bank loans totalling US$29.2 million, of which two were on Third-
Window terms. Of the total Bank Group assistance, US$63 million (38 percent)
was for agriculture, about US$38 million (23 percent) for power development,
about US$18 million (11 percent) for education, US$32 million (20 percent) for
roads, US$3 million (2 percent) for a development finance company (INDEBANK)
and the balance of US$9 million (6 percent) for water supply and to finance
feasibility studies for a planned pulp-mill at Viphya. The first Bank loan
to Malawi was made on Third Window terms in June 1976 and the first standard
Bank loan in April 1977. IFC's investments in Malawi consist of a loan of
US$6 million in February 1976 for a textile mill, another of US$9 million
for sugar development in April 1977, and a US$562,000 equity investment in
INDEBANK in July 1978. A summary statement of Bank Group operations and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects are provided in Annex II. Proj-
ect implementation is generally satisfactory.
18.       Bank Group operations in Malawi would continue to emphasize rural
development and agriculture through further investments in the National
Rural Development Programme (NRDP). A second phase NRDP project is already
under preparation. Other major areas of concentration include education,
water supply, and transportation. A third education project, which has
already been appraised, would help expand Malawi's secondary school teacher
training program as well as its technical and commercial educational facili-
ties. In water supply, project preparation based on a sector study recently
undertaken by the IBRD/WHO Cooperative Program has begun. A fourth highway
project, which will be identified shortly, is likely to include extension
of the main north-south spine road as well as assistance for feeder road
development. Finally, we are examining possible investments in power, in-
dustry and urban sites and services.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
19.       In 1975/76 agriculture employed some 85 percent of the population,
contributed about 46 percent of GDP and accounted for 94 percent of export
earnings. The majority of the population is concentrated in the more fertile
southern regions of the country. About 82 percent of the total land area is
held under customary tenure, and about 2 percent is either freehold or lease-
hold estates or plantations; the average holding is about 4 acres. Soils are
relatively fertile, and the fairly reliable rainfall permits the cultivation
of a variety of food and cash crops. Land conservation and maintenance of
soil fertility through the introduction of improved techniques and inputs
has become increasingly important as the food requirements for the expanding
population have to be met by extending cultivation to land areas which are
more susceptible to erosion.



- 6-
Government Agricultural Services
20.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) is pri-
marily responsible for providing services to the agricultural sector. The
Ministry also exercises general supervision over the activities of the Agri-
cultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC) which has the dual
tasks of marketing smallholder crops and establishing and developing agricul-
tural and agro-industrial enterprises. ADMARC acts as a residual buyer
of smallholder produce, a large amount of which is either sold or bartered
among the farmers themselves. ADMARC also supplies farm inputs to small-
holders.
Agricultural Credit Services
21.       There is no central agricultural credit institution in Malawi, but
smallholder farmers have access to seasonal and medium-term credit through:
(a) MANR's four major integrated agricultural development projects in Lilongwe,
Karonga, the Shire Valley and the Lake Shore; (b) the Government's Loans
Board; (c) Crop Development Authorities (a Department of the Ministry of
Trade, Commerce and Industry), (d) the Technical Services Department of MANR
(for settlement schemes), and (e) minor agricultural projects of MANR. The
commercial farming sector uses commercial banks, INDEBANK and ADMARC for its
credit. Each credit organization is responsible for its own portfolio al-
though recently there has been some centralization of the credit accounts
administered by MANR. The bulk of smallholder credit which now amounts to MK
2.0 million annually, is provided under the rural development projects.
Of this amount 98 percent is seasonal credit. Since the credit operations
under the projects are strictly supervised and properly supported by exten-
sion, input supply and marketing services, repayment rates have been generally
satisfactory.
Livestock
22.       Malawi's total cattle population, estimated at over 700,000 in 1976,
is growing at a rate of about 5 percent per annum, with yearly offtake rates
of about 10 percent. The Government operates a fattening ranch, and stall-
feeder schemes, produces crossbred Friesian/Zebu dairy heifers for small-
holder dairying, collects milk and offers artificial insemination services.
Malawi is self-sufficient in meat.
Smallholder Production
23.       Smallholders, who account for 85 percent of all agricultural output,
grow maize (the most important crop), groundnuts, cassava, and, to a lesser
extent, rice, sorghum and wheat. Their main cash crops are groundnuts, fire-
cured tobacco, maize, cotton, pulses and rice. In 1976, exports of these
crops totalled US$54.3 million, or 35 percent of Malawi's agricultural export
earnings. Estates produce only 15 percent of total agricultural output, but
account for over 60 percent of agricultural exports (mainly tea and flue-cured
and burley tobacco). Exports from estates earned US$88.0 million in 1976.



24.       Before the mid-sixties, relatively low-cost rural development
projects, mostly financed by the UK and the UNDP, were the principal means of
raising smallholder productivity. Later, larger integrated development
programs in four specific areas (Lilongwe, Shire Valley, Karonga and the Lake
Shore) were undertaken. Implementation of these programs has been good. The
projects are popular with farmers and the farming communities show visible
signs of betterment, although crop production increases have generally been
lower than originally forecast.
Lilongwe Land Development Programme
25.       IDA has helped finance the three phases of the  Lilongwe Land
Development Programme (LLDP) started in 1968. Originally planned for 500,000
acres of land, the LLDP was subsequently expanded to cover about 1.2 million
acres and provide infrastructure, such as roads, markets, water and health
facilities, land improvement and conservation, irrigation, improved extension
and credit. About 860,000 acres in the LLDP are occupied by smallholders.
161,000 acres are being developed as a ranch and the remainder are a forest
reserve. Taking into account the increased area and allowing for inflation,
the program's physical facilities are being completed within the original
time and cost estimates.
26.       Crop and livestock production in the project area has increased
although crop production has generally fallen below the levels forecast at
appraisal. This has been partly due to a sudden rise in fertilizer prices
between 1973 and 1974 which for a time reduced fertilizer use. There also was
slower adoption by farmers of the recommended fertilizer/seed input packages
than had been expected, although there is ample evidence that those who have
applied the recommended packages for maize and fire-cured tobacco achieved the
yields and profits estimated at appraisal. Evaluating the Project's impact on
output has proved very difficult. If one uses production increase figures
provided by the Project Evaluation Unit (which are the only firm figures
available), and assumes that Government would maintain the level of services
necessary to maintain the present incremental production, then the economic
rate of return for the first three phases of LLDP would be minus two percent.
However, these figures underestimate the productivity attained under the LLDP
since the methodology used by the Unit was unable to quantify a number of
factors such as the sale of green maize to the nearby capital of Lilongwe, and
direct farmer exports of maize and groundnuts to neighboring countries.
In addition, the Unit's analysis (a) compared the increases in groundnut
yields attained on poor soils under the project with yields on better soils
outside the project and (b) did not attribute quantified benefits to the
project for the dramatic increase in tobacco yield from 250 lb. to 350 lb./
acre both inside and outside the project area brought about by increased
fertilizer use promoted in the project area and later disseminated outside the
project area. While such benefits might not be sufficient to raise the
economic rate of return to the 12 percent forecast at appraisal it could well
raise it towards the 8 percent that the Performance Audit Report (No. 1597-MAI,
May 17, 1977) very tentatively estimated for the LLDP's first two phases. This
report, which also noted the difficulty in estimating incremental benefits,



- 8 -
described the project as "successful, but more so with respect to changes and
innovations introduced to the farmers and Government policies and services
than with respect to the original productivity objectives."
Shire Valley and Karonga Projects
27.       The three other integrated development programmes are:  Shire Valley
(IDA Credits, 114-, 363- and 823-MAI); Karonga (IDA Credit 282-MAI and Third
Window Loan 1286-T-MAI); and the Lake Shore (first financed by the Federal
Republic of Germany and now by the European Development Fund).
28.       The Shire Valley Project has increased farmers' cotton yields.
Phase I met farmer acceptance targets. Unfortunately, drought conditions in
1974/75 and 1975/76 seriously affected expansion of the second phase cotton
production. To a lesser extent, food crop yields have also improved compared
to what they would have been without the project. A third IDA credit for the
Shire Project was approved by the Executive Directors on June 6, 1978. The
Project Performance Audit Report (No. 895-MAI, October 22, 1975) on the first
phase considered the project to be well conceived, effectively implemented
and generally successful and re-estimated the economic rate of return at 15
percent (lower than the 21 percent estimated at appraisal). A Completion
Report on the second phase is being prepared. Implementation of the Karonga
project has been generally successful although there have been cost overruns,
especially for the irrigation scheme. After a slow start, incremental pro-
duction has exceeded maize targets and is 90 percent of target for rainfed
rice while falling short for cotton and groundnuts; the latter is mainly a
reflection of insufficient price incentives. However, at Karonga the slow
attainment of the expected production levels, high initial expenditure and
irrigation cost overruns will reduce the rate of return below the 12 percent
estimated at the time of appraisal. A Completion Report on the first phase
is being prepared.
29.       While all of these programs are contributing significantly to
expanding agricultural production, they are expensive in terms of infra-
structure. In order to reach more people at a faster rate, Government has
decided to modify its approach by putting more emphasis on extension services
and supply of inputs and less on costly infrastructure. This has led to the
formulation of a National Rural Development Programme (NRDP), the first phase
of which would be financed by the proposed credit.
The National Rural Development Programme (NRDP)
30.       The primary objective of the NRDP is, over the next 20 years, to
extend and consolidate various agricultural development programs over the
entire country but necessarily with less intensive staffing and infrastruc-
ture. Specifically, it aims to increase the level of smallholder production
through the provision of agricultural inputs and farm services. Cultivation
of new land will be discouraged; emphasis will be placed on improved produc-
tivity from already cultivated areas. Attention will also be given to soil
conservation, watershed management, and afforestation.



- 9 -
31.       The MANR will have responsibility for implementation of the program.
The country is being divided into eight Agricultural Development Divisions
(ADDs), each of which will be administered by a Management Unit. On the aver-
age, each ADD will be divided into five Development Areas (DAs), each covering
approximately 25,000 farm families, which will be the basic unit of develop-
ment. NRDP envisages a 15-18 year development period for each DA. Ten DAs
are covered by ongoing projects and eight more, located in four ADD's, will
be covered by the first phase of NRDP.
32.       Some essential infrastructure, including offices, housing and
staffing are already being financed in three development areas of the IDA-
assisted Second Karonga Project, and in one development area - Namwera - by
the African Development Fund. In addition, the United States Agency for
International Development is currently considering a Government proposal
to finance a research project associated with the NRDP.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, National Rural Develop-
ment Programme (NRDP) Phase I," No. 2075-MAI, dated November 1978, is being
distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
34.       The proposed project was prepared by the Malawi Government with
assistance from the Bank Group. Preparation was financed by the Bank under
Loan 1286-T-MAI for the Second Karonga Project. The Government's request for
Bank-Group assistance for the proposed project was received in September
1977. The project was appraised in the field in November 1977. Represen-
tatives of the European Development Fund (EDF), the United Kingdom's Overseas
Development Ministry (OD14), and the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA) participated in the appraisal. Negotiations were held in Washington
from October 2 to 5, 1978. The Malawi delegation was led by Mr. C. Mphande,
Under-Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
Objectives and Description of the Project
35.       The project would assist the Government over five years to imple-
ment the first phase of NRDP. It would strengthen MANR's Central Services
and the four Management Units necessary for this phase of the program, and
commence development in eight new DAs as well as complete the consolidation
phase of the Lilongwe Land Development Program. The project's major objec-
tives would be to: (i) increase the number of farmers applying improved
practices - 80,000 to 100,000 are expected to participate; (ii) provide
advice and credit to participating farmers; (iii) provide increased health
and infrastructural facilities directly or indirectly affecting most families
in the project area; and (iv) consolidate the Lilongwe Land Development Pro-
gramme.



- 10 -
36.       To meet these objectives, the proposed project would specifically
provide for:
(a) strengthening MANR's Central Services capacity to
supervise and implement the programme, evaluate
results and plan future projects;
(b) expanding technical, accounting, evaluation and
management capacities of the Management Units at
Lilongwe, Mzuzu, Zomba and Blantyre as well as the
construction of associated buildings and offices;
(c) improving services and providing infrastructure
in eight new Development Areas, namely: Thiwi-
Lifidzi, Ntcheu, Mzimba, Henga Valley, Nchisi,
Phalombe, Mwanza and Kawinga; and
(d) consolidating the investments made under the Lilongwe
Land Development Program.
Central Services
37.       The management capacity of MANR would be strengthened through pro-
vision of additional technical staff at headquarters. A Project Coordinator's
post would be established to assist the Chief Agricultural Development Officer
in implementing the project. Other project-related staff would include a
Financial Coordinator, a Senior Agricultural Credit Officer, a Systems Ana-
lyst Programmer and accounting staff, an Assistant Conservator of Forests,
an Estates Officer and a Works Officer for the building program. The proj-
ect would finance staff houses, vehicles, equipment, technical assistance,
incremental staff salaries and incremental operating costs.
38.       An NRDP Construction Unit would be established within MANR to carry
out civil works on the project's road component. The Unit would liaise closely
with the Ministry of Works and Supplies. A Senior Construction and Conserva-
tion Officer, selected by the Borrower in consultation with the Association
(Section 3.06, draft Development Credit Agreement), would head the Unit.
39.       In order to upgrade and give refresher training to the extension
staff the capacity of the Falls Estate Training Center would be expanded and
extra staff provided. In addition, fellowships would be provided by the UNDP
for overseas training of NRDP related staff.
40.       The project would also strengthen MANR's Planning Division by provid-
ing three new professional posts, staff houses, vehicles, office equipment,
incremental staff and operating costs, consultant time for some special
studies and project preparation and funds for the National Sample Survey of
Agriculture which will be undertaken during the course of the project.
Similarly, MANR's Land Husbandry Division would receive additional staff
posts, equipment and incremental operating cost for staff training and survey
work.



- 11 -
41.       The project will finance two studies of the extension service and
the credit system, to be carried out by the Government with the assistance of
consultants. The first study, to be completed by December 31, 1979, will
determine the optimum number of farmers per extension staff and review the
procedures used in extension and other agricultural services at all levels in
MANR. The second study, to be completed by July 31, 1980, will analyze the
role of credit in Malawi and recommend a long-term credit strategy. Both
studies will be reviewed with the Association within six months after comple-
tion and agreed changes implemented promptly thereafter (Sections 3.03 and
3.05, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Management Units
42.       In order to establish a common pattern among Management Units,
additional staff and infrastructure will be required at four ADDs (Lilongwe,
Mzuzu, Blantyre and Zomba). Twenty-five professional officer, 16 technical
officer and 50 technical assistant posts will be created and additional
vehicles and buildings provided for them. The project would finance build-
ings, vehicles, office equipment, staff salaries and incremental operating
costs. To improve the distribution of inputs and marketing produce, delivery
and market systems, ADMARC will provide supply and liaison officers in each
Management Unit.
Development Areas
43.       The eight new DAs will cover an area of about 5,900 square miles
of varying ecological and geographical conditions. The DAs have been
selected on the basis of population density, need for soil conservation and
infrastructure, as well as overall geographical distribution. Farm families
in these areas number about 184,000. By the end of the project period, the
number will have increased to about 206,000.
44.       Each DA would provide for:  DA management and extension services,
provision of inputs and credit, field trials, improvement and maintenance of
feeder roads, construction of markets and input stores, establishment of tree
nurseries, expansion of health facilities and, in some DAs, improvement of
water supplies.
45.       The extension services will be strengthened by (i) doubling
the number of extension workers to about one worker for every 750 families;
and (ii) constructing over 50 stores and markets which will sell fertilizer,
seed, pesticides and farming tools, and purchase smallholder produce. About
US$3.4 million will be provided under the project to expand farmer credit.
Field trials commenced under earlier projects will be expanded. A small
forest nursery will be established in each DA to provide seedlings for about
200 acres annually, thereby helping to relieve a growing shortage of fuelwood
for domestic use and tobacco processing. Tree seedlings also will be sold
to farmers to plant on their own farms and village woodlots.



- 12 -
46.       Health facilities will be expanded by constructing or renovating
about 40 small rural maternity units, dispensaries and health centers. Potable
water supply will be improved through the construction of boreholes and piped
water sources. Other infrastructure includes the construction or rehabilita-
tion of about 1,000 miles of earth roads and 14 small bridges.
47.       The project will have no adverse impact on the environment in the
DAs; indeed, it will improve living conditions and assist soil and water con-
servation by promoting better land husbandry.
Consolidation of the Lilongwe Land Development Programme (LLDP)
48.       Most of the physical structures for the total LLDP area of 860,000
acres were completed earlier this year, 10 years after the LLDP commenced.
However, a number of additional investments and activities will be necessary
over the next five years to complete the LLDP development. Land survey and
registration have to be completed. Extension efforts will focus on improving
crop husbandry and production and increasing the use of inputs for beef pro-
duction, smallholder dairying and intensive egg production. Efforts will be
made to improve grazing practices through the promotion of communal grazing
programs. A tree nursery will be established to encourage smallholders to
produce fuelwood. About 90 borehole aprons and 15 bridges will be built to
improve water supplies and transport. Additional breeding stock and operating
capital for the Dzalanyama Ranch will enable the ranch to double the size of
its herd to over 15,000 heads by 1986.
Manpower
49.       Although the project will specifically create three positions for
internationally recruited professional staff, emphasis is on localization,
and ten training posts have been included. The Government will fill key pro-
fessional posts with Malawians during the execution of the project (Section
3.09, draft Development Credit Agreement). To meet the project's requirement
for technical staff, the Government would ensure that (a) the NRDP projects
receive adequate attention in the allocation of staff, (b) a large number
of Bunda College graduates are attracted to MANR, (c) technical assistant
upgrading examinations and courses are given priority, (d) existing agri-
culturalist training institute facilities and staff would be made available
to run the courses for the new Technical Assistants to be recruited directly
into MANR services, and (e) further expansion of the NRDP and other MANR
development projects would be phased so as to enable NRDP and other ongoing
MANR projects to be fully staffed (Section 3.10, draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
50.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$66.0 mil-
lion (net of taxes and duties from which the Project is exempted), of which
about US$26.4 million, or 40 percent, represents foreign expenditures. On a



- 13 -
functional basis, 43 percent of project expenditures would go towards exten-
sion, rural training, field trials, livestock, marketing and management ser-
vices in Development Areas, LLDP and Management Units; 13 percent for central
management services and administrative and accounting sections in Management
Units and Central Services; 20 percent would go towards roads and the con-
struction unit; 8 percent for credit; 6 percent for health, water and for-
estry services; 4 percent for land demarcation and registration, land use
planning and mapping; 4 percent for central training, fellowships, studies
and a national agricultural survey; and 2 percent for monitoring and evalua-
tion and planning for future NRDP development. In expenditure terms, it is
expected that 23 percent would be spent on buildings; 14 percent on roads
(excluding equipment); 11 percent on vehicles and equipment; 8 percent on
credit; 3 percent on training fellowships, studies and agricultural surveys;
20 percent on staff salaries and 21 percent on other operating costs.
51.       The proposed IDA credit of $22.0 million together with the IDA
administered grant of Can $ 3.0 (US$2.6 million equivalent) would finance 37
percent of the project costs on a joint financing basis. The IDA administered
grant would be in accordance with the terms of the agreement of April 22, 1977
between the Government of Canada and the Association, as amended.  We expect
final approval of the proposed grant by the Canadian Government shortly and,
if you approve, we will thereafter execute the agreement in the form attached.
The EDF, ODM and the Federal Republic of Germany would help finance other com-
ponents of the project on a parallel basis.  A summary of the proposed
financing is given below.
Percentage
US$         of                Main Components
Million    Total Costs               Financed
IDA          22.0          33         )  Central Services
CIDA (IDA-                            ) Lilongwe MU, Lilongwe
administered                          )  Consolidation Phase,
grant)        2.6           4         )  Thiwi-Lifidzi, Ntcheu,
Mzimba DAs
EDF           13.1         20            NRDP Construction Unit,
Mzuzu MU, Henga DA,
Ntchisi DA and Fellowships
UK           11.7          18            National Sample Survey,
Blantyre MU, Phalombe DA,
Mwanza DA
FRG           6.6          10            Zomba MU, Kawinga DA
ADMARC         1.5          2            Marketing, stores
Government    8.5          13
66.0        100



- 14 -
52.       The financial assistance to be provided by all the external agen-
cies totals US$56.0 million equivalent, or 85 percent of the estimated total
net project cost. External assistance would cover all the foreign exchange
requirements and about 75 percent of local costs. The Government and ADMARC
will contribute US$8.5 million and US$1.5 million, respectively, or 15 per-
cent, of total project cost. The contributions from CIDA, EDF, FRG and the
U.K. would be in the form of grants. The draft Credit Agreement provides for
cross effectiveness with respect to the EDF, CIDA and ODM grant agreements
since those contributions would support NRDP-wide components (Section 6.01,
draft Development Credit Agreement). There is no need for a similar provi-
sion for the FRG contribution. Retroactive financing up to US$650,000 is
recommended to help finance project expenditures incurred after March 31,
1978 particularly in connection with the LLDP consolidation (Schedule 1,
para. 4(i), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       Of the IDA and CIDA financed components, vehicles, machinery and
equipment (US$2.2 million) in orders of US$100,000 or higher would be pro-
cured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines; orders would be bulked whenever possible. Civil works
and boreholes (US$5.5 million), which, due to their small sizes and widely
distributed locations, would not attract international interest, would be
constructed after local competitive bidding, or by force account (Schedule
3, paras. Al and B1, 2 and 3, draft Development Credit Agreement). Procure-
ment of the project components being financed by other agencies would follow
those agencies' procurement policies, except for CIDA's which would be admin-
istered by IDA according to Bank Group procedure.
54.       Proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed on the following
bases: (i) 88 percent of the total costs of civil works and boreholes; (ii)
88 percent of the incremental credit advanced to farmers for fertilizer and
pesticides; and (iii) 100 percent of the foreign exchange expenditure and
88 percent of the local expenditures of all other items. A schedule of esti-
mated disbursements is provided in the Credit and Project Summary.
Project Administration and Implementation
55.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) will have
overall responsibility for the implementation of the proposed project. The
Planning Division will provide baseline data, prepare and evaluate projects,
collect and analyze marketing data, coordinate development estimates and ex-
penditures, and monitor the execution of on-going projects. Its Department
of Agricultural Development, which would be specifically in charge of imple-
menting NRDP, would be headed by a Chief Agricultural Development Officer
(CADO) who would be supported by specialist staff. The Ministry of Health



- 15 -
would be responsible for the health component and would guide land planners in
the selection of sites for new health centers. An NRDP Coordinating Officer
would be in overall charge of coordination and planning. An NRDP Ministerial
Committee, under the chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary of MANR and
including representatives of the Office of the President and other relevant
agencies, would be created to review, regularly, progress of the project's
implementation.
56.       The Ministry of Works and Supplies (MWS) would establish standards
and provide technical assistance to MANR for the construction of the major
civil works. The Ministry of Works and Supplies (MWS), will maintain com-
pleted main and secondary roads while District Councils which have the requi-
site capacity would maintain completed district roads. In cases where the
District Councils do not yet have the requisite capacity, the MWS would be in
charge of maintenance (see Sections 3.07 and 3.08, draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Government, through the MWS, will continue to assist all
District Councils in developing adequate road maintenance capacity.
Production, Marketing and Prices
57.       Projected crop yields of maize, groundnuts and tobacco assume the
adoption by farmers of recommended farming and crop husbandry practices.
These improved practices include the use of improved seed varieties, correct
plant populations, fertilizer in appropriate quantities at the appropriate
stages of crop growth, and better crop husbandry, rotation and storage. Based
upon the programme's continuing research, the package will be revised as war-
ranted.
58.       ADMARC will supply fertilizer to farmers and, jointly with MANR's
Agriculture Department, will produce and distribute seed. The Agricultural
Research Department would breed, select and produce improved seed varieties
and inspect and certify seeds for distribution. It is estimated that, with
the facilities and services to be provided under the proposed project, acreage
planted with improved seed would total 205,000 in maize, 44,000 in groundnuts
and 66,500 in tobacco. On this basis, total production by the eighth year of
the project would amount to about 110,000 tons of maize, 9,000 tons of ground-
nuts, 4,500 tons of dark-fired tobacco, 350 tons of oriental tobacco, 3,200
tons of rice, 400 short tons of meat and 85,000 gallons of milk. Compared to
1977, these would represent increases of 11 percent in maize production, 25
percent in the volume of ADMARC-purchased groundnuts, and 21 percent and 12
percent each in the total production of dark-fired tobacco and rice, 3 percent
in meat production and 8 percent in marketed milk.
59.       It is anticipated that the LLDP consolidation phase of the project
would raise the off-take of ranch-bred steers from about 1,000 head at present
to about 1,500, by 1983. In all Development Areas, organized grazing, appro-
priate stocking, stall-feeding and dairy production would be encouraged to



- 16 -
avoid overgrazing and the consequent erosion. LLDP smallholder poultry devel-
opment has been less successful than was expected. Chick mortality rates
have been high, and food costs have risen while egg prices have remained
stationary. Nevertheless since the project management believes these problems
can be overcome, the pilot smallholder scheme would be continued to gain ex-
perience. However, no further investments will be made unless fully justified.
60.       Local and export demand would absorb the project's increased produc-
tion. ADMARC would buy the surplus crop produce, mostly for export, the
Government-owned Cold Storage Company would buy beef for domestic consumption
and the Capital Dairy Company, also government-owned, would buy and process
milk for local sale. There are also prospects for increasing exports of
dark-fired tobacco if ADMARC embarked on an agressive marketing campaign.
It is presently grown by small tenant farmers on large estates which, under
current legislation, are the only ones who can grow it. In view of the
potential for good earnings from burley tobacco, the Government has agreed to
investigate the feasibility of smallholders cultivating it in the project area
(Section 3.11, draft Development Credit Agreement).
61.       The Government fixes minimum purchase prices of crops and livestock,
with ADMARC's and Cold Storage Company's advice. In the past several years
the Government's policy with regard to ADMARC has aimed at building a price
support reserve, maintaining maize self-sufficiency, holding down consumer
prices and building up ADMARC's surpluses for public investment. As a result,
producer prices have risen relatively slowly and, for certain crops, have
declined in real terms. In some areas, prices have been such that the profit-
ability of cultivating groundnuts and cotton has become much less attrac-
tive than growing maize or rice. Producer prices of meat also have not
changed since 1975 (though stallfeeders' operations still are profitable
largely because of good prices for by-products). In view of the need for
growth in the beef industry and in agricultural production generally, the
Government's pricing policy needs to be reviewed.
62.       The Government has agreed to establish a statutory pricing committee
consisting of representatives from the Treasury, MANR, ADMARC and the Economic
Planning Division of the Office of the President and Cabinet. The committee
would review prices annually and make substantive recommendations to MANR.
Within 18 months of commencement of the implementation of the proposed proj-
ect, the Government would review its marketing and pricing policies with
the Association and prepare a report on revisions to those policies to be
adopted by September 1980 (Section 3.12, draft Development Agreement). The
committee would also review annually the effects of prices on the production
of major crops in the project area and send to the Association its comments
on the efficacy of NRDP's pricing policies in meeting the production targets.
ADMARC would appoint two economists to improve its market and price analysis
and place liaison officers in each Management Unit headquarters to improve
marketing and storage distribution (Sections 3.12 and 3.13, draft Development
Credit Agreement). The Government's adjustment of meat prices to a level
sufficient to provide a reasonable operating cash flow for the Dzalanyama
Ranch would be a condition of disbursement of funds for that ranch (Sched-
ule 1, paragraph 4, draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
Benefits and Risks
63.       Since three of the co-financiers have not completed their appraisals
of their components, an internal economic rate of return for the entire Phase I
of the NRDP has not been calculated. Each co-financier is preparing the rate
of return for its respective components; preliminary information indicates
that such rates of return would be satisfactory. The following discussion
relates to the IDA and CIDA financed components.
64.       The proposed IDA credit and CIDA grant would finance consolidation
of smallholder farming in Lilongwe, and would develop new smallholder farming
schemes in Thiwi-Lifidzi, Ntcheu and Mzimba. By 1989 when the Dzalanyama
Ranch is projected to be fully developed, these components would account for
an incremental production valued at about US$12 million equivalent per annum,
of which an estimated 75 percent would be in foreign exchange. The projet
would have a number of secondary benefits (stemming from improved health
services, roads, and water supplies) which cannot be quantified.
65.       The internal economic rate of return for the IDA and CIDA financed
components in the project is estimated at 43 percent over twenty years.
Included in this calculation are development costs of LLDP, Thiwi-Lifidzi,
Ntcheu and Mzimba and the estimated shares in the Management Units and Central
Services, plus on-farm costs. Excluded are health and forestry costs, for
which no benefits have been quantified. Tobacco and groundnuts have been
priced at export parity, and meat at import prices. Maize prices assume
that Malawi is a net maize exporter. Wages and salaries are priced at market
rates. A year's delay in the accrual of benefits would reduce the rate
of return to 28 percent and a 10 percent reduction in benefits would reduce
it to 36 percent. If costs were to increase by 20 percent, the rate of
return would drop to 30 percent. If ADMARC should be unable to develop
and sustain a viable export market for the project's estimated output (4,500
tons) of dark-fired tobacco, and the latter were replaced by maize, the rate
of return would fall to about 24 percent.
6 &.      The IDA and CIDA financed crop production schemes alone would, within
five years, generate about 4 million man-days of employment (full-time employ-
ment for about 15,000 unskilled laborers). A typical farm family in the
LLDP would be able to increase its present annual income by 40 percent to
US$170 equivalent. The high rate of return (43 percent) is due to the "sunk"
development costs of the three previous phases of LLDP. If these are taken
into account, the rate of return for the four phases of LLDP and the three
new DAs would fall to 12 percent; the four phases of LLDP alone have a similar
rate of return. The internal rate of return for the three new DAs are Thiwi-
Lifidzi - 13 percent, Mzimba - 11 percent and Ntcheu - 7 percent. Ntcheu has
a low rate of return because it does not have an easily quantifiable high-
valued cash crop, like tobacco, and, because of unreliable data, the benefits
from increased fruit, vegetable and potato production judged likely in the
area, have not been quantified.
67.       The project faces several risks:  (i) because of the innovative
nature of some of the improved husbandry practices, farmers may be slower



- 18 -
to adopt them than is expected; (ii) farmers' use of fertilizer may be lower
than projected, particularly if fertilizer price increases are not matched by
increases in agricultural product prices; and (iii) the production of dark-
fired tobacco may prove difficult to sell in the world markets, so that
farmers would cultivate maize instead. Given these uncertainties and the
slower than expected progress attained in expanding production in earlier
projects, the present project stresses extension and positive pricing policies
in order to stimulate output.
68.       The Government's cash flow from the project (including the EDF, UK
and CIDA components) would be negative for about five years, but from the
sixth year, would be positive and amount to about MK 2.7 million by the
twelfth year of implementation. Three factors contribute substantially to
the financial viability of the project, namely: (i) the substantial grant
element in the financing package, (ii) the understanding that all of ADMARC's
profits would be used for government-directed purposes, and (iii) the assump-
tion that dark-fired and oriental tobacco (the major profit-generating crop
for ADMARC) would be produced as envisaged. Nevertheless, for future phases
of the NRDP, Malawi should encourage the cultivation of other higher-priced
crops with good marketing prospects, like burley or flue-cured tobacco, in
order to increase government revenue particularly as dark-fired tobacco grown
by smallholders has limited export prospects in the future. In order to
assure the viability of future investments in the agricultural sector, the
Government has agreed to (a) prepare and submit, for the Association's review
by September 30, 1979, a report on the budgetary implications of all develop-
ment projects, and recommend measures to deal with them, (b) establish in MANR
a group to study and make recommendations on the best procedures to increase
revenue earnings from the Ministry's services and facilities. The Government
will consult with the Association before undertaking establishment of new DAs
outside the proposed Project (Sections 3.14 and 3.15, draft Development Credit
Agreement). Furthermore, the Government will assume, as recurrent expenditure,
a gradually increasing share of the annual operating costs of NRDP, so that
by the fifth year of NRDP the Government will meet at least 80 percent of the
recurrent costs of the LLDP and at least 20 percent of those of the Lilongwe
ADD Management Unit, and the Thiwi-Lifidzi, Ntcheu and Mzimba DAs (Section
3.02, draft Development Credit Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Malawi and the Association, the draft Development Grant Agreement between
the Republic of Malawi and International Development Association as Adminis-
trator on behalf of the Government of Canada, and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
70.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report.



- 19 -
71.       It is a special condition for the effectiveness of the Credit
Agreement that the Borrower shall have obtained the U.K. and EDF grants and
all conditions to the effectiveness of the Canadian Grant Agreement will
also have been fulfilled (Section 6.01, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Disbursements would not be made for the (i) studies to be undertaken under the
project until the Borrower has employed the consultants required for such
studies under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association; and (ii)
Dzalanyama Ranch component of the Project until the Borrower has adjusted
producer meat prices sufficiently to enable the Ranch to attain a positive
cash flow (Schedule 1, paragraph 4 (ii) and (iii), draft Development Credit
Agreement).
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 6, 1978



- 20 -                                             ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
MALAWI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REIERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MALAII                                                 La
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KK.)                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            118.5                                                 SAME         SAME     NEXT RIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      41.2                               HOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb      REGION LS  GROUP 1d   GROUP La
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  50.0        70.0    140.0            223.6      182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       ..        46.0      56.0            86.7       88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPUiLATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        3.5         4.6       5.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 4.4          5.6       7.9            13.6       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      29.0         38.0      47.2            18.4       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. EK. AGRICULTURAL LAND    92.0        114.0    135.9             53.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        42.9        43.9      45.4            44.4        43.6        44,9
15-64 YRS.                        53.2        52.1      51.3            52.7       53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.9          4.0       3.3             2.8        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.2         2.6       2.9             2.6        2.4         2.7
URBAN                             5.5          5.0       7.6             5.8        4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    49.0         49.3      47.7            46.9       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    30.6         28.1      23.7            20.6       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2         3.2       3.2             3.1        2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WHOMEN)   ..          ..        ..             2.5       14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             89.0       100.0    113.2             94.2       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   86.0       103.0    103.0             90.1       92.3        9.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          50.0        54.0      68.4            55.2       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        6.0 /f      9.0       9.9            17.1       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       ..          ..        ..              ..         ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   35.0         38.5      41.0            43.7       45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..           ..    142.0            138.4      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..             22.4       26.4        31.1
URBAN                               ..         ..         ..            66.3       63.5        68.5
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..            10.4       14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         ..        ..             23.9       16.1        37.5
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..             70.3       65.9        69.5
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..             14.2        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         35000.0 /f  38250.0       ..          21757.5   13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..    16090.0        ..           3473.8    6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            940.0 14    760.0       ..            645.4    1157.6        786.5
URBAN                               ..       190.0       ..            172.9      183.3       278.4
RURAL                              ..       1520.0       ..           1292.6    1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        36.3 /h    ..             19.2       19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..              4.9       5.2
URBAN                               *-         3.41L      ..             5.0        4.8
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              4.7        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         ..        ..
URBAN                               ..         1.9 A     1.7             ..         1.8         2.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         ..        ..              ..        25.9        28.3
URBAN                               ..        16.0 L      ...
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                         8.7        10.3



- 21 -                                        ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
MALAWI - SOCIAL MIDICATORS DATA SKEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MALAWI
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME       SAUM    NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME      INCOIm
1960 l     1970 lb ESTIMATE b      REGION /L  GROUP Id  GQOUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL               63.0        40.0      61.0           52.1       62.9        75.8
FEKALE              45.0        29.0     48.0            37.6      45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                1.0         2.0       3.0            8.0       14.4        17.7
FEMALE               0.3         1.0      2.0             5.0       8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 24.0       3.0       8.5            7.2        6.6         7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                         41.0        43.0      58.0           43.2       38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                        14.0       16.0      19.0           22.8       19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        ..       22.0 a   25.0            20.3       36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        1.8        2.0       2.3            3.9        3.1         7.
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUIATIONI                       9.0 /k    20.0      26.0           40.1       31.1        71.
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       0.7          ..        ..            2.2        2.8        14.J
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  ..         ..       2.0            3.9        6.0        16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.3        ..       0.4            1.2        1.4         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TEOUSANDS)    1700.0     2000.0   R300.0
FEMALE (PIRCENT)                38.3        37.8      37.5           32.6       24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)           93.0        89.1      86.0           73.3       60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               2.7         3.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             48.2        46.9      45.8           42.0       39.8        37.8
MALE                              60.3        59.2      58.1           54.8       53.3        50.3
FEBMLE                            36.4        35.0      33.9           27.3       19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.0         1.1       1.1            1.2        1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..       29.5        ..           25.7       20.3        19.5
HIGEEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   ..       52.9        ..           55.1       45.1       48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS    ..        5.7        ..            5.8        5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS    ..       15.0       ..            14.5       16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..         ..      60.0          108.8       88.5       155.9
RURAL                             ..          ..      60.0           74.1       71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..        ..          124.4      100.8      143.7
RURAL                             ..          ..      40.0           59.6       42.0       87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                             ..          ..      25.0           26.8       46.0       22.9
RURAL                             ..          ..      85.0           47.6       48.0       36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
La   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geomtric means, excluding the extrem
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countriesa mong the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c Africa South of Sahara;  /d Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  /e Lomer Middle Income
($281-550 per capita. 1976);  /f  1962;  LB 1963; /h  1965; /L  1967; LI  1966; /k  Including
data for Southern Rhodesia and Zambia.
September, 1978



- 22 -                                                                    ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
N2y,:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the s.Oot
populated country in each group. Clverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excrata disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geom.etric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand  q. kn)                                                            Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                      urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily               available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                  habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fellow.                                                                           at least one physician.  Establishm.ents providing principally custodial
care are not included.  Rural hospitals, however, include health and redi-
GNP PER CAPITA (uS1) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medicrl as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);             sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accomodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                            provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of comercial energy                   fro  ho piteal  divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                  HOUSING
Averse. eise of hous hold (persons per bousebold) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                          A houhold consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population., id-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                 and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger my or my  not be included in
average of two end-year estimtes; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                          the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                   hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urbn areas my affect comparability                  Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average nun-
of data among countries.                                                              ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                      dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. ho. - Mid-year population per square kiloter (100 hectares)                   unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                      Access to electricity (Percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                 Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                 of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years ad over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
year population.                                                                  Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                 Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of a11 ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                     at the primry level as percentages of respertively primary  chbdol-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                 populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thoueand of                    different lengths of primry education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                  cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for met recent estiate,                     above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                  Secondary school - total, end female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960  nd 1970                 tion requires at least four years of approved primary instructio*, pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for met recent astiate.                          vides general vocational, or teecher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                 usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal roproductive period If she experiences preaent age-                     excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,               Vocational enrollment (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                       clude technical, industrial, or other progrms which operate independently
FMily planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual sumber of                       or ma departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family               Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                     primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of mrried women) - Percentage of                       sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control             Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                       a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                   CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                 Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food coweodities.                                   seating less than eight perann; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from               vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita            Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day. Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less              broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
experts, and changes in stock.  Net suppli   exclude  niml feed, seeds,             receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since mast countries
quiremedts were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-              abolished licensing.
al activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                 TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to generai
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                    tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day   Net supply of food is defined as                  tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimu  allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day end 20 grams                 be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.           Cinem annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 gras of total protein and                  sold during the year, including admissions to drive-it  cineman sod nobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                   units.
FAG in the Third World Food Survey.
Per oxpita. Protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food           D4PLOMN
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                 Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including arned
Child (ages 1-4) sertality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-               forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-                           -
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                            tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Fele labor force as percentage of total lsbnr force.
HEALTH                                                                               A4riculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hosting and fishing
Life eapectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                      as percentage of total labor for.e.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,               Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing a-d
and 1975.                                                                             electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rats (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                Participation rate (percent) - total, mle, and fe le - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                             female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, nd rural -                 These are  LO's adjusted participation retis reflecting age-sen
Number of pewple (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                  stroctore af the population. ond long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                  the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rae-                Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                 percent. richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                   of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Acce. to emcreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban. and               Estimated absolute poverty income level (USS per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excrete                    Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Exerete                     nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements in oct
disposal may include the collection sod disposal, with or without                     affordable.
tr-sr-est, of human excrete and waste-water by water-borne systems                 Eatitmaed relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the cue of pit privies and similar installations.                                  Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                    per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                    Estimated population below paverty incoe level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population p-r nursin  person - Population divided by number of                         Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                     "relative poor" whichever is greater.
ssistant nurses.
Economic and Socia Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Departnent



-23                                   ANNEX I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
CROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                         ANNUAL RATE OF CROWTH (2, constant prices)
USS Min.           X                                 1964-75           1976
CNP at Market Prices            687.8         100.0                                   6.5             0.9
Cross Domestic Investment       123.4           17.9                                 11.5           -38.5
Cross National Savings           60.0            J.7                                 14.n           -22.0
Current Account Balance        -63.4          --9.2
Exports of Goods, NFS           202.6          29.5                                   7.5             6.6
Imports of Goods, NFS          246.4           35.8                                   6.7           -18.7
OUTPUT, EMPLOYMENT AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                       Labor Force                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Ilin.    I                  Thousand                          T S$ -Win.~ 
Agriculture                     311.4     46.2                   1300         85.3                239.5        54.1
Industry                       121.5      18.P                     75          4.9               1620.0      .366.2
Services                       241.8      35.8                    150          9.9               1612.0       364.4
Total/Average             674.7    100.0                    1525        100.0               424 4        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Govern;ent
K  Mln              I of GDP
19  76%'   1975/76        1972/73-1974/75
Current Receipts                                      59.7         15.2             15.4
Current Expenditures                                  84.4         14.3             14.9
Current Surplus                                        5.3          0.9              0.5
Capital Expenditures                                  70.0         il.9              7.6
NOTE: All conversions to dollars In this Annex are at the avnrsge exchange rate prevailing during tihe period covered,
1/ Total labor force defited as male populatior between 15 and 60 years of .are plus women actually  uuplio-ed.
?/ Tle fiscal year la from April to liArch; the .DP Iaa ',ecn adjusted accordtnily.
not available
not appltcable



-24-                                      ANNEX I
CAnUrRY DATA - HALAWI
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                               1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977 June
(Million K outstanding end period)
Honey and Quaai Money                               62.9      86.6    115.7    122.4    121.0           146.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                        11.1      12.1     20.0      67.4      88.1          93.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                       35.6      33.0     49.4      56.1       76.5         89.2
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Honev And Qua8i Money as Z of GDP                   16.9      21.1      23.8      21.4      18.7
General Price Index (1970-100)                     112.1    117.5    134.6    150.5    163.8
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                  3.6       5.1      14.3      11.8       8.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                       136.2       9.0     65.3    237.0       30.7
bank Credit to Private Sector                        1.4      -7.3     49.7       13.6     36.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-1976)
US$ HMln 
1973     1974      1975      1976           Tobacco                     59.1      42.0
(millions US$)                      Tea                         24.9      17.7
Croundnuts                  8.7       6,2
Exports of Coods, NFS                 122A      151.7    179.4    202.6            Sugar                       14.7      10.4
Imports of Goods, NFS                 167.6    214.1    284.0    246.4             All Other Commodities    33.3         23.7
Resource Balance                      -45.5    -63.4   -104.6    -43.8                 Total                  140.7    100.0
Interest Payeents (net)                -3.6      -4.0      5.4      -5.5         EXTERNAL DEBT, DECFMBER 31. 1976
Other Factor Payments (net)             4.6      18.8     17.3    -14.2
Net Current Transfers                   7.1      .5.7       6.1      5.5                                                USSMln
Balance of Current Account            -37.4    -41.9    -86.6    -58.0
Public Debt,  ncl. guaranteed        258.1
Direct Private Foreign Investment   11.4         14.9      9.9       8.2            Non-guaranteed Privare Debt
Net MLT Borrowing                                                                  Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Disbursements                       25.8     37.4      42.3      34.0
Amortizations                        2.4      2.6       2.9       3.3         NET DEBT SERVTCE RATIO for 1976
Subtotal                            23.4     34.S      39.4      30.7                                                   2
Public Debt, incl. euaranteed          6.2
Other Capital (net)                    25.3       1.6    -17.9    -30.1            Won-Guaranteed Privatc Debt
Increase in Reserves (+)               33.3     16.4    -47.1    -38.3             Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Gross Renerves (end year)              66.7     81.8      65.5      26.2
Petroleum Imports                      11.2     17.9      22.9      26.1
Petroleumn Re-exports                   2.1      1.0        -         -
RtTE OF EXChANGE                                                                 I3PD/IDA LENDING,     (Aug. 31, 1978) (Mln US$)
1975   1976   Jan.-July 1977   July 1977                                                       IBFD  rDA
US$ - K            .S662  .9130        .9080           .8998                       t
XI  - US$         1.1545 1.0953       1.1013          1.1114                     Outsturaing t Disburad           25.0  43.0
Outatanding intl. Undiabursed    29.2  132.7
1/  LM}f, InLernational Ftnancial StAtistics, June 19;7
August 31, 1978



- 25 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1978)
Amount US$ Million
(less cancellations)
Bank incl.
Loan or                                                  Third
Credit No.   Year    Borrower         Purpose             Window      IDA   Undisbursed
Eight Credits have been fully disbursed                               58.0         -
282-MAI       1972   Republic of   Agriculture-
Malawi        Karonga                             6.6       0.4
S-17-MAI     1974                   Transport engineering              2.0        0.3
and Services
523-MAI      1975                   Second Highway                    10.0        3.8
550-MAI      1975                   Agriculture-                       8.5        2.0
Lilongwe III
590-MAI      1976                   Education II                      11.6       7.9
1286T-MAI    1976                   Agriculture-            9.2         -        5.0
Karonga II
1388-MAI     1977       "/ESCOM    Third Power              9.0                  8.9
1387-T-MAI      "       "                                   8.0                  7.9
691-MAI         "                                                      8.0       3.0
711-MAI      1977   Republic of   Water Supply                         7.0       7.0
Malawi
758-MAI      1977                   Third Highway            -        10.5       7.9
823-MAI       1978                  Shire Valley
Consolidation            -       10.7       10.7
1610-MAI     1979   INDEBANK        Investment and Develop-
ment Bank of Malawi/l  3.0        -          3.0
TOTAL                                 29.2     132.9       67.8
of which has been repaid                -        0.2
Amount sold .............               -
of which Repaid
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA /2   29.2       132.7
TOTAL Undisbursed                     24.8      43.0       67.8
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
B. Statement of IFC Investments in Malawi as at September 30, 1978
Investment Fiscal                  Type of                        Total Held   Total
Number    Year  Obligor         Business  Equity  Loan  Total   by IFC   Undisbursed
326 MAI    1976   David            Textiles    -      6.0    6.0    6.0          0.5
Whitehead
& Sons
(Malawi) Ltd.
362 MAI    1977   Dwangwa Sugar  Sugar         -      9.0    9.0    9.0          9.0
Corporation    processing
Limited
Total                             15.0   15.0   15.0          9.5
C. Bank Projects in Execution 1/
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 282-MAI   Agriculture - Karonga Development Project; US$6.6 Million
credit of January 26, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:
August 14, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Over 4 years (reduced from 5) the project would establish 1,000 acres
irrigated double cropped rice, 5,500 ac rainfed rice and improved cultivation
of maize, cotton and groundnuts on about 7,800 ac of existing smallholder
farms and livestock development. In addition it would provide for the con-
struction of a lake terminal, the provision of a barge, and extensions to a
district hospital and other health services.
Due to cost escalation the project period has been reduced from
five to four years. Only minor reductions of physical targets have occurred.
Completion of the irrigated double cropped rice scheme, reduced from 1,500
acres to 1,000 acres was delayed due to exceptional flooding. Extension and
research are progressing satisfactorily. All necessary staff for the health
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
in post and bilharzia control is now a continuous program. Lake transporta-
tion has been generally improved, and IDA has agreed to use project funds to
raise a jetty at Chilumba harbour by 2 feet to avoid flooding caused by high
tides. Design and tendering have been completed and construction is now
underway. The original closing date has been postponed by one year to
December 31, 1978 to allow sufficient time to complete these works. A Project
Completion Report is being completed.
Credit No. 550-MAI   Agriculture - Lilongwe Land Development Programme
Phase III; US$8.5 Million Credit of May 27, 1975; Date
of Effectiveness: August 12, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project will continue extension, farm credit and infrastructure
maintenance for previously established units and expand the program to cover
an additional 210,000 ac. The project will provide for the construction of
15 unit centers with associated investments; survey and demarcate about
200,000 ac; continue development of the Dzalanyama ranch; introduce poultry
and egg production and dairy development; expand and improve health facilities;
and carry out project evaluation and future project preparation. The project
infrastructure is now almost on schedule. Crop and livestock production in
the project area has increased although crop production has generally fallen
below the levels forecast at appraisal. Part of this has been due to a sudden
rise in fertilizer prices between 1973 and 1974 which for a time reduced fer-
tilizer use. Credit administration and loan repayments continue to be out-
standing. A consolidation phase of the project is part of the proposed
project.
Loan No. 1286-T-MAI   Second Karonga Rural Development Project; US$9.2 Million
Loan of June 24, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 18,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The project, financed on Third Window terms, consists of the provi-
sion of seasonal and medium-term credit to farmers, extension service, market
complexes, health facilities, boreholes and other infrastructural facilities,
agricultural and hydrological research, preparatory investments for the
National Rural Development Programme, and rehabilitation of berthing facil-
ities at Chipoka Lake terminal. Reconstruction of Chipoka harbor has started.
Although understaffing hampers implementation efficiency in some parts of
Chitipa district and there have been small cost increases, the project's
progress is satisfactory.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 823-MAI   Shire Valley Agricultural Development Project;  US$10.7
Million Credit of July 7, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
September 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project is the consolidation phase of the Shire Valley Agri-
cultural Development Programme and includes extension services, seed multi-
plication and afforestation programs, production credit, livestock and
fisheries development, health and potable water supply facilities, a small-
holder irrigation development study and some rural roads. It would provide
social and infrastructural services to about 70,000 families. The IDA credit
was signed on July 7, 1978.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 590-MAI   Second Education Project; US$11.6 Million Credit of
November 24, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: February 24,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The project will provide prototype construction models of primary
schools, strengthen the program of rural education, establish a new primary
teacher training college and add facilities for the teaching of practical
subjects in selected secondary schools, with emphasis on facilities for
girls. Its implementation is proceeding satisfactorily and construction
contracts have been awarded for 24 of the 31 project institutions, which
represents about 90 percent of the construction program. Contracts have been
awarded for the supply of nearly all furniture and equipment. Savings of
about US$1.5 million expected under the project will be utilized in financing
additional teacher training and students testing facilities. The project is
expected to be completed as originally anticipated.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1610-MAI    Investment and Development Bank of Malawi Limited;
US$3.0 Million Credit of July 7, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: November 1, 1978;
Closing Date: July 1, 1983
The Project seeks to assist the growth of medium- to large-scale
enterprises in Malawi by providing funds to the Investment and Development
Bank of Malawi (INDEBANK), for financing the foreign exchange component of
industrial projects. It will also seek to improve the operational policies
of INDEBANK and, through IFC's representation on the institution's board,
to provide technical advice to INDEBANK's management. It will create an
estimated 1,100 new jobs. The loan was signed on July 7, 1978.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
PUBLIC UTILITIES SECTOR
Loans No. 1388-MAI    Third Power Project; US$25.0 Million Loans and Credit
and 1007-T-MAI         of April 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  November 11,
Credit 691-MAI         1977; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
The project will assist ESCOM in financing its investment program
to meet increased demand for power. The project consists of a rock-fill dam
on the Shire River at Nkula, a pressure cut and cover conduit, head-race
tunnel, penstock and tailrace outlet system, and a power house for five 18 MW
hydro units, two of which will be installed at this stage. The project also
provides for consulting services and training. Bid results have shown that
the project cost will be within the appraisal estimate. Civil works contracts
have been awarded since April 1977, and the contractors are now proceeding
with the preparation of construction works. The Government has recently
advertised for replacements for the incumbent Chief Engineer and General
Manager, who will retire this year. The Bank is informally attempting to
assist the Government in locating suitable candidates.
Credit No. 711-MAI   Blantyre Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit
of June 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: April 18, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The project will assist the Blantyre Water Board in financing phase
five of its development program. It will increase the capacity of the water
supply facilities at Walker's Ferry on the Shire River and bring the existing
pipeline, between the intake station and Blantyre, to its maximum capacity.
In addition, the project will provide improvements to the distribution system
in the Blantyre area, and extend service to squatter areas. No cost increases
are provided for consulting services and training. Its implementation is on
schedule.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. S-17-MAI   Transport Engineering and Services Project; US$2.0
Million Credit of June 13, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 28, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project will help determine the infrastructural requirements
and provide technical assistance for the exploitation of the Viphya forest
resources. Necessary transportation studies and the design of the required
transport facilities have been completed. Part of the credit proceeds that
are still available are being used to finance consulting services to update
prior studies and to assist in putting together a financial package for
the proposed mill. The Closing Date was recently extended by one year to
June 30, 1979.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 523-MAI   Second Highway Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of
December 19, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: February 21,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of (i) reconstruction to two-lane bituminous
paved standard of the Lilongwe-Kasungu road (about 73 miles), including
bypass around the Lilongwe industrial area and reconstruction of the Ligadzi
bridge; and (ii) a pilot program to improve the development and maintenance
of district roads. Construction works for the main road, are substantially
complete and savings of approximately US$3.5 million are currently expected
for this project component. Results from the pilot program for district roads
improvement and maintenance indicate clearly that the program has been suc-
cessful and that it is feasible to extend it to other districts. The savings
from the reconstruction component are being used to extend the pilot program
to seven additional districts. The Closing Date was recently extended by four
years to June 30, 1982.
Credit No. 758-MAI   Third Highway Project; US$10.5 Million Credit of
January 18, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 29, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of (a) constructing the 53-mile Kasungu-Jenda
road to two-lane bituminous surfaced standard, (b) strengthening three short
sections of the Zomba-Lilongwe road and (c) providing consultant services
for the supervision of (a) and (b) and for the feasibility and engineering
studies of the Jenda-Mzuzu road. The credit was declared effective on
June 29, 1978. Work is in progress on all components except (b), for which
tenders will be called shortly.
D. Existing IFC Investments 1/
David Whitehead and Sons (Malawi) Limited, 326 MAI, Textiles
The IFC investment helped the company finance a major expansion
of its fully integrated textile mill at Blantyre. The project was completed
in January 1978, some three months ahead of schedule and within original
budget. The company's financial results are satisfactory and in line with
IFC's earlier predictions.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Board of Directors of the
status of the existing projects and to report upon problems
which are being encountered and of action being taken to remedy
such problems. These notes are not comprehensive nor are they
intended to present a balanced evaluation of each investment.



- 31-
ANNEX II
Dwangwa Sugar Corporation Limited, 362 MAI, Sugar Processing
The IFC investment is to help finance the development of a 13,188-
acre sugar estate and a factory to produce 67,000 metric tons per year of
sugar for both domestic and export markets. The project is now under con-
struction and at this stage commercial operations are expected to commence
on schedule in June 1979.
Investment and Development Bank of Malawi Limited
IFC will provide both financial assistance to support the Investment
and Development Bank of Malawi (INDEBANK) as well as technical assistance to
its management by being represented on INDEBANK's Board of Directors. The IFC
investment is expected to be committed shortly.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE I PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.   Timetable and Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare                      4 years
(b)  Prepared by                                GOM in consultation with IDA
(c)  Initial Discussions with IDA               During sector mission in 1973
(d)  First Bank mission                         November 1973
(e)  Appraisal mission departure                November 1977
(f)  Negotiation                                October 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness              March 1979
II. Special IDA Implementation Action
The project will require close supervision in view of its innovative
nature and large number of components.
III. Special Conditions of IDA Credit
(a)  Government will assume an increasing share of project
operating costs of essential services. In the case of
the LLDP, it would meet 80 percent of these costs by
the fifth year, while in the case of the Lilongwe
ADD Management Unit and Thiwi-Lifidzi, Ntcheu and
Mzimba DAs, Government will have taken over 20 percent
of the cost of the essential services by the fifth
year according to an agreed schedule (para. 68).
(b)  Government will carry out within one year of project
commencement, a study to examine and make recommendations
on the present staffing levels and work programs of MANR
to improve the agricultural extension service; it will
be carried out by consultants appointed in consultation
with IDA and with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA
and, within six months of completion, Government would
discuss with IDA the implementation of the report's
conclusions (para. 41).



- 33 -
ANNEX III
(c) A study on the role of agricultural credit in Malawi
will be carried out by July 31, 1980; its recommendations
would be discussed with IDA (para. 41).
(d) The Ministry of Works will assume responsibility for
maintaining those roads which will fall within the
Ministry's gazetted responsibility as soon as the
Project's Road Construction Unit has completed them.
District Councils which have adequate maintenance
capacity will assume responsibility for district roads
*                   when the roads have been completed.  In cases where
District Councils lack the required capacity the Min-
istry of Works will assume responsibility for mainte-
nance at project completion until the District Councils
in question have developed the necessary capacity
(para. 56).
(e) Government would establish a committee consisting
of representatives from Treasury, MANR, ADMARC, and the
Economic Planning Division of the Office of the President
and the Cabinet which would review prices once each
year. The committee would prepare a report, recording
the views of all members, as well as recommendations
for consideration by the Minister for Agriculture and
National Resources. Within 18 months of Project
commencement, Government will review marketing and
pricing policies with IDA and will prepare a report
defining the marketing and pricing criteria and policies
Government proposes to adopt in the future (para. 62).
(f) The pricing committee would review annually as part of
its price and marketing analysis, the production targets
and achievements of NRDP. It will comment on the
efficacy of its pricing policies in meeting these
targets and would comment to IDA on this matter (para.
62).
(g)  Government will prepare and submit to IDA for comments
by the end of September 1979., a report on the budgetary
implications of its national development programme and
the measures it proposes to follow to insure the prog-
ress and viability of the programme (para. 68).
4.   Conditions of Effectiveness and Disbursements of the IDA Credit
A special condition of the effectiveness of the IDA credit would
be that (a) the Borrower shall have obtained the UK and EDF grants and all
conditions for the initial disbursement thereof, if any, (except for the
effectiveness of draft Development Credit Agreement) have been fulfilled,



- 34 -
ANNEX III
and (b) all conditions to the effectiveness of the Canadian Grant Agreement
(except for the effectiveness of the draft Development Credit Agreement)
have been fulfilled (para. 52). Conditions for disbursement are that dis-
bursements will not be made for the (i) studies to be undertaken under the
project until the Borrower shall have employed consultants for such studies
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (para. 71); and
(ii) Dzalanyama Ranch component of the Project, until the Borrower shall have
adjusted producer meat prices sufficiently to enable the ranch to attain a
positive cash flow (para. 62).
V.   Special Conditions of the IDA-Administered CIDA Grant
A special condition of the effectiveness of the CIDA Grant Agreement
to be administered by IDA would be that all conditions to the effectiveness
of the proposed IDA credit except for the effectiveness of the Grant Agreement
have been fulfilled (para. 52).



IBRD 1'3395R
32t                35' R   ,;  >,            >                      -            -OCTOBEiR 17
-.z  .   ;--   .                       Mt -, -^   -  . AALAWI
TIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM,
PHASE I
-  - g    t;--d M>X, ,A l   a~~~~~~~~~~~Ze  -TO- -4
TO Of          P TA2(ONOEf   CT
-f  tJ  -  t g  X -   z         S~~~~~~~MI"                       TK AGNO N t FINANOAL ASSISTANC
-                      TU~~~~1TOMV
Nl==fAtAOXvR1 FIDA FtAL tAOSSITANCE
/  _   /     )  r _WS7  Rurwe;             ,.r               ItIN~~~~~~~~~~N" REAS 0TFtEi AO9N0bESAWVSANMl
- . \ A XPsAS +--- 'f3MzimbaX ,/ / 2s, s f ~~~~~~~~~~RAILWAYS
ILND
-O>-  -/ <'ZAM B IQ U E
.g,   y  ' , -S--bE40      S \X/s           S \K, -
4_ \ < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r t Xf  ,
3    .   .,          SY   t s (  \ % +.;                                          . &<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E .F
,0hAN.YR > > t S -84 os t -~~~~~~~~~NTY
't-                                                                             "' :''Y~~~~~~~W
'1 _ ,, :.A.^. ..
W>', ( ,,,w',-,i," ,ffi',\ ' ' ' '.
2 > M ti ,_ t f , ,, Xc d~~~~~~~~~ER






IBRD 13396
APRIL 1978
MALAWI
f-f-                    NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM, PHASE I
4d/1 tS                      LILONGWE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT DIVISION
CHIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
K                     j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LO
jf~~ ~~~ ,,)A ,zo/anyam
r/t,'ts    2  %.   _       )                                                                       4                  i D[S 
o 5   10   15    20    2           A anch
MILES                                       New Development Areas
0      10      20      30     40                          Area in Final Consolidation Phase
KILOMETERS                                     Ste of Management Unit
M    Development Area Hedquarters 
Development Area Boundaries                               CHEU
X t .                   ,~ *                 Ecological Planning Area Headquarters    -          (  *
<  ,-\  EI j      -                                        Future Development Areas                                   *1.
Main Roads                                                                    /
> < D / .t {)                                         Secondary Roads                            c                        JAW )             lshio
?' \N                                                  District Roads                              rn
%   - EI I'                                      Ranches
Railways
,. \i,)\               (>'-t                    Rivers
'   -. -   Internotional Boundaries
°e,     5>, t;t sn                                  --ADD Boundaries
se, (.       j.(                             -    -   District Boundaries
°&       e  o-  -Regional Boundaries
011  .    E bA    hr Al m.  do noA,h,  m th  the Wlf A./A .dd ,
b,,,v.,..*b,btb,,p*b,Tb,= YAwzsATAn.hbdt<fl ofWAdoiA hA. .A
ccAA,.  f   J..  A b$odbT S Ani. As rtAb   bAb.A,Ab






IBRD 13397
APRIL 1978
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM, PHASE I
MUZUZU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT DIVISION
INS   N. -
> I Jf4WENL Q \ \ >BW
A/ I--
New Development Areas
i* te of Manogement Unit
' )    }'..s       ESWANZtNI                                                                        Development Area Headquorters
Development Area Boundaries
A   CIhintheeh ~      S     Ecological Planning Area Headquarters
Main Roads
} y   MZIAMBA4  of g          9            a    Xz           sSecondory Roods
…District Roads
-   Rivers
>Edinqeni /             2            /            >                         N            -       -   District Boundaries
-   ADD  Boundaries
( -   International Boundaries
b  X     J   > r                   et-                O~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5  10  15  20  25* 
MILES
.      1O       20    30      40                     .  
KILOMETERS-4 -
AREA
<            oo ~~~Thno inK hon bhee pnpaedr ofhe  e      0
Wol/d B-k eteff .eWWY elr. ny            Al
th/ er,npfwneen   of uti hrad.i,  vffo
=htw o,vh.e lenSd.fh
2                                        0   "~mt 
-ny tenitny en ay edoremn --- 
-- nepeen-  of.sh heodene..  1 -



