Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2075-,iAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOP4ENT PR0tRMUR   (NRDP, PHASE I PROJECT
November 13, 1978
Southern Agriculture Division
Eastern Africa Projects Department
This documet has a nsttctled dhtIo  aM mnay be ud by rec4puts oWy in &e performnne of
thdir odi  idutis. Its coeuts may not dherwise be discosed widtnA Wse  Bank adtioka±iin



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           -  Mala-ai Kwacha (MK)   100 Tambala (t)
US$1.00                 =   RK 0.83
MK 1.00                 -  US$ 1.20
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 lb.                   3  0.453 kg
I sh. ton                  2,000 lb   0.9072 m. ton
I acre                  -  0.405 h
1 sq. mile                 2.59 km
1 bag maize                200 lb
I bag fertilizer           110 lb
i ie                      1.6 km
1 gallon                   4.546 liters
A-BBREVIATIONS
ADD               Agricultural Development Division
ADF            =  African Development Fuia
ADMARC            Agricultural Development & Marketing Corporation
CADO           -  Chief Agricultural Development Officer
CIDA               Canadian International Development Agency
CSC            -  Ccld Storage Company
DA                Development Area
DDO                Divisional Development Officer
EDF            =  European Development Fund
EPA               Ecological Planning Area
FRG            -  Federal Republic of Germany
INDEBANK       -  Investment and Develcpment Bank of Malawi
KRDP I1            Karonga Rural Oevelopment Project - Phase II
TLDP              Lilongwe Land Development Project
LRDP           -  Lakeshore Rural Development Project
MANR           -  Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MOW            -  Ministry of Works and Supplies
M              -  Management Unit
NRDP           -  National Rural Development Program
NSSA           = National Sa=ple Survey of Agriculture
TA                Technical Assistant
TO                Technical Officer
SVAD?          -  Shire Valley Agricultural Development Program
UK             -  United Kingdom
USAID              United States Agency for Lnternatioral Development
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE I PRxOJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ...............................1. 
A.   Backgrouad ...................1...................               I
B.   Agricultural Production ............................             I
Smallholder Production ..                                 2
Livestock ..............................3......            3
C.   Implementation of Existing Major Projects ..........             4
General .......................................           4
Lilongwe Land Development (LLDP).                         4
Shire Valley Agricultural Development (SVADP)
and Karonga Rural Development (KRDP) .........           6
D.   Government Agricultural Services ...................             7
E.   Credit Services ..........................,..,                   7
I_.  THE NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM:  CONCEPT,
OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY ...............................               8
III.   THE PROJECT ..       ..                ................               10
A.   General Description. .       ......................       .     10
B. The Project Area .13
C. Detailed Features .13
Central Services ..............................    13
Management Unit Headquarters (MUs) ............    15
Developmen,t Areas ......................                16
Lilongwe Ccnsolidation Phase .17
D. Project Costs .18
E.  Financing ....................                                   20
F.  Procurement ..                           I ................  22
G.  Disbursements .....   .............. -   22
H.  Accounts, Audits and Reports ......                              24
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..........................               24
A.   Field Services .....................          .    . ...    25
B.   Central Services and Training ......................    26
This repert is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Malawi in November 1977, composed of Messrs. J. Peberdy, W. Stolber,
A. Sidhu, R. Ranasinghe, Ms. K. Hashimoto (IDA), and Mr. R. Spooner
(Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World bank authorizatioa.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                        Page No.
V.  CR:'P AND LIVESTOCK TECINICAL DATA AND PRODUCTTON ........   29
A.  Crops . .............................................   29
B.  Livesteck ..........................................   32
VI.  MARKETS A1-D PRICES ....................                      34
VII.   ECONOMIC BEYEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....................    36
Vill.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMIXENDATIONS ..........................    39
ANNEX 1.  Supporting Tables and Charts
TABLES
T-1  Project Cost Estimaces by Years and Estimate of Government
Operating Costs on Revenue Account
T-2  Projected Credit Fund - IDA Development Areas
T-3  Total and Increnental Production
T-4  Comparative Gross Margins of Crops at Lilongwe & Mzimba
T-5  Farm Budgets - Lilongwe Land Development Project
T-6  Cost and Benefit in the Economic Analysis of the IDA Components
T-7  Project Cash Flow
ANNEX 2   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
C-1 Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources Organogram (IBRD 18661)
C-2 Agricultural Deveiopment Division and Development Area
Organization Chart (IBRD 18878)
MAPS
NRDP Development Program - Phase 1 (IBRD 13395)
Lilongwe Agricultural Development Division (IBRD 13396)
Mzll'tu Agricultural Development Division (IBRD 13397)



4ALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVFLOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE I PROJECT
1. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.  Background
1.01      Malawi has a total area of 45,700 sq. miles of which 9,200 sq. miles
is lake surface.  The land area consists of three topographically different
regions - the northern mountainous region, the central plateau, and the
southern lowlands.  Soils are relatively fertile, and the fairly reliable
rainfall permits the cultivation of a variety of focd and cash crops.  Agri--
culture is the most important sector of the Malawi economy, as i.t employs
85% of the population and contributes about 46 percent of GDP (1975/76).  mne
real annual growth of the agricultural sector between 1971 and 1976 was 5/..
In 1976 agriculture accounted for US$142 million or 94 percent of export
earnings; these were derived mainly from tobacco (48 percent of agricultural
exports), tea (20 percent), sugar (13 percent), groundnuts (8 percent),
and other crops (11 percenL).
1.02      The population of Malawi was estimated at 5.2 million in 1976, and
the annual population growth rate is about 2.6%. The country's average pop-
ulation density, 143 per sq. mile of land, is one of the highest in Africa; it
varies from 61 persons per sq. mile in the north to 217 persons per sq. mile
in the south of the country. About 82 percent of the total area is held under
customary tenure, about 2 percent under freehold or leasehold, and 16 percent
is held in public land; -he average customary holding is about 4 acres. Over
the past decade increased food requirements for the expanding population have
been met for the most part through expansion in cultivated area. This has
mea.at that land more susceptible to erosion has been cultivated and that
fallow periods have been reduced. Consequently, land conservation and main-
tenance of soil fertility through the introduction of improved techniques and
inputs has become increasir7ly important.
B. Agricultural Production
1.03      Smallhsiders account for over 85 percent of all agricultu-ral produc-
tion. Maize is by far the most important crop, occupying nearly 80 percent of
all cultivated land; other major food crops are pulses, groundnuts and cassava,
rice, sorghum and wheat are also grown. The main smallholder cash crops are
fire-cured tobacco, groundnuts, rice, cotton, pulses and maize; the export
value of these crops in 1976 totalled WK 49.4 million (US$59.5 million), or 37
percent of total export earnings from agriculture. Estates a-count for the
remaining 15 percent of total agricultural production and over 60 percent of
agricultural exports (mainly tea and tobacco); the total value of exports from
this source was estimated at MK 80 million (US$96.0 million) in 1976.



- 7 -
1.04      Government's aim has been to maintain self-sufficiency in food
staples, expand agricultural exports significantly and improve rural incomes.
Given the limitation on high quality land available for new cultivation, and
the increasingly high cost of reclamation on marginal lands or lands exhausted
by continuous cultivation, the main emphasis o  eurrent agricultural policy
is on a sustained rise in productivity per acre.  It has attempted to provide
a growth climate fcr both smallholder and estate production.
Smallholder Production
1.05      Improvements in smallholder productivity have been sought through
two different approaches.  The more general approach has conzentrated on a
gradual improvement of extension, land husbandrv and farmer traininlg ser-
vices throughout the country; these efforts have been supported by small,
low-cost rural development projects and by special activities and programs
such as ox-training, dairy improvement, and tea development (usually fuinded
by the UK or by UNDP).  The second approach has been based on the introduc-
tion since 1968/69 of cotusiderably more expensiv.e and management intensive
integrated development programs in four spec:fic areas.  These are:  the
Lilongwe Land Development Projects (LLDP - I, II and III, TDA Credits 113,
244 and 550), Shire Valley (SVADP I and II, and the Consolidation Phase III,
IDA Credits 114, 363, and 1945), Karonga (KRDP I and TI, IDA Credit 282, and
Third Window Loan 1286), and the Lakeshore Rural Development Project (LRDP),
formerly f~'uEd by the Federal Republic of Germany (1968-74) and now assisted
by the Europeani Development Fund (EDF). All of the above programs are charac-
terized by the provision of infrastructure (roads, markets, water and health
facilities, etc.), institution of land improvement and conservation measures,
improved extension and other services, and provision of credit facilities.
These four comprehensive programs - which are concentrated in the more densely
populated areas - cover areas with one million persons, or 20 percent of
Malawi's population.  The total project cost of the IDA projects is MK 66.5
million (US$78.2 million) (Lilongwe I, II and II 1968-78, US$27.g million;
Shire I, 11 and III 1968-82, US$30.7 million; and Karonga I and II 1971-80,
US$19.9 million). The Lakeshore Project has cost at least MK 8 million
(US$8.8 mi;lion) since 1968.
1.06      Despite this emphasis over the last ten years, the increases in
smallholder marketed production have been disappointing both nationally and
on a project basis.  Between 1971 and 1976 the value of smallholder production
grew at about 4.5 percent per annum compared with 11.1 percent per annum in
the estate sector. The reasons for this slow grcwth are both varied and
speculative.  Despite a good market potential for certain types of tobacco,
tobacco production has major obstacles which limit production.  Dark fired
tobacco is the major smallholder cash crop (20,900 sh. tons) and is controlled
by quotas and the limited world market. Growth of oriental tobacco production
(295 sh. tons) has been limited by the time needed to learn the husbandry and
has also suffered frem low prices in the past.  Because of better returns
per man day and opportunities for village sales, farmers have usually given
priority to maize over cotton and groundnuts.  The high and tedious labor
requirements of the coiamonly grown Chalimbana variety of groundnuts together
with limited potential for expanding yields through better husbandry has



- 3 -
probably limited production; however, the new Manipintar groundnut variety,
which can be sold to the Agricultural Developmenr and Ma.'e.ing Corp-ra io
(ADMARC) in the shell, has expanded.  The high risks and low prices for pulses
have meant that pulse production has stagnated.
1.07      The Government's producer and consumer pricing poilcies togethler
with the need to help finance ADMARC's development program may also be DartlV
responsible for the slow growth of major agricultural crops- The parastatal
marketing agency ADMARC has the dual tasks of marketing smaliholder produce
and establishing and developing agricultural and agro-industrial en.erprises
for the benefit of the country.  In 1968, ADMARC made an overall loss on its
crop trading.  Since then, from roughly the same crop volure, it has built up
its profit on crop trading account to between 22 and 30% of gross crop sales;
at the direction of Goverament, these profits are invested by GDMARC in stores.
fertitizer subsidies, and seed production that benelit smallholders, new Crop
development, estates, agro-industries and industrial development.  At ths same
time ADMARC has managed to increase producer prices annually, establish a crop
price stabilization fund of MK 8.0 million (US$9.6 m) and a Strategic maize
reserve of 80,000 tons.  Payments to producers increased from fX 10.0) million
in 1970 (gross sales val-ue MK 18.0 million) to MK 23 million in 1977 (gross
sales value MK 57 million). Profits on the crop trading account which rose
gradually from MK 3.9 million in 1970 to WK 10.0 million ir 1975, jumped
sharply to MK 22.0 m.llion in 1977 as a result of the big increase in world
tobacco prices.  Up to 1975 tobacco was responsible for about 50% of ADMARC's
crop trading profit while cotton and groundnuts provided the remainder.
Because of low consumer prices for maize and general produce and low export
prices for rice a loss or a little profit is usually made from these crops.
Profit during this period from cotton and groundntuts as a percentage of the
amounts paid to the producer varied from 32 to 92% averaging 61% for cotton
and 42% for groundnuts.  Increased payments to tobacco farmers growing fire-
cured tobacco would not have affected production because of quotas, but
increased payouts to cotton, oriental tobacco and groundnut producers might.
Livestock
1.08      in 1976 the livestock population consisted of 728,000 cattle (with
2,000 grade dairy animals), 768,000 goats, 185,000 pigs and 91.000 sheep.
The naticnal dipping program has increased cattle herd growth to over 57 per
annum. Fa,mers like to retain their breeding animals and overstocking in a
few areas is becoming noticeable.  With an annual takeoff of 9 to 10 percent,
seasonal shortages of meat in the rural areas have occurred. The most succes-
sful beef development has been the expansion of the stallfeeder scheme whereby
smallholders fatten steers, provided to them on credit, with crop by-products.
The Malawi goat is an important source of meat as are the pigs which are found
in some villages.  Poultry keeping is popular in the villages.  But most of
the organized pig and poultry production is in the hands of large commercial
producers who keep the urban markets fully supplied. Commencing in 1966
Malawi has made impressive progress in the dairy sector.  Based on half bred



- 4 -
Friesian!Malawi zebu dairy cattle it has established artificial insemination,
milk collection, cocling centers, processing and distribution facilities.
iiLk collectior. now totals 2,200 gallon/day from over 1,000 producing units,
the vast majority smallholders. Combined with another 600 gallons from other
sources production is now equivalent to about 12.5% of total commercial
imports.
C.  Implementation of Existing Major Rural Development Projects
General
1.09      Implementation of all the major rural development projects in Malawi
has been good_ Although there have been some delays with certain compornents,
the development of the physical aspects of the projects such as construction
of buildings, roads, boreholes and markets have usually been completed by
original target dates and within the total project estimates. The appoint-
ment of properly qualified staff has probably been the main difficulty.
Because the supply of local trained manpower has not been able to meet the
demands of the expanding agricultural sector projects have eaployed a high
proportion of expatriate professional staff. The Projects are popular with
farmers, and all farming communities where the projects operate show visible
signs of betterment compared with areas outside, although areas immediately
3djacent also show improvements (neater housing, tidier and better managed
holdings, ox carts and an increased sense of industry). In project areas
where seasonal food shortages occurred there have been significant improve-
ments in subsistence crop production. Production increases, however, have
not been as large as projected at appraisal. This might be due partly to
preoccupation of management in establishing the ph7sical structures of the
project and weaknesses in extension organization and the systems used.
Liiongwp Land Development Project (LLDP)
1.10      The original plan for LLDP in 1968 envisaged a 13-year development
program for 500,000 acres costing US$21.2 million. Physical developments
would be completed in nine years and extension work, provision of farm
inputs and land registration would continue into year 13. In 1971 the area
was extended to 1.2 million acres with 860,000 acres occupied by smallholders
(101,000 families in 1977), 161,000 acres to be developed as a ranch and
the remainder as fGrest reserve. The first phase, 1968-71, exceeded targets,
developing 14 unit centers 1/, 642 miles crop extraction roads, 232 boreholes,
11 permanent markets (infrastructure for 276,800 acres compared to the 163,000
acres planned). The second phase, 1971-75, provided for a further 11 unit
centers and 5 modified input units and markets, 600 miles of crop extraction
1/   The area to be developec was divided into development units of approxi-
mately 20,000 acres, laLer some larger modified unit centers were
developed for some areas.



roads plus 25 water points (infrastructure for 375,000 acres compared with
356,000 acres at appraisal) and the commencement of the development of
Dzalanyama ranch. By April 1978, 10 years after the project commenced,
Phase III completed the physical structures (with the exception of a little
construction work) for the remaining 210 000 acres bringing the total number
of units developed to 40 covering 860,000 acres. Implementation of the
Land survey and registration remaining wi#l be completed in the next five
years, within the time frame set originally (taking into account the increase
in area). The fourth, or Consolidation Phase, involves the completion of the
extension and credit development effort commenced in Phase III. Taking into
account the increase in area and the rate of inflation the program will have
been completed within the time frame and finance originally estimated.
1.11      Production increases have been difficult to establish even though
LLDP was among the first IDA financed projects to establish an evaluation
unit. Evaluation unit data show that incremental production has fallen far
short of targets (in 1976/77 reaching 41% for maize, 31% for groundnuts and
18% for tobacco). The determination of base liite figures has been a problem.
Marketed surpluses of maize and groundnuts represent only a small proportion
of marketed production.  Local sales fetch prices 30 to 60% above ADMARC
prices. Opportunities for local sales have expanded with the rapid develop-
ment of Lilongwe township (115,000 people growing at 15% per annum) and over
the border w1th Mozambique and Zambia.  In the evaluation of project incre-
mental benefits the evaluation unit has taken yields from "undeveloped" units
as their baseline in any one year and compcred them with yields from the
"developed" units, yet it is fair to say that the neighboring undeveloped
units have been affected by the project as it has progressed (particularly
with better husbandry ard fertilizers on tobacco and maize). Two "undeveloped"
units which have only just been absorbed into LLDP have the best groundnut
soils and this has also affected baseline groundnut yields. The evaluation
figures for incremental production must therefore be treated cautiously
although in the case of maize, th? evaluation unit estimates of total produc-
tion achieved through sampling are close to estimates made by making assump-
tions based on fertilizer sold, surplus maize purchased and family consumption.
The farmers' maize and tobacco input packages have been successful, producing
expected yields when applied as directed (para. 5.02); however, farmers have
not always followed spacing and fertiliz-r recommendations. The sulphur
package for groundauts has been stopped as uneconomic and increased yields are
dependent on improved seed and cultivation (para. 5.02).
1.12      The Project and Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) for Phases I
and II 1/ "considered the Project to be successful but more so with respect
to changes and innovations introduced to the farmers and on Government poli-
cies and services than with respect to the original productivity objectives."
The PPAR of II noted that while the numbers of adopters of the new packages
I/   Project Performance Audit Report No, 751-MAI (Credit 113-MAI) May 23,
1975, and Project Performance Audit Report No. 1597-MAI (Credit 244-MAI)
May 17, 1977.



might be on target, the degree to which they adopted the new packages over
.'  their land was muich less than expected so that the overall average yield
improvement was much less than expected.  It noted, however, that none of thle
information on yields, production and sales adequately measured the output
ertects of the obvious improvements in crop husbandry, improvements in labor
productlvity, expansion in acreage or changes in enterprise mix (in addition
to the major crops), increased farm consumption, new shops and other rural
non-farm investments and experience in administrating rural programs.  Because
of the possi-ble underestimation of evaluation unit data the PPAR did not
attempt a definitive rate of return on Phases I and II. However, it cal-
culated an IRR on the basis that the number of adopters reached appraisal
targets, but that yields were two thirds of appraisal targets and some
benefits were given to smuggled maize. On this basis the rate of return fell
from the appraisal figure of 13% to about 8%.
1.13      This appraisal of the consolidation phase has encountered the same
i.roblems. Although incremental production is increasing, the evaluation
estimates of incremental production have not reached the two thirds level that
would give an 8A return.  The appraisal mission is a±so reluctant to quote a
definitive figure on Phases 1, II and III. Any attempt must depend on subjec-
tive judgments.  Using the evaluation figures of in:remental production, and
assuming that Government would need to maintair the level of expenditure for
services it now meets on its revenue (recurrent) a ount to maintain this
incremental production, it is estimated that the rate of return for these
three phases would fall to minus 2 percent (para. 7.06).  However, in 1967/78
the appraisal team estimated that tobacco yields were about 200 lb/acre
'ADMA_RC records indicate a figure nearer 250 lb/acre but that refers only to
registered growers) and by 1970 yields had risen in both the developed and
undeveloped units of the Lilongwe Project Area to 350 lb/acre. Because of
evaluation methods none of this general increase has been credited to the
Lilongwe project; yet it is certain that project activity at the time, albeit
jin a restricted area, must have had a profound effect on neighboring areas
encouraging them to apply fertilizer to what was obviously the most profitable
crop at the time. Similarly, and especially with alternative attractions in
the expanding city of Lilongwe, maize yield levels would have declined over
the past ten years without the project since fa.-mers would not have applied
fertilizers or rotated crops to the extent they do today, or utilize as fully
the manure frem the increasing cattle herd which in turn is producing more
manure as animals are more often stallfed or kept in kraals.
Shire Valley Agricultural Development Project (SVADP) and
Karonga Rural Development Project (KRDP)
1.14      The Shire Project has successfully increased farmers' cotton yields.
Phase I met farmer acceptance targets.  Unfortunately, drought con-ditions in
1974/75 and 1975/76 seriously affected expansion of the second phase cotton
production. To a lesser extent, food crop yields have also improved compared
to what they wGuld have been without a project if the increases in the albeit
small sales of pulses, paddy and maize to ADMARC stores are any indication.
A third phase of Shire was approved by the Board on June 6, 1978. The PPAR of



- 7 -
the first phase considered the project to be well conceived, effectively
implemented and generally successful. A completion report on the second phase
is being prepared. Imp'lementation of the Karonga project has been generally
successful although there have been:  shortages of staff, difficulties over
the construction -f the jetty and supply of the barge for lake transport,
shortages of settlers for the irrigated rice component, and cost overruns,
especially fcr the irrigation scheme which w- ; four times costlier than
expected.  After a slow start incremental pro_crion of maize has exceeded
targets and is 90% of target for rainfed rice while falling short for cotton
and groundnuts; the latter mainly a reflection of pricing incent ves.  However,
at Karonga .he slow attainment of production levels, high initial expenditure
and irrigation cost overrans have reduced the expected rate of return of
12%.  A Completion Report on the first phase has been prepared.
D. Government Agricultural Services
1.15      The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources' major activity
is the provision of services to the agricultural sectcr. It is also respon-
sible for Fisheries, Water Resources, National Parks, Geological Surveys and
Forestry. There are two Deputy Secretaries one of whom is responsible for
the implementation of the agricultural program which operates through four
departments: Extension and Trainiag (which provides farmer services through-
out the country), Animal Health, Research (with particular specialization in
agricultural economics, cattle breeding and pasture improvement), and Tech-
nical Services (which supervises lar' use planning, settlement schemes and
irrigation programs) (Chart C-1).
1.16      The Ministry of Agriculture also exercises general supervision
over the activities of the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
(ADMARC). This agency has the dual tasks of marketing smallholder produce
and establishing and developing agriculture and agro-industrial enterprises.
In addition, ADMARC implemenzs Government's price policy and supplies inputs
to smallholders. Commodity prices are established by ADMARC (with the approval
of the Minister of Agricultkire) and its official price list includes most cash
and subsistence crops. It maintains 52 main storage depots, and over 700
temporary produce buying stations; in addition it operates tobacco and ground-
nut grading centers and seed production farms.
E. Credit Services
1.17      There is no central agricultural credit institution in Malawi.  Small
farmers have access to seasonal and medium term agricultural credit through
the following Government sources: (a) MANR's four major agricultural Frojects:
LLDP, KRDP, SVADP and LRDP; (b) the Government's Loans Board; (a Department of
the Ministry of Trade, Commerce and Industry), (c) Crop Development Authorities
(d) Technical Services Department of MANR (Settlement Schemes), (e) Minor



-8-
agricultural projects (M4ANR). Each credit organization is responsibie for
its own portfolio although there has recently beer. some centralizatior. of
the credit accounts administered by MANRR  The commercial farming sector uses
as its source of credit:  (a) ADMARC (b) LMDEBANK, and (c) Commercial Banks.
1.18      National smalihoider credit policy is supervised by a MANR National
Credit (SmalIholder) Committee which reports to the Permanen. Sc retary, MANR,
on all smallholder agricultural credit matters. The committee, among other
tasks, formulates and coordinates loan procedures and documentation, advises
on overall credit financing, maintains close liaison with ADMARC, issues
guidelines and directives to field management to ensure MANR policies are
adhered to and deliberates and advises on credit matters when required by the
Permanent Secretary.  Applications for agricultural loans are prepared and
appraised by Extension Officers of MANR or the Crop Authority concerned and
forwarded to a Field Loan Committee for approval.  Because of tihe large nunber
of small loads the cost of administering smaliholder credit is high (reaching
20% rate of interest) and is subsidized-
1.19      The bulk of smallholder credit is given by the rural development
projects which have their own credit sections.  98% of the MK 2.0 million
(US$2.2 million) loaned in 1976/77 was fcr short-term credit. Interest
rates for seasonal credit are 15% for individuals and 10% for group credit.
Interest for medium-term credit is 8%o a year. Government intends to raise
the rate to 1(% per annum on an annuity repayment basis over a 3 to 5 year
period. SInce the credit operations are strictly supervised and properly
supported by extension, input s!Mpply anid marketing services, the repayment
rates have been generally satisfactory ranging from 98 perc ,r - 100 percent
with LLDP, 74 percent - 98 percent in LRDP and 70 percent - V., percent in
KRDP. The exception was Shire which has recently suffered from a severe
drought which affected crop repavments; repayment of arrears is now improving-
II.  THE NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM:  CONCEPT, OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY
2.01      The concept of a Nationai. Rural Development Program emerged from
discussions within the Government and with IDA missions on the impact of the
maior agricultural projects in Malawi and the possibility of extending these
projects to other area- of the country. The heavy capital outlay required for
the major projects weighed against the ide-a of extending them over the whole
of Malawi within a reaso-aable time period.  It was concluded that a chaTnge of
emphasis was needed to assure a more rapid and equitable expansion of develop-
ment activities and benefits. A target period of 20 years has been set to
extend development throughout the countr,. Initial emphasis would be placed
on investments with an immediate impact on agric;lltural production-
2.02      In line with these objectives the National1 Rural Development Pro-
gram (NRDP) wi11 extend and consolidate various development programs over
the entire country, but necessarily under less intensive staffing and in-
frastructure.  The NRDP is specifically designed to increase the level of



- 9 -
smallholder ptoduction through the provision of agricultural inputs and farm
services; particular attention will be paid to increasing the efficiency and
scope of extension, inpuz supply, marketing ard credit services. Under the
NRDP, cultivation of new land will be discouraged, and emphasis will be placed
on improved productivity from already cultivated areas; attention will also be
g-ven to soil conservation, watershed management, and afforestation.
2.03      The Ministry of Agriculture will have responsibility for implementa-
tion of the program. The Central Services ard management capability of MANR
are being strengthened to serve the needs of tne program. MANR Headquarters
and the field organization have been restructured (Chart C-1). The country is
being dividcd into eight Management Units (Karonga, Mzuzu, Kasungu, Lilongwe,
Salima, t_ nba. Blantvre. Shire - see-map IBRD 13395) which will absorb the
fuictions of the present three Regional Agricultural Offices and four
major project headquarters   Each Management Unit (MU) will administer one
Agricultural Development Di'ision (ADD). On average, each ADD will be divided
into five Develovment Areas (DAs), each covering an average ol about 25,000
farm families. Development Areas will be the basic tnit of development and
all 40 have been ranked in order of priority based on (a) potential, (b) food
situatinn, (c) apparent farmer initiative, (d) popalatior., (e) accessibility,
ard (f) maintaining a balance between regions to be phased into the program as
manpowe- and money become available. Ten DAs are covered by ongoing projects
ari 7 more will be covered by this project.
2.J4      The program envisages a 15-18 year development period for each
Developrent Area, divided into four phases. The activities would start with
a two or three year preparatory phase. This would include land and agro-
economic surveys, followed by detailed physical and economic planning; the
es-ablishment of agronomic trials where necessary; construction of essential
additional staff housing; allocation of new extension staff; and construction
of additional water sources, marketing facilities, rural roads and health
posts. The next phase, tentatively called extensive pnase, would be imple-
mented over a period of about five years and would include investments in
production related items such as improved extension and training, marketing,
supply ot inputs and credit. During the fellowing five-year intensive phase,
more attention would be given to increasing research and introduction of new
crops and processing technologies; intensification of cropping programs;
opening up of new areas where available for settlement; land conservation and
consolidation; animal husbandry; and the construction of new roads. Finally,
the areas would enter a consolidation phase, which would involve a continua-
tion ot more 4ntensive development, further improvements to social infrastruc-
ture especially education and health, and may also include the developmenit of
rural industries. In practice there will not necessarily be a clear dividing
line between activit'cs in each phase.
2.05      Under the Karonga 11 Project IDA agreed in 1976 to finance (US$ 2.5
million) the preparatory phases of three NRDP Development Areas, Thiwi-Lifidzi,
!4zimba and Kawinga. Implemnentation has proceeded satisfactorily and as a
result essential offices, housing and staff should be in position by November.



- 10 -
1978.  Since 1976 MANR 'ias prepared the plans for the various components of
the First Phase and gained the interest of various co-financiers. In 1977
the African Development Fund agreed to finance the fourth new Development Area
prepared - Namwera.  in September 1977, the Government requested the assis-
tance of IDA, the European Development Fund (EDF), United Nations Development
Fund (UNDP), United Kingdom (UK), the Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA) and the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG), to finance the first
phase of the program. In addition, as part of the long-range objectives for
NRDP it asked the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
to help strengthen the country's Agricultural Research Service. As a result,
a joint appraisal with IDA, EDF, UK and CIDA personnel took place in November
1977. USAID discussed the research proposals with Government at the same time
and is now cqnsidering a prqjecLcQ$ting1S455.hmiian.
IlI. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project would assist Government over 5 years to implement
the first phase of NRDP. It would strengthen MANR's Central Services, help
establish the 4 Management Units necessary for this phase of the program,
and commence development in 8 new Development Areas as well as completing the
consolidation phase of the Lilongwe Land Development Project. The project's
8 new DAs cover 5,870 square miles and now contain about 184,000 families
while the LLDP consolidation phase will affect 1,800 square miles and 103,000
families. Its major objectives would be to: (i) increase the number of
farmers applying improved practices - over 82,000 are expected to participate,
(ii) provide advice and credit to participating farmers so that over 316,000
acres (33% of cropped area) might be receiving inputs, (iii) provide increased
health and infrastructural services directly or indirectly affecting most
families in the Project Area, (iv) complete the land survey, registration and
extension development effort in Lilongwe to the benefit of 103,000 families.
Key features would be a more orgdnized and production oriented MANR and
extension service (para. 4.04) and the adoption of a more responsive pricing
system designed to meet specific production goals (para. 6.04). The Project
would specifically provide for:
a.   Strengthening of MANR's Central Services capacity to supervise
and implement the program, evaluate results and plan future
projects by:
(i) providing additional HQ technical staff;
(ii) establishing an NRDP road construction unit;
(iii) providing additional local training facilities;
(iv) providing local and overseas fellowships;



- II -
(v)   strengthening the Planning Division and undertaking
a National Sample Survey of Agriculture;
(vi)   strengthening the Land Husbandry Division;
(vii)   providing staff and operating costs to increase the
present program of field trials in project and prospec-
tive project DAs;
(viii)   imptoving ADMARC's marketing capability through provision
of economis,s; and
(-ix)   mitiating-exte&ion--servi-ea  -red4t. st_udies,-.
b.   Strengthening the technical, accounting, evaluation and manage-
ment capacities of the Management Units at Lilongwe, Mzuzu,
Zomba, and Blantyre as well as the construction of some
associated buildings and offices.
c.   Strengthening of services and providing infrastructure in 8 new
Development Areas, namely: Thiwi-Lifidzi, Ntcheu (Lilongwe ADD),
Mzimba, Henga Valley (Mzuzu ADD), Nchisi (Kasungu ADD), Phalombe,
Mwanza (Blantyre ADD) and Kawinga (Zomba ADD) including:
(i)  strengthening and development of extension, animal
husbandry and land husbandry services, and construc-
tion of housing for new staff and office facilities;
(ii)  improvement in animal health and production s'etvices;
(iii)  provision of incremental agricultural inputs including
fertilizers, seeds and pesticides;
(iv)  construction of additional markets and input stores;
(v)  provision for seasonal and medium-term credit for farm
inputs;
(vi)  establishment of field trials;
(vli)  construction and improvement of rural roads, bridges,
culverts and drifts;
(viii) establishment of tree nurseries and provision of staff
to foster village and individual smallholder woodlot
development for domestic and tobacc curing purposes;
(ix)  expansion and improvement of health facilities; and
(x)  improvement oi domestic water supplies.



- 12 -
d.   Provision of fourth or consolidation phase incremental costs of
the Lilongwe Land Development Project which would include:
(i)  continuation of agricultural extension se,vices, farmer
and staff traicritg, road and borehole maintenance in
those units whfch have not completed a five-year develop-
ment period (524,000 acres with 56,100 farm families),
and construction of 50 junior staff huases not constructed
during the third phase;
(ii)  survey and demarcation of the remaining 202,000 ac:es and
registration of 52.8,000 acres;      .-
(iii) provision of incremental seasonal and medium-term farmer
credit;
(iv) livestock extension staff to encourage beef production,
smallholder dairying and intensive egg production;
(v)  provision of more breeding stock and associated operating
costs for the continued development of Dzalanyama ranch;
(vi) the establishment of a tree nursery and the provision of
staff to encourage woodlot development by smallholders for
domestic and tobacco curing fuel; and
(vii) the construction of 87 borehole aprons and 14 bridges which
could not be built under Phase III because of pressure of
wor'k on the construction teams.
3.02      MANR would have principal responsibility for project implementation
and for ensuring effective coordination with other ministries and agencies
concerned - notably ADMARC, and the Ministries of Finance, Works and Health.
The health component would be administered by the Ministry of Health.Develop-
ment would take place initially on the consolidation phase of LLDP and five
DAs:  Thiwi-Lifidzi, Mzimba, Ntchisi, Phaiombe and Kawinga.  Work on the
remaining three DAs - Ntcheu, Henga Valley and Mwanza would commence in the
second year.  The r;oject will draw heavily on previous rural development
project experience.
3.03      The cost of services required to maintain the level of production
already reached by farmers in the new DAs and Lilongwe have been considered
as "recurrent costs" to be borne entirely by Government; all expenditures by
the Project above this level are cansidered as Project costs.



- 13 -
B. The Project Area
3.04      The eiglnz DAs designated for development are located in 5 ADDs (see
map IBRD 13395). They have been selected because of their relatively high
population densit- (Thiw'i-Lifidzi, Phalombe), soil conservation and technical
probiem-s (Ntcheu, Mwa3za) geographical distribution and need for infrastruc-
ture (Mzimba, ~Nch` si, Henga, and Kawingaj.  The DAs farm families are expected
to increase froa 184,00C to 236,000 by 1983. Including the LLDP consolidation
phase the Project will affect 326,000 families by 1983 or 27% of the farm
families in Malawi.  1/
*     3.05       The new DAs cover a variety of ecological and-topographical condi--
tions.  Altitude mnges rrom !,800-5,500 feet.  Rainfall, which is generally
reliable, varies from 25-5O', most of which falls in the December-March rainy
season. Natural vegetation includes Acacia savanna and Brachystegia woodland
types and black clay grasslands (dambos). Most common cultivated soils are
the basement complex sandy loam, sandy clay loam and loamy sands. The first
two have reasonable nutrient status although fertilizers are required for
continuous cropping and maximizing yields. T'Ite loamy sands have poor fertil-
ity and structure. Alluvial and black clay soils are found in valley bottoms
and are increasingly being cultivated for cropping at the end of the rainy
season. Holding size averages 5.0 acres per family (range 3.5-7.0). Maize
which usually constitutes 70% or mo-e of the acreage, groundouts and pulses
are the main crops grown. Present (and initial future project efforts) are
directed towards improving the husbandry and increasing the marketed surpluses
of the present main staple food crops, cash crops and livest'ck found in the
areas. Poor roads, o'-en impassable in the rainy season, arc - feature of the
areas. Parts of Heab.i_, Azimba, Ntchisi, Ntchau, and Phalombe have areas where
domestic water is 3carce. Farmers in all areas are keen to progress. Gener-
ally, there is adequate labor and land available to increase farm production.
Field trials and demonstrations in most areas or on associated research
stations have demonstrated suitable packages.
C. Detailed Features
(a) Central Services
Technical, Accunting and Credit Staff
3.06      The management capacity of MANR would be strengthened to enable
it to coordinate and supervise the implementation of NRDP. A Project coordi-
nator post would be established Lo assist the Chief Agricu1tural Development
Officer (CADO) to implement the project. Other project-related staff would
include a Financial Coordinator, Senior Agricultural Credit Officer. a Systems
Analyst Programmer and Accounting Staff, Assistant Conservator of Forests,
1/   If the Shire, Lakeshore, Karonga and Namwera projects are included
524,000 faoilies cr 44% of Malawi's rural population will be covered by
:dajor rural development projects. IDA projects and IDA financed DAs of
NRDP would cover 323,000 of these families.



- 14 -
Estates Officer and Works Officer for the building program. Most of the
additional staff would be locally recruited or obtained with bilateral topping
up. The Financial Coordinator and Systems Anaiyst Programmer would be inter-
nationally recruited. The investments would include houses, vehicles, equip-
ment, technical assistance, staff salaries, and equipment and incremental
operating costs.
NKRDP Construction Unit
3.07      An NRDP Construction Unit would be established based on the remain-
ing machinery from the LLDP program and augmented by equipment purchased under
the project. It would carry out the program outlined in para 3.20. The
placing of the Unit in MAUR rather than MOW has beefn donewth full  pprQ l
of the latter. The two ministries will work closely together on the program
(para 4.09). The officer in charge would be internationally recruited.
Training
3.08      In order to meet the upgrading and refresher training requirements
of the extension staff (para. 4.12) the capacity of the Falls Estate T--aining
( Cnter wiill be increased from 28 to 45 beds and extra staff provided.  Fellow-
< tips will be provided (by EDF) for overseas training for staff from the
;anniag Divis'on, Accounting, Extension and other NRDP Services on sjch
X jects as management, extension, ranching, development planning, an~imal
) iJuction, credit and accounting; scholarships will also be given for account-
'"training locally.  Investments will include buildings, incremental staff
1e lecturer and 4 ancillary staff) and operating costs and fellowships.
un'aiqg Evaluation and National Sample Census
vj     T-ne expansion of NRDP activities requires the strengthenting of
MANR Planning Division w4th 3 nev. professional staff posts and a technical
of\icer. The Division would undertake a number of agro-econouic surveys and
Jd be responsible for the National Sample Survey of Agriculture  Last done
1968/69) to be uindertaken during the course of the Project.  The Project
*-1 provide 4 staff houses, vehicles, office equiiment, incremental staff and
oC --ating costs, 3 supervisory training posts, consultant time for any special
si laies and project preparation and funds for the Survey.
L- ,.1 Husbandry
3J01      Malawi is ccmnittec to properly planned land development and has
establisned a competent Land Husbandry Division that undertakes land planning
and soil conservation layouts. Under NRDP the Division must meet growing
requirements for resource surveys, area planning, and training in Land Hus-
bandrfy for MN3? staff.  The Airphoto Un4t in particular requires strengthen-
ing so that it can collect, interpret and store information on the physical
resources of the country and the various DAs.  Current mapping proposals aim
to cover 6,000 sq. miles under NRDP. The Project will provide survey and
mapping equipment, orthophoto maps, aerial photography, a senior Land Hus-
bandry Officer, 2 Professional Officers, 1 Technical Officer, Field Teams and
incremental operating costs for the incremental staff training and survey work.



-15 -
Field Trials Program
3.' 1     The Project will provide for a Technical Ofi cer,   -
Assistants and staff to commence and supervise field trials in 5 DAs t-at
are expected to be incorporated in the second and subsequenr phases of NRDP.
investment would consist of buildings, vehicles, staff saiaries end .ISS  ted
*Aarketing
3.12      ADMARC would employ economists in its own headquarters to inves-
tigate marketing and pricing issues (para. 6.04).
Stud es
3. 1      Two studies would be undertaken to (a) examine ardci make recoamenda-
tions for improving the Extension Serxvices and reducing costs (n.ara 4.CiS) a0  d
(b) make recommendations on future credit organization (para. 4.f7).
(b)  Management Unit Headquarters (MUs)
3. 14     In orTer that a common pattern of integrated management. U-ni'  can be
established some strengthening of staff and development of infrastricturc will
be required at four ADDs (Lilougwe, Mzuzu, Blantyre and Zomba).  2-? Prafessional
Officer, 16 Technical Officer and 50 Technical Assistant neW posts will be
required 11. The fifth ADD - Kasu-agu, which will manage Nchisi DA will, untl
more projects are financed, continue to use the existing faciliEies in the
RAOs office in Lilongwe. With LLDP now entering the closing and consolidat-on
phase it is intended to u-e the nucleus of LLDP management staff as the basis
for the new Lilongwe Management Unit which will be responsible for LLDP, Thiwi-
Lifidzi, Ntcheu and 1,209 sq. miles of non-project land due for inclusion in
a later phase of NRDP in 1982/83. The LLDP Evaluation Unit and parts of
the land use, finance and accounts, and administration units would be trans-
ferred and a few extra staff added.  In addition, 11 professional and technical
officer posts including the present expatriate project manager of Lilongwe
would be transferred from LLDP and 3 new technical posts added to the team.
Some additional vehicles and buildings fcr the new staff will be required.
At Blantyre and Mzuzu the present Regional teams will ne strengthened by extra
staff. As Zomba will be a new unit a larger increase in staff will be required
as well as new offices.  Investments will include buildings, vehicles, office
equipment, staff salaries and incremental operating costs. To imorove the
delivery and market systems ADMARC will provide input and liaison officers in
each MU,
1/   Professional officers are usually University graduates trained overseas
or vith 3 years at Bunda College in Malawi.  Technical officers are
two-year trained Bunda College diploiaates or upgraders from the Technical
Assistant ranks.  Technical Assistants (often with educational qualifica-
tions just insufficient for Bunda) have attended a two-year course at
Colby Agricultural College which was preceded by one or two years in
the field.



- 16 -
(c) Development Areas
3.15       In each DA similar activities would take olace having the same
operational criteria.  Each DA includes the following activities:  DA manage-
ment and extension services, provision of inputs and credit, estabiishment of
field trials, improvement and maintenance of feeder roads, construction of
markets and input stores, establishment of tree nurseries, expansion of health
facilities, and on some DAs improvement of water supplies.
3.16      Extension Service.  The rate at which farmers accept the new
packages will depend on the effectiveness of the extension service. The
extension service will be strengthened and increased in numbers. Specialist
staff in credit, land husbandry and animal husbandry will be posted to DA
headquarters to assist the Officer-in-Charge.  The nmber of Technical Asis;a
tants in contact with the farmers will be increased from the present level
of I TA to 1,5CO to 2,290 farmers to 1 TA to about 750 farmers (para. 4.04).
1 Professional Officer, 25 Technical Officer and 184 new Technical Assistant
posts will be reqttired over the project period with houses, offices and
operating costs.
3.17      Animal Health and Production Services.  In order to improve live-
stock production, dipping programs will he expanded in Thiwi-Lifidzi (3 dips),
Ntcheu (3 dips), Phalombe (4 dips), Henga (4 dips), and Kawinga (1 dip).  As
a pilot project, MK 14,000 will be provided to establish a small revolving
fund for a scheme to purchase and resell veterinary medicines to farmers in
Thiwi-Lifidzi and 4tcheu DAs.  Prices of drugs will be sufficient to cover
costs and the ftrd will be managed by Project Management.  Stallfeeding of
producers' own steers will be encouraged in Thiwi-Lifidzi and Ntcheu.  Fencing
and legume seed will be provided in Mzimba to demonstrate the value of better
pastures and rotations. Staff will include an Animal Husbandry Officer, I TO
in each of the DA headquarters, 13 Veterinary Assistant posts and supporting
staff. Investments will include buildings, dips, water supplies, dipping
materials, veterinary medicines, staff and operating costs.
3.18      Inputs, Stores and Credit.  Input and produce marketing services
require improvement. ADMARC will therefore construct 53 input stores and
markets to sell fertilizer, seed, pesticides and tools and purchase produce.
Present improved seed and fertilizer use will be increased on IDA schemes by
240 tons and 3,100 tons, respectively by full development.  In IDA projects,
an additional MK  .O million would be supplied for additional credit to small
f2rmers; co-financiers will provide eM  2.4 million for their DAs; most would
t e for seasonal inputs.
3.19      Field Trials, The agronomist in each MU and special TA's in each-
project DA would continue and expand the program of trials established under
the pre-investment phase of NRDP.  Investments will include staff and operating
expenditures.                                                             N
3.20      Roads.  The Construction Unit "para. 3.07) will constrict, realign
or repair 980 miles of road and build 137 bridges.  The program has been
determined by the Land Husbandry Division which has selected and proposed the



- 17 -
roads required to meet the extension and crop production program.  '4ost will
be earth roads with some gravelled spot improvements.  They will be of similar
type to those built at LLDP and their alignment, standards and engineering
wilL be done in close association with MOW (para 4.09). The possible use of
more labor intensive measures was considered but none was considered satisfac-
tory.  Government wishes to complete the construction program with the minimum
of delay so that inputs and extension services can have the earliest effect.
Farmers will be fully employed on their own conservation, and ridge and furrow
realigning work.  It is therefore uncertain whether sufficient labor would be
forthcoming in time. Considerable labor will be required for construction of
bridges, drains, culverts and small structures. Maintenance of small farm
roads is often done by hand labor. The principal investment items would be
equipment, operating costs, materials and labor.
3.21      Tree Nurseries.  Domestic and tobacco processing fuelwood is very
scarce in parts of _he project areas.  Farmers in LLDP have responded well
to the establishment of a small forest nursery and in each of the DAs it is
intended to establish nurseries which would produce enough trees for 200 acres
to be planted annually by year 5 in each DA. Farmers will be encouraged to
grow trees on their own farms and in village woodlots.  In line with national
policy to encourage tree planting seedlings will be sold at a subsidized price
of 0.5 tambala each.  Investments will include buildings, vehicles, staff
and operating costs.
3.22      Health Facilities.  Because of lack of funds in the past, health
facilities are few and often in need of improvement; there is a big unful-
filled demand for them.  41 maternity units, disptnsaries and health stub-
centers will therefore be built or completely renovated in Thiwi-Lifidzi
(3), Ntcheu (7), M4imba (3), Henga (5), Ntchisi (5), Phalombe (6), 4wanza
(9) and Kawinga (3).  Investments will include buildings, incremental staff,
boreholes, piped water and medicines.  Facilities being provided are in line
with Government policy and are the minimum that are required to give reason-
able geographical distribution.
3.23      Domestic Water Supplies.  Some areas in some DAs have inadequate
domestic water s;upplies. Provision has been made to supply water by means of
boreholes or piped water supplies in Ntcheu (5 water points), Mzimba (30 water
points), Henga (15 water points), Ntchisi (13 water points), Mwanza (35 water
points) and Kawinga (10 water points).  Before construction is undertaken Land
Husbandry staff, in consultation with the Hydrology Section of MA_NR would
determine the cheapest method of supplying water to an area.  Investments
would include boreheles, piping and equipment.
(d) Lilongwe Consolidation Phase
3.24      The Consolidation Phase will complete over 5 years the development
phase of the new urnits that were started under Phase III of LLDP.  It will
mainly involve the completion of the extension and credit effort (para. 1.10).
3.25      Extension Serrice and Farmer and Staff Training.  Staffing levels
remaining in LLDP are those necessary for the continued development of the
project.  The level of extension TAs which was once as intensive as I TA to



- 18 -
200 farmers is now about 1:750.  Investments will include staff salaries and
operating costs on units where the development phase has not been completed.
3.26      Survey, Demarcation and Registration.  Survey, Demarcation and
Registration staff will complete the work by the fifth year.  Staff will begin
to be reduced from the fourth year onwards. Investments include staff salaries
and operating cests. The evaluation unit will evaluate the whole LLDP demarca-
tion and registration prograia to determine whether it should be ccntinued and
introduced into new DAs in another phase of NRDP.
3.27      Credit.  Farmers' demand and need for credit to purchase inputs to
increase production is increasing.  Incremental credit will be provided to
purchase 500 tons seed and 6,800 tons fertilizer, 300 dairy cattle and various
ox-drawn implements.
3.28      Llvestock Production.  Smallholder stallfeeding of ranch bred and
local steers purchased on credit has been a success. Feedlng of producers
own cattle has been disappointing and it is intended to increase the number
from the present negligible number to 360 head per year by year 5. Efforts
will also be made to make better use of the natural grazing by trying to
organize communal grazing. 150 farmers will receive 300 dairy cattle during
the project. The pilot smallholder poultry project will be continued;
careful monitoring mf the poultry component will be undertaken.  Investments
will include staff and operating costs.
3.29      Dzalanyama Ranch.  The cattle numbers on Dzalan-ama ranch will
continue to be expanded. The recent outbreak of Brucellosis has slowed the
growth of the herd. In order that the ranch can fully utilize its grazing
potential another 2,300 heifers and 54 bulls will be purchased which will
allow the herd to nearly double its numbers from the present level of 7,900
head to 15,400 head by 1986 (para. 5.12). Investments will include buildings,
a dip, vehicles, fencing, breeding cattle and incremental operating costs.
3.30      Tree Nursery.  The small tree nursery started in the third phase
will be expanded to provide tree seedlings for farmers and village woodlots.
Investments include buildings, vehicles, staff aad operating costs.
3.31      Borehole and Bridge Constructicn.  87 small borehole aprons (total
cost MK 16,500) protecti.g well surroundings and 14 bridges (MK 149,800)
will be built as these could not be constructed under Phase III because of the
heavy commitment of the building section to the health program. Investments
include labor and building materials.
D. Project Costs (Table T-1)
3.32      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at MK 54.8
million (US$66 million), of which about MK 21.8 millior, \US$26.2 million)
or 40% represents foreign expenditures. The IDA component costs are according
to appraisal estimates while costs for co-financier components have been



- 19 -
provided by co-financier appraisal teams or taken from preparation documents
for the presently unappraised Mwanza DA, Kawinga DA, and Zomba ffU. These
latter components will be updated when co-financing appraisal figures become
available. Components are summarized in the following table while breakdown
of costs by years and grouped by financiers is given in Table T-1:
Project Costs
------- MK' oO------------     -- ---------}US$'000 - --  ---       Percentage
Local      Foreign      Total       Local      Fore4<g       Tctal      lotal Cost
CENTRAL SERVICES
Technical aDd Accounting Services           t,081        657        1,738       1,302        792         2,094          4
construction Unit                             -        1,846         1,846        -        2,224         2,224           5
Training Facilities                            60         1S            78         72          22           94           -
Fellowi.hips                                   81        529           610         97         637          734           1
Planing Divislon                              315        271          586         379        326           705           1
National Sample Survry of Agriculture         383         73          456         461         88           549           1
Land lusbandry Division                       229        759           988        276        914         1,190           2
Research and Trials                           219        125           344        264         151          415           1
marketing                                      68         15            83         82          18          100           -
Studies                                         7        123           130          8        A                           -
Sub-TotaLt                                  2,443      4,416        6,859       2,943      5,320         8,263         16
Management U'-its
Lilongwe                                    2,415      1,134         3)549      2,910      1,366         4,276
Mzur-I                                      1,242        761         2,003      1,496        917         2,413          4
Blantyre                                      742        658         1,40G        894         793        1,687          4
Zoct5-                                      !.955      1,141         3,096      2,_315     1 7Sl        _3.730 
Sub-Total:                                  6,354      3,694        10,048      7,655      4,451        12,106         23
Development Areas
l1ongwe Consolidation                       3,430      1,524         4,954      4,132      1,S36         5,968          11
Thivl-Lifidzi                               1,270        711        1,981       1,530        s57         Z,387          4
Ntcheu                                      1,519        800        2,319       1,830        9%.3        2,793          5
mzistba                                     i,175        820         1,995      1,416        988         2,403           5
Berkg& Valley                               1,840        752         2,592      2,216         906        3,122           6
?hbisi                                      2,273        974        3,247       2,739      1,173         3,912           7
pialorbe                                    2,817      1,727        4,544       3.394      2,081         5,474          11
)Manza                                      1,606        904         2,510      1,934       1,089        3,023           6
vinga                                       1,44       j,0           2,463      1 2739     1 2            _              6
Sub-'Total:                                17,373      9,232       26,605      20,931     11,122        32,054         61
Total Base Cost                            26.170     17,342       43,512      31,530     20,893        52,423        100
llysicel contingencies                      1,484        815        2.299       1,788        982         2,769           -
Price Contingencies                         5,39a      3,605        %,003       6,304      4,343        10,647
C6AND TOAL                                 33.052     21,762        54,814     ,9.822     26,275        66,041         -_



- 20 -
3 33      Costs have been estimated at prices prevailing in August 1978.
In the IDA financed components, no phvsical contingencies have been provided
for staff in the Central Services or Management Units as staffing levels
are adequate; a 10X physical contingency for other costs has been included.
In IDA DAs a 5% physical contingency for staffing and 10% for other costs
has been estimated with a weighted average of 8% applied overall to these
components. Past experience in Mala.7i with the components invoived indicates
that these physical contingency allowances will be adequate. Price contingen-
cies have been calculated at the following rates on IDA financed components:
Vehicles, equipment and all other operating costs 6.5% for 1979/80 and 6.0%
per annum thereafter.  For civil works where costs are rising quite rapidly
10% per annum has been included for 1979/80 and 1980/81, 8% for 1981 and 1982
and 7% thereafter.  Physical and price contingency elements-fe-f4iFaneiei-=
components have been taken from preparation documents.  Except for tax on
salaries, which is not significant, Project costs do not incltide any taxes or
duties.
3.34      In the IDA financed DAs 40% of total project costs will go to
extension, animal husbandry, credit service and training: 26% will go towards
road construction; 12% for the credit fund; 6% to health services; 57 for
forest rnurseries and the remainder (117) for water, markets, research,
surveys and land allocation. Of the IDA financed components 59% of project
costs will be spent on staff and operating costs; 8% on roads; 16% on build-
ings; 10% on vehicles and equipment; 7% on the credit fund,  marketing and
livestock.
E.  Financing
3.35      Financing of Project costs would be as follows:



- 21-
Percentage
MK        US$           of          Main Components
Million   Million  Total Costs           Financed
IDA                  18.2       22.0        33      )    Central Services /a
)    Lilongwe MU, Lilongwe
CIDA                  2.1         2.6 /b     4      )    Consolidation Phase,
)    Thiwi-Lifidzi, Ntcheu,
)    Mzimba DAs.
EDF                  10.9       13.1        20           NRDP Construction Unit,
Mzuzu MU, Henga DA,
-Ntchisi DA, -Fe1+owships.,-
UK                    9.7       11.7        18           National Sample Survey,
Blantyre MU, Phalombe DA,
Mwanza DA.
Germany                5.5        6.6        10           Zomba MU, Kawinga DA.
ADMARC                 1.2        1.5        2           Marketing, stores.
Government            6.9        8.5        13
54.8      66.0       100
la   Consisting of HQ, techrical and accounting services, technical assis-
tance for the construction unit, training facilities, fellowships,
Planning Division, Land Husbandry Division, Research and Trials,
Studies.
/b   Canada wishes to contribute Canadian $3.0 million.  In October, 1978
the exchange rate was C$1 = US$0.85.
3.36      The co-finiancier contributions would finance 85% of total Project
costs and cover all foreign exchange requirements (US$26.2) and 76% of local
costs (US$30 million). The proposed IDA credit of US$22 million would he
to Government on standard terms and used to finance the Central Services (with
the exception of the equipment for thne Construction Unit and National Sample
Survey), Lilongwe Mantagement Unit, Lilongwe Consolidation Phase, Thiwi-Lifidzi
DA, Mzimba DA and Ntcheu DA. The Credit would finance 33% of Project costs.
CIDA has indicated tnat it wisnes to contribute Canadian $3.0 million grant
towards the Project. CIDA would make a general contribution to IDA financing
to be disbursed on a pro rata basis with IDA money. An umbrella Financing



- 22 -
agreement has been negotiated between IDA and CIDA. EDF will provide US$13.1
million as a grant for the construction equipment, Mzuzu MU, Henga DA and
Ntchisi DA and for trainIng and scholarships. The UK would provide a grant of
US$11.7 for the National Sample Survey, Blantyre MU, Phalombe DA and Mwanza
DA. The Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) has axpressed interest in the Zomba
MU and Kawinga DA and would provide US$6.6 million on terms -et to be decided.
If Zomba and Kawinga were not financed immediately it would not affect the
start of NRDP and these components would likely be financed by another donor
in due course if final agreement is not reached with FRG. ADMARC will provide
S,$1.5 million for new marketing staff, markets and stores. Government wouild
meet the remaining US$8.5 million or 13% of total Project costs. It is a
condition of effectiveness that (a) the Borrower has obtained the-EDF grant
and the financing under the UK grant and (b) Government has-satisfactorily;
implemented any conditions required by EDF, CIDA and UK.
3.37      Funds pr. ided by IDA would be channeled by the Government to the
Ministry of Agriculture. Any Project-related expenditures incurred after the
final disbursements for the Phas,e III Lilongwe Land Development Project and
the pre-investment phase for NRDP under KRDP II project would be eligible for
retroactive financing; retroactive financing is expected to total about
US$600,000 for Lilongw? and UTS$50,000 for KRDP II, largely for staff salaries
and operating costs.
F. Procurement
3.38      Procur-ament of venicles, machinery and equipment (USS2.2 million)
in orders over US$100,000 would be subject to international competitive bidding
ac:ording to IDA guidelines; orders would be bulked whenever possible. Staff
housing, offices and other buildings (US$3.5 million), which due to their
small size and dispersed locations would aot attract internatioral comrpetitive
bidding, would be constructed either after local conpetitive bidding or by
force accoun. by the Ministry of Works (MOW) or MANR.  Borehojes (US$0.2 mil-
lion) would be constructed by the Geological Survey Department under force
account. Construction of Project roads and bridges (US$1.8 million) would be
the responsibility of the NRDP construction unit.  Assuranices that the above
procurement procedures would be followed were obtained at negotiations.
Procurement for parts of the project financed by other co-financiers would be
based on the standard procedures of these institutions.
G. Disbursements
3.39      Disbursement of funds from the Credit account would be on the
following basis:



- 23 -
a    88% of total costs for civil works; and
b.   100% of foreign exchange costs or 88% of local costs for other
costs except for operating costs of the health component, ranch
operating costs, stores and other marketing development costs.
Disbursements against (a) and for vehicles, machinery, equipment, civil works
by contract, and studies weuld be fully documented. Disbursement against all
other costs would be made against certificates of expenditures endorsed by the
Divisional Development Officer-in-Charge of the relevant Management Unit; the
documents for these expenditures would not be submitted for review but would
be retained by the government and be available for inspection by IDA during
the-course of supervision.  Disbursement-s-fnLxseasonal and medium-.te.m credit
would only be made on an incremental basis. Any funds remaining in the credit
account on completion of the project would be available for reallocation for
financing supplementary project-related expenditures, subject to the approval
of IDA.
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD                                        Quarterly           Cumulative
Fiscal Year         Quarter Ending          Disbursements       Disbursements
(us$ '000)----------
1978/79          March 31, 1979                  65v                  650
June 30, 1979                   400                1,050
1979/80          September 30, 1979              400                1,450
December 31, 1979               650                2,100
March 31, 1980                1,100                3,200
June 30, 1980                 1,100                4,300
1980/81          September 30, 1980            1,100                5,400
December 31, 1980             1,100                6,500
March 31, 1981                i,100                7,600
June 30, 1981                 1,100                8,700
1981!82         September 30, 19S1             1,100                9,800
December 31, 1981             1,100               10,900
March 31, 1982                1,100               12,000
June 30, 1982                 1,100               13,100
1982/83          September 30, 1982            1,100               14,200
December 31, 1982             1,100               15,300
March 31, 1983                1,100               16,400
June 30, 1983                 1,100               17,590
1983/84          Septeimber 30, 1983           1,100               18,600
December 31, 1983             1,100               19,700
March 31, 1984                1,100               20,800
June 30, 1984                 1,200               22,000



- 24 -
3.40       Government will take an increasing share of Project operating
costs of essential services on to revenue (recurrent) account as the Project
progresses. In the case of Lilongwe it will meet at least 80% of these costs
by the fifth year and in the case of Central Services, LADD Management Unit
and Thiwi-Lifidzl, Ntcheu and Mzimba DAs, Government will have taken over at
least 20% of the cost of the essential services by the fifth year according to
an agreed schedule (Table T-1). Assurances on this takeover were obtained at
negotiations.
H. Accounts, Audit and Reports
3,41      During the life of the Project, accounts would be maintained in MANR
with separate accounts for each component. In previous projects accounts have
been audited by the Auditor General, and as this arrangement has proved satis-
factory to IDA, this procedure would be followed for the proposed Project.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Goverament would,
promptly after completior of the Project but no later than three months after
the credit closing date, prepare a completion report on the execution of the
Project, its costs and benefits, and its major accomplishments. As is the
present practice government would submit quarterly reports to all donors.
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      The Ministry of Agriculture would have principal responsibility for
most Project components. The Department of Agricultural Development would be
responsible for the implementation of NRDP and would rely,to a great extent
on existing staff and institutions-  The Department is headed by the Chief
Agricultura' Development Officer (CADO) who has specialist staff in the fields
of extensi,. and training, animal husbandry, crops, land husbandry, forestry
credit and marketing, planning, construction, nutrition and women's program.
CADO would be responsible for the NRDP project. He has an NRDP coordinator,
who is already in post and acceptable to IDA, responsible for overall coordi-
nation of both planning and implementation of all aspects of NRDP within the
Department including liaison with other Departments and outside organizations.
He would coordinate the preparation of the annual work program and make
arrangements for discussion on the analysis of the previous years performance.
The officer-in-charge of the Construction Unit (para. 4.09) would come under
CADO.
4.02      The Ministry of Health would be responsible for the direction of the
health program but would liaise with land planners in MANR over -he siting of
new centers,  The Ministry of Works and Supplies will work closely with MANR
orn the implementation of the building program and would liaise with .he
Construction Unit over the siting, design and other matters associated with
the roads program. An NRDP Liaison Interministerial Committee under the
chairmanship of the Secretary of Agriculture has been established including
representatives from the Office of the President and Cabinet, Treasury,
Ministry of Works and Supplies, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Community
Development and ADMARC.



25 -
A. Field Services
4.03      At the Agricultural Development Division 'ADD) level there will
be a Management Unit (MU) with a Divisional Development Officer (DDO) in charge.
He will be responsible for rural development in the division in-luding DAs not
in the project. Supervisors-in-Charge of Development Areas (DAs) will work to
him.  The MU will provide services to DAs including provision of specialist
advice on crop, land and animal husbandry, financial control and credit ad-
ministration, evaluation and monitoring of project activities, maintenance
and control of transport, procurement and control of stores and construction
of buildings.  It will liaissj with MANR Central Services over services not
replicated in each MU such as the Road Construction Unit, --Resource Survevs,
Crops Protection Services. It will coordinate with other Government minis-
tries.  A.DMARC will provide each MU with a liaison olficer or contact who wv4ll
work on marketing and input .a.:ters.
4.04      The Supervisor-in-.narge of each DA would be responsible for all
rural development activities in a DA.  He would be assisted by 3 or 4 Specialist
Officers (usually in credit, agronomy, land husbandry and animal husbandry),
who wotuld assist the DA Supervisor in supervising and providing information
and the work program for the Technical Assistant (TA) extension staff in touch
with the farmers. Under NRI,? the number of TAs in a DA would be based on a
ratio of about I TA to 750 farmers rather than the I TA to 1,700 to 2,200
farmers at present.  Each De, will be subdivided into 3 to 5 Ecological Plan-
ning Areas (EPA) with about 5,000 to 6,000 farmers in each.  A senior TA will
be in charge of the EPA, of:zn assisted by a credit TA and Home Farm Instruc-
tress TA. He will have 7 to 8 extension TAs under him who will work with
farmer groups and individuals. The work program of supervisory, specialist,
and extension staff will be more clearly defined than hitherto and will be
adapted to follow more closely the principal of the "training and visit"
system.  The latter system involves the division of an extension agent's area
into farmers groups and the application of a carefullv scheduled and prepared
program of visits and discussions by extension agents and the specialist staff
assisting him. The work program will be production oriented to meet the
project objectives.
4.05      The DA work program ard production objectives would be the core
of NRDP.  Similar to the manner that supervisory authority over staff works
down the pyramid, so the detailed needs of the DAs work program should work up
through MANR and govern the senior staff work program also. Thus, as special-
ist staff in DAs will work to a tight program of meetings and visits, special-
ist staff in Management Units and Headquarters will also work to a similar
program which will meet the needs of the staff and their *:bjectiv;es in the
DAs.  In view of tte need to improve the effectiveness of th(; present service,
to standardize the staffing ratios (the operating cost of services per family
still varies considerably between DAs and assoc_ated MUs) and to effect the
maximum economy io view of the country's budgetary constraints, Covernment
will employ two consultants to examine the situation. Assurances were ob-
tained at negotiations that such a study would be carried out within one year
of the project starting, by consultants appointed in consultation with TDA,



using Terms of Reference agreed with the Association; within 6 months of
completion Government would discuss with !DA the implementation of its con-
clusions.
B. Central Services and Training
Credit
4.06      The credit accounting and documentation procedures already intro-
duced in the major agricultural projects would be introduced gradually on
a countrywide basis -throughgramb                 X reditwould be,admLnLste-ed.
under the supervision of the Financial Coordinator of the MANR. He would
be assisted by a Senior Agricultural Credit Officer.  For the implementation
of the credit program, the Serior Agricultural Credit Officer would work
tihrough the 4U Senior Credit Officers who wotuld be responsible for the credit
administration in ADDs. They in turn would supervise the activities of the
Credit Supervisors in the DAs who would have a Credit Assistant in each EPA,
responsible for farmers groups' credit activities.  The Credit Sections in
MUs and DAs would be responsible for the disbursement and subseauent recovery
of loans. The credit accounts would be maintained by the NRDP Accounting
Units (para 4.08) in HQ, MUs and PAs. Table T-2 gives a summary of the
projected credit fund. The Senior Agricultural Credit Officer would provide
liaison between field implementation staff and the Senior Accountant in charge
of the NRDP Accounting Unit. The Financial Coordinator is an expatriate
funded by KRDF IA. This post is likely to remain filled during the course of
the proiect by an internal_onally recruited expert as Malawian candidates with
the necessary experience are not yet available. At negotiations an assurance
was obtained that the Financial Coordinator will supervise the NRDP credit
program and that a Senior Agricultural Credit Officer would be appointed to
help administer the program. Both posts will be filled by suitably qualified
candidates whose selection would be made in consultation with IDA.
4.07      In the new NRDP areas seasonal credit would be given on a group
basis where farmers have formed a group or club which will apply, administer
and repay the credit given to their members. These groups will be the main
contact points for extension staff (para. 4.04). Individual farmers in LLDP
would continue to qualify for individual credit. The transition to group
credit although adding an element of uncertainty is not expected to alter the
good recoverv performance of farmers.  Medium-term credit uyould be provided
to individuals. The credit procedures proposed for the Project have evolved
through experience and are expected to be adequate durirg the first phase
of NRDP.  There is a question, however, whethet the present Ministry based
orgaaization is the best method in the long term for meeting and administering
the growing amount of credit required for the various agricultural sectors and
for the second phase of NRDP.  It is therefore oroposed that a study be under-
taken and completed during the first 18 months of the project to analyze the
role of credit in Malawi and recommend a long-term credit strategy. Its
recommendations would be discussed with IDA. At negotiations assurances
were obtained that a credit study would be undertaken by Government with the
assistance of consultants working to Terms of Reference prepared by Government
in consultation with IDA; and its recommendations would be discussed with IDA.



- 27 -
NRDP Central Accounting Unit
4.08      The NRDP Central Accounting Unit was established in the Finance
and Administration Section of the Ministry under the pre-investment phase of
KRDP II. It is headed by a Senior Accountant assisted by a Senior Assistant
Accountant. The Unit is divided into sections which deal with Credit and
Development Accounts. Similar sections are present in MUs and DAs working
under the direction of the Central Accounting Unit but for day-to-day admin-
istration and discipline working to the officers in charge of the Mds and DAs.
The accounting system will be based on the main records being held at MU level
with limited physical and financial records held at DA level. Budgetary
control orocedures developed satisfactorily in major projects will be adopted
by NRDP.  An internationally-recruited Systems Analyst Programmer woul-d-be
employed to assisr in the introduction of these procedures and to train staff.
The Financial Coordinator who is in charge of the Credit Program will also
provide guidance on systems and procedures used in the Accounting Section and
continue his present practice of ranning in-house training courses for NRDP
accounting staff to familiarize them with NRDP practices. UJnder NRDP, scholar-
ships will be provided for candidates to attend the Malawi Polytechnic and for
more experienced staff to receive overseas training as necessary.
NRDP Construction Unit and Road Maintenance
4.09      The Senior Construction and Conservation Officer in charge of the
NRDP Construction Unit will be based in MMjR and work to CADO. The Unit will
be split into two sub-units, each about three-fifths the size of the present
LLDP Unit. One will be based at Lilongwe to deal with the North and the other
at Zomba for the South. The Ministry of Works will be consulted at all stages
of the Road Construction Program and procedures have been agreed by an exchange
of letters betw,e:n the two ministries.  NRDP Accounting Services will ccntrol
the funds aad rates will be Thar-ed sufficient to cover the Unit's operations.
DAs will be billed monthly for work done in their area. The present Officer-
in-Charge of the Unit is internationally-recruited. The post requires con-
siderable conservation and machinery experience and organizational qualities.
In view of its importance, it was agreed at negotiations that the post of
Senior Construction  and Conservation Officer in chlarge of the Unit would be
filled by a suitably qualified candidate until completion of the Project. The
Ministry of Works will assume responsibility for maintaining Project roads
which will fall within the Ministry's gazetted responsibility as soon as the
Project Road Construction Unit has completed them. District Councils whicn
have adequate maintenance capacity will assume responsibility also as soon as
the roads have been completed. In cases where District Councils lack the
required capacity, the Ministry of Works will assume responsibility for
maintenance at Project completion until the District Councils in question have
developed the necessary capacity. Assurances on these points were obtained at
negotiations.
Planning Division (including Evaluation)
4.10      The main functions of the MANR Planning Division are:  (a) provision
of baseline data, (b) preparation of projects, (c) evaluation of projects,



- 28 -
(d) collection of marketing data and forecasting of marketing trends, (e) coor-
dination of development estimates and expenditures, (f) processing project
submissions, (g) monitoring the execution of development projects, (h) verify-
irg progress reports, (i) Lraining of planning and evaluation personnel. Each
MU will have an Evaluation Unit whose Officer-in-Charge will report to the DDO
and maintain close liaison with the Planning Division. Regular six-monthly
meetings Gf evaluation and management staff at headquarters, Management Unit
and DA level will be held to discuss and take action on Evaluation Unit
findings.
Technical Assistance
4.11       Most MANR heads of divissn- and staf-f -arz-Malawian,--as a4re- two of-
the project managers of major projects (KRDP and LRDP). However, the pace of
agricultural development in the estate and smallhoider sectors has expanded
job opportunities and absorbed many of the newly trained Malawians so that a
number of expatriates have been retained. Most are supplied through bilateral
assistance and are moved within the ministry as necessary to fill rnew positions
or make way for newly trained Malawian staff. Every effort has been made to
design the Project within the limitations of the output of newly trained
Malawian and existing expatriate staff levels within the Government service.
However, the Project will specifically provide for internatLonal recruitment
of a Financ5al Coordinator, a Systems Analyst/Programmer and a Senior Con-
struction and Conservation Officer. Training posts have been included in the
headquarters costs (3), Programs Division (4) and the Lilongwe Management Unit
(3), as well as scholarships for local and overseas training. Every emphasis
will be given to localization. At negotiations, Government gave assurances
that they would try to fill key posts with Malawians during the course of the
Project and that suitable staff would be provided with on-the-job training to
take over the positions before the expatriates leave.
Manpower
4.12       It is estimated that the Project will require additionally, 27
Professional Officers, 49 Technical Officers and 246 Technical Assistants.
Professional staff should be forthcoming. Technical Officer and Technical
Assistant staff problems, however, are critical. Technical Officer require-
ments will be met through upgrading staff from Technical Assistant level. It
will not, nowever, be possible to meet all the TA requirements with 2-year
certificate men from the Colby Agricultural Training College. It is, there-
fore, intended to recruit school certificate candidates and give them a short
three-month course at the Falls Estate and Mzuzu Training Center before post-
ing them to the field. At negotiations, assurarces were obtained that: (a)
NRDP projects will receive adequate numbers of staff, (b) every effort would
be made to attract Bunda College diplomates for employment at MANR, (c) TA up-
grading examinations and courses will be given top priority and, if necessary,
the expanded facilities at Bunda College would be used for such a course, (d)
existing agriculturalist training institute facilities and staff will be made
available to run the necessary courses for the new TAs to be recruited directly



- 29 -
into MANR service, and (e) further expansion of the NRDP and other MANR
Development Projects would be phased in such a manner that they would allow
the full staffing of NRDP and other major projects to be fulfilled before any
new undertakings were started.
Environmental Efiect
4. 13     The project would have no adverse impact on the environment in the
areas concerned. It would further soil and water conservation by better land
husbandry and improve living conditions through the construction of potable
water resources and the construction and operation of additional public health
facilities.
V. CROP AND LIVESTOCK TECHNICAL DATA AND PRODUCTION
A. Crops
Crop Packages and Yields
5.01      Projections of crop yields and total production for maize, ground-
nuts and tobacco are based upon anticipated adoption by farmers of a package
of crop husbandry practices.  The pac'kages call for the uise of:  (i) good seed
of improved varieties, (ii) fertilizer and manure application in adequate
quantities and at the appropriate stage of crop growth, (iii) correct plant
populations, (iv) sowing and weeding at the right time, (v) adopting the right
rotation, (vi) proper storage of the crop. The packages will be revised and
improved to suit specific environmental conditions and farmers' needs as
more information is evaluated by the strengthened research program.
5.02      In LLDP in particular there is considerable information and expe-
rience on the use of input packages and their effect on crop production.
Maize input packages have been successful and up to targets when applied as
directed. Yields of 3,600 lb/ac or more have been achieved with hybrid maize
and 2,500 lb/ac with the composite. In general, however, farmers have tended
to make their fertilizer go further and ridges have been too wide resulting in
average yields of 2,800 lb/ac for the hybrid, 2,000 lb/ac for the composite
and 980 lb/ac for the local variety,  In the case of dark-fired tobacco prior
to 1968, average yields were in the region of 200 to 250 lb/ac. Subsequently
nitrogen fertilizer and manure were increasingly applied to tobacco so that
average yields during the 1970s have reached 350 lb/ac. The increased yields
of groundnuts are dependent solely or, the use of good seed selected by ADMARC
and improved husbandry practices. The earlier recommendation of sulphur
application has been stopped as it was uneconomic when practised on its own
and consequently has had poor acceptance by farmers. Present average yields
are 400 lb/ac shelled nuts and it is projected that groundnut yields will only
improve slowly unless a break-through is achieved in terms of a higher yield-
ing variety. Experience at Lilongwe has shown that the majority of farmers do
not adopt the full recommended input packages for the various crops. There-
fore for this prr-ject the average yields of 'improved' farmers, i.e., in the



- 30 -
"with Project" situation, are based on this assumption. The yield ievels
currently achieved, i.e., the "without Project" situation, are based on data
from MANR crop surveys.  During the Project average yields are expected to
increase gradually with improvements in husbandry and adoption of input
packages. The following illustrates the project yields expected from LLDP and
Mzimba in lb!acre.  Similar yields with minor variations have been used for
the other IDA-financed DAs.
LLDP                Mzimba
Without       With     Without    With
Project    Project    Project   Project
Year 8                Year 8
-( lb/ac:re;)~T--    
1.   Maize
-  liybrid                       2,800         3,2"O     2,600      2,950
-  Com posite                    2,000        2,400      1,800      2,15()
-  Local and Fectilizer          1,400         1,500     1,3((      1,440
-  Local                           980           980       950        950
2.   Groundnuts (shelled)                400          480        350        430
3.   Tobacco (Dark-Fired)                350          450         -          -
4.   Tobacco (Oriental)                  -             -         430        700
5.03      The adoption rate by farmers (Table T-3) of improved practices has
been estimated after examining Lilongwe and other major project experiences.
For maize, estimates have been made of the acreages on which hybrid and
composite seed and fertil-zer are likely to be applied. The area at LLDP
receiving these inputs w-ill increase from the present 17% of total maize
acreage to 31X, while in other IDA DAs the area will amount to about 15 to 20%.
Average project area maize yields over 8 years will rise by 19 to 23%.  By
cotmparison between 1968 and 1975 LLDP achieved a 17% increase in average maize
yields although in individual years it has been higher (60% in 1971/72).  In
the case of groundnuts increases in yields (20 to 25% depending on DA) will be
obtained through better husbandry although sufficient selected seed for about
10 to 15% of the acreage will be sold to farmers annually.  The increase in
yield forecast covers the cotal area of grotndnuts grown since it is impos-
sible to specify how many faitflcrs and how much improved husbandry each farmer
will apply.  The forecast yield increases are probably the most controversial.
At LLDP yield increases are e,xpected to increase from 400 lb/ac to 480 lb/ac
yet average yields in 1976/77 in the project area were only 7% above those not
covered by the project. However, an analysis of evaluation data shows that at
least 50% of the growers exceeded 400 lb/ac and some get 600 lb/ac, unfortun-
ately many farmers get very low yields; there is also a general correlation of
extension visits and yield levels.  Plant density is usually about half the
recommended level. Lastly, prices paid by ADMARC have not been attractive to
the grower. Groundnuts are an essential part of family diet, an important
export earner and, as a legume, play an important role in the crop rotation to
maintain fertility.  It has, therefore, been assumed that more attention will
and must be given to groundnuts by extension staff, prices for groundnuts will
be made more attractive (para. 6.04) and the project wil imaediately investi-
gate why so many growers have very low yields. Dark fired tobacco yields have
averaged about 350 lb/ac over the period 1970-75. However, between 1971 and



- 31 -
1973 average yields rose to 450 lb/ac and subsequently fell.  The fall coin-
cided with a rise in fertilizer price and a severe drop in fertilizer use.
v. is enly in this last season, 1977/78, tha. terti!'zer ,         eneralyv in LLOLY
has returned to previous levels.  With growing land shortages and reasonable
fertilizer prices it is expected that farmers will be m-ore responsive to
returning to the yield levels achieved in 1973.  Yield increases for oriental
tobacco in Mzimba have been based entirely on Malawlis estiuate of what can
be done- The evidence is, however, rather circumstantial.  Average yields of
oriental are estimated to reach 700 lb/ac and some farmers and even groups of
farmers already achieve this.  Average yield ievels for the past 15 years
have, however, remained at about 400 lb and farmers interes' a. this level
has wavered during these years.  With increases in vields ex-ected from other
crops and the introduction of a flue-cured tobac.o sche-  (          ing L,lDO
lb/ac) it is clear that if oriental tobacco is to cono -tk          yields and
prices (para 6.04) must rise.
5.04      As will be noted from the economic analysis for thn  new DAs covered
by the project (Chapter VII) the foregoing yield increments and adoption rates
are the minimum that must be achieved if the -nvestuentzs proposed are to be
justified; previous failures to match forecasted yield increases have caused
the poor rates of return for Lilongwe.  Thus any failure to meet one target
must be compensated for by increased production in another crop.  Grouninults
and oriental tobacco look the weakest in this package of improvements but
could be compensated for by greater improvemects in maize, and illustrate the
need to try to exceed maize targets.
5.05      The supply of fertilizer to farmers would be organized principally
by ADMARC. The production and supply of seed would be a joint effort between
ADMARC and the Agricultural Research Department of the MANR.  Most of the seed
distributed would be produced in Malawi.  The Agriciltural Research Department
would be responsible for the breeding and selection of improved varieties and
the production of breeder seed.  The inspection and certif-cation of seed
would also rerain with the Department so as to separate t,,e fuinct ions of
quality control and production.  The production of basic seed from breeder
seed and certified seed would be handled by ADMARC at its seed production
farms and contract farms.  It is intended to distribute a locally bred high
yielding hybrid maize in the near future.  Proposals for increasing seed
production generally are adequate.
Crop Production
5.06      Increased crop production would be achieved by:  (i) improvement of
yield levels through wider use of input packages and improved practices, (ii)
expansion of crop acreage.  It is projected that by Year 8 a total of 205,000
acres of maize, 44,000 acres of groundnuts and 66,500 acres of tobacco would
use input packages in all the IDA and non--IDA projects.  On these assumptions
the Project's incremental production would be:  maize - 109,000 sh. tons;
groundnuts - 9,000 sh. tons; dark-fired tobacco 4,500 sh. tons and oriental
tobacco 350 sh tons; rice-3,200 sh. tons.  Details of production are in Table
T-3. These projections are based on mission judgements of adoption rates and
yield forecasts made after examining 1,ilongwe and other major project expe-
rience (paras 5.02 and 5.03).



- 32 -
Farmer's Benefits
5.07      The Project would provide direct and/or i'ndirect services for all
the 322,000 families in the total Project area. An estimated 26Z of these
(82,500 families) are expected to benefit directly from the increased and
intensified crop development efforts by Year 5. Gross margins and returns
per man day for an acre of maize, groundnuts and tobacco are given in Table
T-4. At 1977/78 prices in terms of returns per man day from the three crops,
the advantage is still with tobacco and maize. The farm budgets for an average
size farm in Lilongwe are given in Table T-5. The net income from farms in
all DAs, is summarized below:
Net Income per annum (MK.)
Without Project                     With Project
No Tobacco      With Tobacco      No Tobacco       With Tobacco
LLDP (4.5 ac)        46.73             115.33           77.61             159.31
Mzimba (5 ac)        21.13              44.69           40.73              71.06
Thiwi (4 ac)          2.75              65.32           36.02              93.76
Ntcheu (3.5 ac)        --                 -_ 1/         17.68                -   1/
1/  No expansion of tobacco in Ntcheu is planned.
5.08      The above benefits relate only to the three major crops:  i.e.,
maize, groundauts, and tobacco. There are, however, other crops: e.g.,
cotton, beans, millet, which are grown by farmers. These have not been in-
cluded in the calculations or estimates of farmers benefits because either
the particular crop area is localized or there is insufficient information
for improved packages to be recommended. It can be assumed that benefits from
these crops to farmers would be additional to those from the three major crops.
B. Livestock
5.09      The Government financed LLDP stallfeeding scheme using ranch bred
steers and steers purchased elsewhere in the coun.Zry and issued on credit to
LLDP farmers has exceeded targets (1,500 head fattened in 1977). During the
LLDP consolidation phase, the scheme, which is run by Dzalanyama ranch, will
continue to buy 750 steers from other parts of the country and, as a result of
the increase in the ranchi breeding herd (para 5.12)  the number of ranch-bred
steers will be increased by about 500 head to nearly 1,500 head of which 400
can be credited to the fourth phase.  Smallholders usually fatten steers ir
pairs.  Over 180 days the farmer feeds a mixture of maize germ, groundnut
haulms and napier grass, increasing the weight of the animal from about 565
lbs to 785 lbs.  The farmer nets between K 24 to K 31 per steer, depending on
weight and grade, after deducting credit charges, transport and K 18 for feed.



- 33 -
5.10      In Thiwi-Lifidzi DA and Ntcheu DA the 6 dips will serve 10,700 cat-
tle not properly covered by the animal healthi program at present. Thiwi-
Lifidzi already has a high cattle poplAation so thiat herd growth is not
expected to increase at more than 2% per annum. Benefits would come maiuly
from lower mortality resulting in an increased offtake from 10 to 12% providing
there is some improvement in grazing management. A small increase in average
carcass weight over 14 years from 290 to 312 lb cold dressed weight is fore-
cast. At Ntcheu, the dips will be built in areas with less grazing pressure,
and herd growth is expected to increase from 3.3% per annum to 4.5% per annum,
offtake will gradually increase by 2 percentage points and the average live-
weight of aaimals will eventually rise frora 290 lb to 330 lb. In each of the
2 DAs 420 stallfeeders are scheduled to be fattened by 1997; this is a very
modest target. In Mzimba no estimate of increases in cattle, production have-.:
been made as the grazing organization has yet to be developed. A UNDP/FAO
program, however, has established the technical value of growing legumes and
paddocking. In all DAs a major effort will be made to organize grazing and
investigate methods for maintaining the correct stocking capacities; increasing
stallfeeding and introduction of dairying will greatly assist in the introduc-
tion of a rationalizated grazing policy which is essential if overgrazing and
in subsequent erosion is not to occur in future.
5.11      Dairy.  Under the Lilongwe consolidation phase 150 farmers will be
supplied with 300 dairy cows over the next 5 years.  Budgets have been based
on a farmer receiving 2 Friesian/Zebu in-calf heifers. Each cow is expected
to have 4 lactations, a calving interval of 15 months and produce 350 gallons
per lactation. Existing dairy farmers are getting slightly higher yields; the
best farmers are likely to be selected for this program. A farmer with two
dairy animals, paying his loan back over 5 years could net an average MK 90 to
IlK 110 per annum. The farmer will run into a cash flow problem if asked to
repay his loan earlier; he will continue to pay cow mortality insurance during
the period of his loan.
5.12      Dzalanyama ranch in LLDP has not expanded at the rate originallv
expected because weaning rates (62%), mortality (5%) and culling of local
breeding stock were worse than forecast. In order to increase the present
number of 7,900 head to the carrying capacity of 15,500 head a further 2,300
breeding females will be purchased under the project. Weaning rates are
forecast to increase slowly to 65Z by 1982 and overall mortality will remain
at about 5%. By full development in 1985 the offtake will be 17% or 2,650
head. In addition, 750 purchased steers annually will be fattened for a short
period on the ranch prior to being issued to smallhoiders. Because of low
producer prices the ranch presently has a negative cash flow. Recommendations
for increasing prices are being made (para. 6.05).
5.13      Poultry.  Under the third phase 60 poultry keepers have been estab-
lished with credit based on a battery-cage laying unit of 100 hybrid layer
chicks. Mortality (5-35%) has been higher than forecast (4-10%) with the
result that total production per unit is lower, although birds surviving
reach the target of 20 dozen eggs per bird; - -cked eggs are high (20% initi-
allv, now down to 10%). There have been di.. _lties with food supplies and
marketing (the latter because of oversupply froz' large producers) and egg



- 34 -
prices have hardly moved (e.g. medium eggs 55t per dozen 1975; 56t per dozen
in 1977) while feed costs have risen 32% in the same period. Smaliholder
poultry is therefore still in the pilot stage. The LLDP management is however
confident that these problems can be overcome by better extension and improve-
ment in egg prices. Funds sufficient for a further 40 loans have been included
in Phase IV, but these will only be issued after management has shown that it
can overcome the problems presently facing this sector.
VI. MARKETS AND PRICES
Marketing
6.01       Annuial Project output at full development (1985) is estimated at
some 109,000 sh. tons of maize, 9,000 sh. tons of groundauts, 4,500 sh. tons
of dark-f 7red tobacco, 350 sh. tons oriental tobaeco, 3,200 she tons rice,
400 sh. tons of meat aad some 85,000 gallons of milk. This represents about
11% of the country's 1977 total production of maize, 25% of ADMARC purchased
groundnuts, 21% of dark-fired tobacco, 12% of rice, 3% of total meat and 8% of
marketed milk production. Sufficient demand is projected for Project output
and marketing arrangements are well organized. As in previous projects ADHARC
would buy the surplus produce for sale, mostly for the export market. Farmers
would also sell directly to the consumer and traders. The Cold Storage
Company (CSC) would buy beef for local consumption. Capital Dairy would buy
and process milk for sale within Malawi.
6.02       Prospects for increasing exports of dark-fired tobacco and providing
a market for project production exist but will be dependent on active market-
Ing by ADMARC. Because of limited future marketing prospects and the need for
another smallholder cash crop and revenue earner, Government has been urged to
consider growing burley tobacco ir smallholder areas. At present, this crop
is grown by small tenant farmers only on large estates because it is confined
by legislation to estates. Returns from burley are good. In view of its
imoortance, assurances were obtained from Government at negotiations that it
would consider introducing burley tobacco into smallholder areas and if proved
fea3ible would prepare a pilot scheme for implementation in October 1979 in an
NRDP area.
Prices
6.03       Government, in consultation with ADMARC and CSC, fixes the rinimum
buying prices for crops and livestock. In the past, Government and ADMARC
pricing policy has been geared to building a price support reserve, increasing
producer prices slowly, maintaining maize self-sufficiency, holding consumer
prices and more particularly building up ADMARC surpluses for investment
purposes. Producer prices for certain crops have deci-ined in real terms in
recent years as the combined result of these policies. There is evidence
that for groundnuts and cotton in some areas the returns per manday have been
much less than maize and rice, resulting in farmers giving more attention to
the latter at the expense of the former. Production of oriental tobacco is



- 5 -
also adversely affected. Present pricing policies do not appear to be in the
best interest of expanding production in smalltholder areas. There is consid-
erable division of opinion in Treasury, MANR and ADMARC.  The problems are
complex. Apart from the primary need to define overall pricing and marketing
policy objectives and relate them to specific objectives, there is need to
define more clearly how the pricing mechanism should be used to achieve the
production objectives. To give greater emphasis to marketing efficiency and
smallholder marketing and pricing problems in ADMARC, consideration should
be given to splitting the marketing and development aspects of ADMARC's
operations, putting them under separate deputy managing directors with clearly
defined roles and objectives.  In this respect it is recommended that ADMARC
reconsider its organizational structure in the light of its changed finances
and increased development responsibilities.
6.04      In order that marketing and pricing policy can be fu!ly considered,
a statutory or official pricing committee would be established at the com-
mencement of the project consisting of members from Treasury, MANR, AD-MARC and
the Economic Planning Division of the Office of the President and Cabinet.
The committee would keep prices under review aad submit a report to the Board
of ADMARC for consideration by the Minister of Agricultujre.  Within 18 months
of project commencement, Government would review marketing and pricing poli-
cies and prepare a report, in consultation with IDA, defining the marketing
and pricing criteria and policies Government proposes to adopt. The pricing
committee would review annually as part of its price and marketing analysis
the production targets and achIevements of NRDP. It would comment on the
efficacy of its pricing policies in meeting these targets and the committee
would communicate these comments through the Treasury to IDA. An assurance on
these points was obtained at negotiations. ADMARC would appoint economists
at its headquarters to deal with pricing, economic and marketing issues.
To improve marketing and input supplies ADMARC would staff its headquarters,
markets and stores with liaison personnel in sufficient numbers to neet the
input and marketing needs of NRDP development areas.  Assurances on these
points were also obtained at negotiations.
6.05      Producer meat prices have not been changed ;ince 1975.  Between 1968
and 1977 producer prices for maize rose 109% while that for prime quality meat
rose 54X.  Stallfeeders still find fattening cattle profitable because o' the
low cost of crop by-products for feeding. An increase in producer meat prices
would be necessary if the annual veterinary charge of 10 t per head per year
collected at the dips were to be increased. Prices are insufficient to pro-
vide a financial return on ranching and cash flow projections for Dzalanyama
ranch suggest that the ranch will continue to need C-overnment operating
subsidies in future; this is undesirable when Government requires all the
revenue it can get and represents a subsidy in this instance to the urban
consumer and smallholder stallfeeder who fattens the ranch steers. In view
of the need to encourage the beef industry, Government woulld review prices
and producer incentives regularly (para 6.04). It is a condition of dis-
bursement on capi.al items for Dzalanyama ranch that Government has ad-
justed prices sufficiently to provide for a reasonable operating cash flow on
the ranch.



- 36 -
vI r. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AJJD JUSTIFICATION
7.01      To obtain an overall picture of NRDP, estimates of the total re-
quirements, costs, output and bene'-iciaries have been aggregated from dif-
ferent appraisal teams anid preparation ieports. Since some co-financiers have
not appraised all their components and others have not completed processing
their loan documents it has not been possible to establish the astimated
economic internal rate of returni for the entire Phase I of the NRDP.  Each
co-financier is preparing its own IRR for its respective components and each
plans to include in its analysis a share of the common services provided by
IDA and EDF.  This report's assessment of economic bernefits and justification
will therefore apply to the IDA and CIDA components specifically although its
generalities are likely to be applicable to other co-financier components.
7.02      The IDA  tinanced components would consolidate smallholder farming
in Lilongwe and develop new smallholder farming schemes in Thiwi-Lifidzi,
Ntcheu and Mzimba. The economic analysis of the project is based on the
expected quantifiable benefits fronm the increased production of matze,
groundnucs, tobacco, milk and meat. At full development (year 11) the net
annual incremental benefit attributable to the IDA components would be about
HK 10 milion (US$12 million) of which an estimated 70-80% would be foreign
exchange earnings. The project would have a number of secondary benefits
which are more difficult to quantify stemming from improved health services,
roads, water supplies, and firewood supply.  Positive spillover effects would
further accrue from expected nutritional betterment of the people living in
the areas and institution building effects. The Project would also provide
consuitant services and training directed to further improve the efficiency
of the development efforts.
7.03      The internal rate of return f- the IDA components is estimated at
43% over twenty years (Table T-6); costs and benefits are based on 1978 con-
stant prices. Export parity prices have been used for tobacco and groundnuts
and import prices for meat.  Maize prices have been calculated on the basis
that six years out of seven the country exports maize and in the seventh it
has to import it.  IBRD commodity price forecasts have been used.  The cost
stream includes all economic costs stemming from the Project (investment and
operations) which are yield related. Included are the development costs of
LLDP, Thiwi-Lifidzi, Ntcheu and Mzimba and their estimated shares in the
Management Units and Central Services, and farm input costs such as fer-
tilizer, seed and labor.  Excluded from the economic calculation are health
and forestry costs as no beaef-its were attribLtted to these inputs.  Wages and
salaries are priced at market rates arnd 75% of the additional family labor in
LLDP required and 25% in the other NRDP areas has been costed at the labor
wage rate for unskilled labor. The different rates are based on different
labor market conditions; demand is higher in Lilongwe than other areas due
to the impact of the growth of tile capital city and LLDP project activities.
Foreign exchange has not been shadow priced as it is properly valued.  Oiuly
the cost for technical experts accruing to Malawi has been coste-i, i.e., the
opportunity cost of the grant clement was assumed to be zero. Taxes and
subsidies have been excluded from the calculation.  Physical contingencies
on all development costs ranging between 5% and 10% have been included
(para. 3.33).



- 37 -
7.04      The high IRR is due to "sunk" development costs of the first three
phases of LLDP. The internal rates of return for the various Project areas
have been calculated as follows:
Internal Rate           Share of
of Return        Total Project Cost
%               ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
LLDP IV                           68                    54
Thiwi-Lifidzi                     13                    17
Ntcheu                             7                    15
Mzimba                            11                    14
Total Project:                    43                   100
The Project components financed by EDF and UK are being tested separately by
those agencies. The three DAs tested so far have satisfactory internal rates
of return. Phalombe (UK) has an IRR of 12.5% while Henga and Nchisi (EDF)
exceed 20%. !wanza and Kawinga have yet to be appraised.
7.05      Ntcheu is expected to produce an economic internal rate of return
of at least 7% on quantifiable benefits which is a relatively low rate. The
area does not have an easily quantifiable high valued cash crop like tobacco
to improve its IRR. It does, however, grow a little cotton in the low country
and fruit, vegetables and potatoes in the high areas, the latter being sold in
Lilongwe. The Project will increase production of these crops. This increase
has not been quantified but would improve the conservatively estimated IRR.
It was, however, impossible to obtain any reliable data on which to base any
packages of production forecasts for them; the Project will, therefore, give
priority to the development of suitable packages for these crops. Ntcheu has
been included for a number of other reasons. It has poor services, yet is
quite heavily populated. Much of the land is subject to or potentially
subject to erosion and 1-7    d of improved husbandry.  Incomes are low (MK 60
per family gross income, compared with a national average income of MK 126)
and employment opportunities outside agriculture almost non-existent. As a
consequence, Ntcneu has the second highest migration rate in Malawi, with
people seeking work mainly in the mines in neighboring countries. The Project
would raise the average participating farmers' gross income by 50% and good
farmers would do better. Furthermore, the Project, by providing much needed
infrastructure would provide the necessary basis for further development
phases in Ntcheu.
7.06      The IRR of the incremental investments on the Ozalanyama ranch under
NRDP is 18%. In Lilongwe, the 'Without' Project situation is defined by the
actual and projected cost and benefit streams stemming from the program -
Phases I, II and III combined. The necessary inputs have been estimated to
maintain the level of benefits achieved under the first three phases ('Without'
situation).  Historically, the economic internal rate of return of the first
three phases in LLDP has been estimated at minus 2% applying 1978 constant
prices and projecting cost anr4 benefit streams over 20 more years (10 actual
years). It may be argued that some of the benefits attributed to the Phase
IV program phase accrue only because of investments under the previous phases,



- 38 -
and consequently, some of the benefits of the fourth phase should be trans-
ferred to the previous phases. However, as the additional benefits would
only accrue as a result of the consolidation phase, these benefits have been
attributed to the Project. The economic internal rate of return of the total
program LLDP Phases I, II, III and IV is estimated at 12%. The same rate of
return (12%) would be applicable for the combined four phases of LLDP and the
three new IDA financed DAs.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.07      Sensitivity tests have shown that the internal economic rate of
return of the IDA component is relatively insensitive to changes in costs and
-benefits within probable ranges.  One year delay in benefits would, however,
reduce the rate of return to about 28%. A 10% increase in costs is estimated
to yield a rate of return of about 37%, a 20% increase in costs of about 32%.
Likewise, a 10% reduction in benefits would decrease the rate of return to
about 36%. However, if tobacco had to be replaced by maize because the
additional tobacco crop could not be exported the rate would drop to about
24%. For the new IDA financed DAs, a 10% increase in costs or a 10% decrease
in benefits or a one year delay in benefits would reduce the IRRs for Thiwi-
Lifidzi and Ntcheu by 4 percentage points to 9 and 3% respectiv 3ly and at
Mzimba by 3 percentages points to 8%.
Labor Generated and Income Distribution
7.08      In crop production alone, employment on IDA financed schemes vould
increase by 4 million maadays in the fifth year, equivalent to about 15,000
permanent unskilled laborers. A sizeable portion of the labor requirement
would be absorbed by farmers (under-employed) themselves and the remainder by
the growth in population and unemployed casual labor. Additional employment
stemming from the IDA Project investments would accrue in the new areas of
Thiwi-Lifidzi, Ntcheu and Mzimba. The Project is expected to increase the per
capita income of about 82,000 families. A typical Project farm family would
earn a net annual incor- in LLDF - about MK 160 compared to about MK 115 at
the end of the third plase and the national average income of MK 126. Farm
income in thie other Project areas would be considerably lower although the
growth in incomes would surpass 40% (para. 5.07).
Project Risks
7.09      From past experience the risks most likely to affect the Project's
rate of return would be lower production levels arising from slower adoption
of improved husbaniry and lower than expected use of fertilizer and seed.
This possibility would be increased if input prices increased considerably
while output prices remained unchanged. Halving maize and tobacco yields
and subsequently reducing the fertilizer use would reduce the internal rate
of return to about 36%. The emphasis placed on the need for better extension
and more responsive pricing poticies is meant to reduce this possibility.
Another risk affecting _he Project would be if the dark-fired tobacco could
not be sold and had to be replaced by another crop, probably maize; this would
result in a halving of the IRR. The proposal to introduce burley tobacco
could counter this.



- 39 -
Government Budget Implications
7.10      Goverzment's cash flow after an initial period of a negative balance
would soon recover the Project's ongoing expenditures. The cumulative inflow
stemming from the Project (including the EDF, UK and CIDA components) in year
12 would amount to about MK 2.7 million.  After completion the annual net
cash balance would amount to an estimated MK 0.4 million per annum(Table T-7).
This positive development has three major causes: (i) the EDF, UK and CIDA
grant element and favorable IDA terms; (ii) the assumption that the profits
generated by the Project and earned by ADMARC would be transferred to the
Government's budget; and (iii) that tobacco (the major profit generating crop
for ADMARC) would be produced as envisaged. With a reduction in tobacco
output Government's positive cash flow would rapidly turn negative.
7.11      Government cannot assure that the favorable conditions associated
with this Project would continue for future NRDP projects. It is, therefore,
important that Government increases its revenues and encourages, for taxation
purposes, higher priced cash crops with good marketing prospects such as
burley or flue-cured tobacco. This is particularly important if ADMARC is to
reduce its profit margins on cotton and groundnuts to stimulate production
of those crops. At negotiation assurances were therefore obtained that:
(i) Government would prepare to submit to IDA for comments by end September
1979 a report on the budgetary implications of its national development program
and the measures it proposes to follow to ensure the progress and viability of
the program. (ii) MAINR would establish an internal study group to make recom-
mendations on how best revenues can be increased from MANR services and
facilities; and (iii) Covernment would inform IDA before it proposes to
develop any new areas outside those proposed for NRDP Phase I (Lilongwe,
Thiwi-Lifidzi, Ntcheu, Henga Valley, Ntchisi, Mwanza, Phalombe and Kawinga)
and take IDA's comment into consideration in deciding on any such development.
VIII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8. )1     During negotiations agreements were reached on the follTwing points7
(a)  Government would transfer an increasing share of Project
operating costs of essential services on to revenue
account according to an agreed schedule. In the case of
Lilongwe it would meet at least 80% of these costs by the
fifth year, and in the case of LADD Management Unit, MANR's
Central Services, and Thiwi-Lifidzi, Ntcheu and Mzimba DAs.
Government would take over at least 20% of the cost of the
essential services by the fifth year (para 3.40);
(b)  within three months of completion of disbursement under
the IDA project, Government would prepare a Pro,ect
Completion Report in accordance with Bank/IDA guide-
lines (para. 3.41).



- 40 -
(c) Government would carry out by December 31, 1979 a study
to examine and make recommendations on the present staffing
levels and work programs of MANR to improve the agricultural
extension services; the study would be carried out by consultants
appointed in consultation with IDA and using Terms of Reference
agreed to by IDA. Within 6 months of completion of the study
Government would discuss with IDA the implementation of its
conclusions (para. 4.05);
(d)  The Financial Coordinator would supervise the credit program
and a Senior Agricultural Credit Officer would be appointed
to help administer the program. Both these posts would be
filled by suitably qualified candidates whose selection
would be made in consultation with IDA (para 4.06);
(e) a credit study would be undertaken by Government with the
assistance of consultants working to Terms of Reference
prepared by Government in consultation with IDA; its
recommendations would be discussed with IDA (para. 4.07);
(f) the post of Senior Construction and Conservation Officer
in charge of the Construction Unit would be filled by a
suitably qualified person until the completion of the
Project (para 4.09);
(g) the Ministry of Works would assume responsibility for
maintaining those roads which would fall within the
Ministry's gazettad responsiblity as soon as the
Project Road Construction Unit has completed them.
District Councils which have adequate maintenance
capacity would assume responsibility for roads within
their areas soon as the roads have been completed. In
cases where District Councils lack the required capacity
the Ministry of Works will assume resp__  bility for
maintenance at project completion until the District
Councils in question have developed the necessary
capacity (para 4.09);
(h) Government would try to fi'l key posts with Malawians during
the course of the Project and suitable staff would be
given the opportunity for on-the-job training to take over
their positions before expatriates leave (para. 4.11);
(1) (i) Adequate staff from MANR would be allocated for
the NFPJ Projects; (ii) every effort would be made to
attract Bunda College diplomates to work in MANR until
its TO establishment has been filled; (iii) TA upgrading
examinations and courses would be given priority and
that -if necessary the expanded facilities at Bunda
College would be used for such courses. Existing agri-
cultural training institute facilities and staff should



- 41 -
be made available to run the necessary courses for the
new TAs to be directly recruited into MALNR service; (iv)
further expansion of the NRDP and other MANR development
projects would be phased in such a manner that they would
allow the full staffing of NRDP and other major projects
to be fulfilled before new development undertakings were
started (para. ".12).
(j) Government would study the possibility of introducing
burley tobacco into smallholder areas and if proved
feasible should prepare a pilot scheme for implementation
in October 1979 in an NRDP area (para. 6.02).
(k) Government would establish a pricing advisory committee
consisting of representatives from Treasury, MANR, ADMARC
and the Economic Planning Division of the Office of the
President and Cabinet which would review agricultural
marketing and pricing policies at least once each year.
The committee would prepare a report, recording the views
of all members, as well as recommendations for submission
to the Board of ADMARC for consideration by the Minister
for Agriculture and Natural Resources. The pricing
committee would also review annually as part of its price
and marketing analysis the production targets and achieve-
ments of NRDP. It would comment on the efficacy of its
pricing policies in meeting these targets and the comments
would be communicated to IDA (para. 6.04).
(1) Within 18 months of Project commencement, Government
would review with IDA the marketing and pricing policies
and would prepare a report defining the marketing and
pricing criteria and policies Government proposes to
adopt in the future (para. 6.04).
(m)  ADMARC would provide economists in their headquarters to
deal with pricing, economic and marketing issues; and staff
its headquarters markets and stores with liaison personnel in
sufficient numbers to meet the input and marketing needs of
NRDP (para. 6.04)
(n)  Government would prepare and submit to IDA for comments
by end September 1979 a report on the budgetarv implica-
tions of the national development program and the meas-
ures it proposes to follow to ensure the progress and
viability of the program (para. 7.11);
(o)  MANR would establish an internal study group to make
recommendations on how best revenues can be increased
from MANR services and facilities (para. 7.11).



- 42 -
(r)  Government would inforn IDA before it proposes to develop any
new DAs outside those proposed for NRDP Phase I (Lilongwe,
Thiwi-Lifidzi, Ntcheu, Henga Valley, Nchisi, Mwanza, Phalombe
and Kawinga) and take IDA's comments into consideration in
deciding on any such development (para. 7.11).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be dependent on:
(a)  The Borrower having obtained the EDF grant and financing
under the UK grant; and
(b) the satisfactory implementation of any conditions re-
quired by EDF, CIDA and UK, as conditions of their participation.
8.03      A condition of disbursement on project studies would be that Govern-
ment and IDA had reached agreement on the teras of reference and coasultants
to be used for the studies.
8.04      A condition of disbursement on the Dzalanyama ranching component
would be a satisfactory adjustment of producer meat prices sufficient to
give a positive cash flow on the ranch (para 6.05).
8.05      Any project-related expenditures _ncurred after the final dis-
bursements for the Phase III, Lilongwe Land Development Project and the
pre-investment phase of NRDP under KRDP II project would be eligible for
retroactive financing (para. 3.37). Subject to the above assurances and
conditions being met the project would be suitable for IDA's participation by
granting a credit of US$22.0 million to the Government of Malaw-i.



- 43 -
ble T-1
MAma~
-_ '3._ 452. DIVi1098E8Z E802Zs~ (36DP) iSASE I ?YWJECT
of irolett Coet F   Eaffe of Go.eo.,o  ToveOr
of op.rargCoat"  -o Reee A.
Year  1      Tear 2        Tr 3        yTsr 4        Yesr  5                F...ig  2
1978/79      1979/Y0      19Y0;S1      19YIlYZ       19SZ/83      tr.1       7.         7o:
. S.yof protect Co-fe
Gordl Screlca
~e61oa1  sod Arrotwor     Serte.          433           414        281            317          293       : 733       38           b57
Cooteotioo t1it                             60           60         60             60           60         300      ;00           300
TLAfrfr4 Fc5ititte                         60             4          s              4            5          78       19            LS
Pt.mobx DOLis.                            172           100        147             75           92         536       46          271
7od ffs4..dry 6   .Istoo                   155          165        264            244          160         988       7'7          759
1eaearrh sod  rWil.                        107           65         64             55           53         344       36           125
Stodlel                                    100           30         -               -           -          130       95           123
16           16         17             17           1'          S3       13            13
*-   S,&-T.t4:                           1.103          854        838            77           680       4,247       54        2.263
KsoMs t Mlt
LIoogePe                                   908          748        647            616          o30        3.3.;9     32         1.134
Devrlo    t OPe,
7ioogoo Coolido                         1.216        1.121        990            915          712       '.954       31         1.S24
Th81-1.Ifidal 0D                          666           535        280            235          265       1,981       36           711
esbro tA                                    4           599        960            445          311       2.319       35          S00
Mtl.6. 'A                                  620          A17        256            Z54          24Y       :95         41           820
Tot51 3e Costs                          4,517         4.474      3,971          3.237        2.846      19.045       38        7.252
"Io*3 Coorl0eoe                           260           279        249            175          148       1._11       38          424
Price COoto_ols                            397          865      1.112          1n55         1.151       4.580       38        1.740
T.ta1:                                  5.174         5.618      5.332          4,467        4,145      24.736       38        9,416
Enw-FI8bU" CM90O312
COteoCt1    uit (Centrsi                   773          773         -               -           -        1.346      100        1,546
_      I 3                                 465          390        451            461          236       2,003       38           761
II.j DA                                  1.415          761        537            281          253       3.247       30           974
..*  Va11e  D6                                1A4.                 $3             295          280       2.592       29           752
Tlallobipa                                              1. 34     -.J7          ..j0         --L           610,      -59
lotal Bw* Cost.                         2.707         3,494      1.76 1         1.397          890       9.988       43        A 622
Corlo aoCa                                 639     *i7             37             257          191       2.373       43           977
loCal Cost.                              3.340       4T301       2.095          1,45A        1.061      12.771       4      3     5"9
UK-FllD=   1       5poi
11lo..       -   9   (C.cl S e.)   28                    28        200            200           -          456       16           73
31s.tyre N                                  S4          229        315            370          402       1.400       47          658
8ba.be 13D                               3,032          625        307            308          272       4.544       38        1,727
_   Z IA                                                977      1.011            274          248       2.510       36          904
Tal> 3.. colt.                          3.144 I.859              1.833          1.t52          922       S.910       38        3,358
coae4-iocies                            -76             465        458            288          231       2 228        -          94"
&btal C-tS                              3.93          2.2        2.282                       1.15 7§
Zob 3                                      834          482        758            547          475       3.096       37        1,141
nC. DA                                  j,34            226        354            320          221        463        4.02
21a 3cae Coats                           2,276          708      1.112            867          696       5,559       39        2 161
Coat6og  Iss                               435          141        222            173          139       1.1u0       39          433
To1  . Cots                             2.6u            849      1,334          1,040          835       6.669       39        2.594
loc aa Be Coatc                        12.538        10.535      8.632          6.453        5.354      43,3j3       40       17.353
C,ostoeclaa                              2.517        2.55L      2.420          1:94         1.860      11.302       39        4_42
7oa C-ot.                               15.055       13.092     11.052          8.402        7,224      54.814       40       22.773
WM:   he .9pp.il te_ bat      to aed tkbe eeoditre  ore esoly o.er te period (a lo  of tho early  pedlore 1 iofraetrscoere.
ILk, roa d od b.Ild35ge), bot Obre is still too  -r1. 1be first   M  ars sod sce sIllppsyo fr. cb ex ra11 ecOrete, is likely
to t~ p;ata.
B. Bsoe Coats £#(000)
?8Jtbocd OPrat1   Coat, t tb1ao C~latioo  lJ
Caoteal Saeoa                               -           389        389             389         389                    --
L60                                         -           579        379            379          379                    _ 
lolal-Il f8,1  tC?Xeo. i~aD6.               .           469        469            469          469
-         1.437      1.437          1.437        1,437                    _           -
ft7.ed9 tO be 0..  ?re  by CoDot
on 3e,500a knote                       -           -          -              143          3Y6
L1102g_ 70a Op rae8og Coat. -
~aeI-tV                         1.007         1. - 7     1.007          1.007        1.C07                                 -
Ptpad  to b4 t*n oa<r by Coa_n.t    492                 572        622            77.2         814                    -
7/  7h COtS rt tast tbe -aK1 tacrest sopUtora osooaso  to roach  no   ot?lo che pe?ojeot! 0 rodootlo?r oh lott tor  (pars 3.4C).
May 29. 19783



- 44-                                 Table T-2
Page 1
MALA.E
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRO  A-M (NRDP) PHASE I PROJECT
Projected Credit Fund - IDA Development Areas
(&'OOO)
-          -  __-Year--------
LILONGWE:                                     1         2        3         4         5
Balance brought forward                     2,119.5 1/2,211.7 2,332.5  2,502.9   2,665.7
New funds required                                  -        -
Funds available for lending                2,119.5  2,211.7  2,332.5  2,502.9   2,665.7
Less:  Purchase of inputs on loan
Seasonal                            1,198.9  1,273.9  1,359.3  1,437.0   1,562.3
Medium-term                            42.7      43.7     45.4      47.0       47.0
Stallfeeders                          114.4    123.7      92.6    128.6       151.9
Dairy                                   6.3       7.9      9.4      11.0       12.6
Poultry                                18.8      1.8&    18i8       1m..   ..18
T o t a 1 :                         1,381.1  1,468.0  1,525.5  1,642.4   1.792.6
Loan repayments:
Seasonal                            1,313.0  1,393.4  1,486.4  1,569.8   1,706.0
Medium-term                            15.2      19.3     33.7      48.6       58.9
Stallfeeders                           98.4    121.6    110.3    112.9       143.2
Dairy                                   2.7       5.0      8.1      8.9       10.7
Poultry                                12.7      17.9     23.2     28-5       23.5
T o t a 1 :                         1,442.0  1,557.2  1,661.7  1,768.7   1,942.3
Surplus fund 2/                              769.7    775.3    841.2    897.0       873.1
Balance                                    2,211.7  2,332.5  2,502.9  2,665.7   2,815.4
TRIWI-LIFIDZI:
Balance brought forward                   37.0 1/  56.4    100.3    149.7    198.4
New funds required                        23.5      60.3     64.0     61.1      73.9
Funds available for lending               60.5    116.7    164.3    210.8    272.3
Less: Purchase of inputs
Seasonal                           55.9    104.7    147.0    188.0    244.0
Medium-Term                         4.6     12.0      17.3     22.8      28.3
60.5    116.7    164.3    210.8    272.3
Loan Repayments:
Seasonal                          56.4      98.8    144.3    187.4    238.9
Medium-Term                          -       1,5      5.4      11.0     18.5
Balance                                  56.4    100.3    149.7    198.4    257.4
1/ Based ou estimated Bank balance at the beginning of the Project.
T Interest, received from Treasury 4.252 p.a. included.



- 45 -                               Table T-2
Page 2
NTCHEU:                                               2         3        4         5
Balance brought forvard                     -         -      25.9      58.1      99.3
New funds required                           -      34.5     51.3      52.7      45.6
Funds available for lending                 -       34.5     77.2    110.8    144.9
Less:  Purchase of inputs on loan
Seasonal                             -      31.4      67.9      97.4    127.6
Medium-Term                          -        3.1      9.3      13.4      17.3
34.5     77.2    110.8    144.9
Loan Repayments:
Seasonal                             -      25.9      57.1     95.2    126.7
Medium-Term                          _         -       1.0       4.1      8.4
Balance                                     -       25.9     58.1      99.3    135.1
MZIMEA:
Balance brought forward                     -       32.1     62.1      99.7    141.9
New funds required                        36.6      62.7     78.0      93.7      88.6
Funds available for lending               36.6      94.8    140.1    193.4    230.5
Less:  Purchase of inputs en loan
Seasonal                          37.2      58.7     82.6    103.4    130.5
Medium-Term                         9.4     36.1      57.5     90.0    100.0
36.6     94.8    140.1    193.4    230.5
Loan Repayments:
Seasonal                           32.1     59.2     84.7    108.0    136.4
Medium-Term                          -       2.9      15.0     33.9      63.0
Balance                                   32.1     62.1      99.7    141.9    199.4



- 4.6 -                                           Table T-3
-NATIONAL RURAL DEIELOP!M?T PROGRM (NRDP) PEASE I PROJECT
A. Total and Tncremental P'roduction - IDA Derelopment Areas
LLDP                  Nzimba DA               Thivi DA                Ntcheu DA
Year          0           8          0           8           0           8           0           8
MkAIZE
'Hrbrid
Acreage                           9,360      25,875         -         1,392         -         3,232         -         2,139
Yield (:b/acre)                   2,800       3,200         --        2,950         --        2,850         -         2,750
With Project (Sh.T.)                -        41,400         --        2,053         -         4,606         -         2,941
Without Project (Sh.T.)          13,104      13,104         -_           _           -           
Increase (Sh.T.)                    --       28,296         --       2,053          -        4,606          --        2,941
Copos ite
Acreage                           6,240      29,325         --        3,247         -         7,542            -      6,704-  
Yieid (lb/acre)                   2,000       2,400         --_       2,150         --        2,050         --        2,000
With Project (S_.T.)                --       35,190         ___       3,491         ---       7,730         -         6,704
Without Project (Sh.I )           6,240       6,240          _--                                                        ---
Increase (Sh..)-                             28,950         --        3,491         -        7,730                   6,704
Local & Fertilizer
Acreage                          37,440      50,025                   4,175         -         9,696         --        5,347
Yield (lb/acre)                   1,400       1,50          _ _       1,440         -         1,240                   1,220
;With Project (Sh.T.)               -        37,519         ---       3,006                   6,011         --        3,262
Without Project (ShlT.)          26,208      26,208         --          ---         -           --                      --
lacrease (Sh.T1)                    --       11,311         --        3,006         ---      6,011          --       3,262
Local
Acreage                         258,960    239,775       40,800      37,572      94,700      87,270      84,368      82,584
Yield (lb/acre)                     980         980         950         950         S00         800         800         800
With Project (ShbT.j                -       117,490         -        17,847         -        34,908         -        33,034
Without Project (Sh.T.)         126,890    143,060       19,380      22,033      37,880     43,096       33,747      38,710
Increase (h'.T.)                    -       -25,570         -        -4,186         --      -8,188          -       -5,676
Total Acreaae                   312,000    345,000       40,800      46,386      94,700    107,740       84,368     96,774
Total Prod  w/Proj. (Sh.T.)         -       231,599         -        25,924         -        53.255         -        45,941
Total Prod. vithout Proj.
(Sh.T.)                     172,442    188,612       19,380      22,033      37,880      43,096      33,747      38,710
Increase (Sh.T.)                    -        42,987         --       4,364          -       10,159          -         7,231
GROUNDST1
Acreage                         125,000    138,000       10,880      12,370      14.305      i6,275      10,530     11,972
Yield (lb/acre)                     400         480         350         430         320         400         250         320
Production with Project
(Sh T.)                         -        33,120         -         2,660         --        3,255         -         1,915
Production. without Project
(Sh.T.)                      25,000      27,600       1,904       2,165       2,289       2,604       1,316       1,496
lacrease (Sh.T )                    -         5,520         --         495          --         651          --          419
TOBACCO
Acreage                          65,00      72,000       2,040       2,319       2,575       2,930                     --
Yield (lb/acre)                     350         450         400         700         270         350
Production with Project
(Sh 71)                         -        16,200         -           812         -           513
Production without Project
(Sh.lT)                      11,375      12,600         408         464         348         396
J icrease (Shj.-)                   -         3,600         -           348        -           117
B.  SznarY of Both WDA and Non=- A Pro4,ects
(Year 8) (Sh. tons)
Crop                LLDP               Other IDA                 Others 1/           Total
Kaize              42,900               22,100                    44,600             109,200
Groumd=mt           5,500                1,500                     2.000               9,000
Tobacco             3,600                  470                       730               4,800
Rlce                 -                                             3,200               3,200
-/  Only appratiseti productioo targets are available for Pbao1mbe (an ongo_ng ochee) Which wiLd  have 362 of its area
in improved varieties in year E.  Production _rteta for other DAm (Numnza, Nrchis, 8eaga and  1avinga) have been
taken frcm preparation docents aud they are likely to have bee  or  tU  be staled down conAiderably following
Jupprai. al.
.'uly 20, 1978



47 -
Goce 80.U2!17i                                                            Xi        Qz/  -r .-....    1 i15 i  !   2,
nyi.2.                       9900          7500           Z400         3000         32W       43000        400            4W0         bO             350           _3C         942-
8.2... (9/093  2/           22.05         33.75          54.00        67,50        73.w0      Z.75       40.00         46.00        6.00          1.220         144.00      2/2.20
C_,. (91.9t)
6.60d  3i                    0.50          0.503          1.10         1.10         7.W0      7.03 ,.00                  S.OG 70 7..00  _.-                        _
S..d   if  0: so  0.50 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f               ±' I              -                                       5-~~~~~~950  240         075
70110-.9  4/                  _-           S.50 6r       11.25  7/    14.00   / 1  94.0W   f 19.SO 10/     --                                                                    g
1004   -_20 2 94 Z00                                                                                                                                                       2.00
Cr6Cb- 3gso  S/               __           0 a,           !.o5         2.26        33 .1      2.65          --                        3.2G          O.33         2.10         2.5C  57.
Sob 2r-i.                 0.50          6.S3          14.20        17.36       24.15     29,15         4.00            ..ZO                     9.53 io  , l 5 :.02
S     Or... 3i:  (7il9)             21.95         26.92          39.80        5014         47.05     65.35        36.00           0.00       5G.S0        '05.-         :  .02      1- 7s
l.b   -                                        sod 45  50     59           S5          67         77          85             90          35            ::3          i20          ' 3
C99_  .3o/)'                                   5 (9)  4  S4   68           77           72        S5          42             . .          5.4           9_           27
YSl..1  (26./.c)                            950           1000         2150         2950                                  350          430                        470 200
v.7ue (2.'092  2/                         22.3?          52.40        40.37        SS.37                                lSO35       45.20                        96.00      2468.30
55o  (IV.)
21.3                         - 37      66.37                                                .3.0                                  69
s~~~~~~~~~~~~.9oy 20/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31    .-
,8  3.8/                                   0.50 5         0  L3 O.20                7.00                                 4.00        9.0 
F       -                                                 5.50 1-2.5               14.00                                   -           -3 .53                                 ,.00
F.r9922r   *. 201                            -'                                                                                                                  2~~ ~~  4.24  :4.24
C-pO             2                           -             .                                                                           -                         2. 72        .00
C-9d01  a-.e  21                            --            0.03          _.85        3.13                                  --
Sio T.1-                              0.50          6.83         24.20       24.15                                  4.00        S.00                       29.96
1.  ..wio (Kt/9)                            20 S7          25.57        34.17       42.22                                 31.UG       35.00                       66.04       223.86
L.bo-  !                                       45             SO           57          65                                    82          S5                         3G0          350
uro-- *0.030/09-0.5 ('0                        46             51           60          65                                    3S          -1                          22          3S
1/ 01 19771/78 poi-e..                                                               12/ PlG- 290109.- /01    90 9809              .e2.e     -
Z/   t   e. 2.25 r,'b.                               13/ 10990  te99   00.0 od0  079900  0.009 709019103.
Z/  .&9  . 22.0 ,  11b .                                                          3 4/ 50 k. s/A..
20609.0 - AY. p     ot 20 llb6. plo. 92 bto.                                      13/ 50 I.q 70.20.0 . 5C kg. S/29.
3/- 0.0D.10b 1.3.9-.                                                         F /So0 kg. 20.20.0   7 35 kg. S/A.  qQ4' 1-:  -999o.0.o9-
9.l. - 10lc.2 - 22 lb . 20 2.23 -/lb.                                          17/ 222b10                                                                                -  og.   fs 009228  0..7
C.--0- t    22 Ib./.e e 5.U0  /llb.                                     18/ 706.0.b    ?.      94.3ili90   'S- v0r-9r  7 :52:/25 93.y9. b40 d   0: S  ,0.   00 d .   1a 0.40/500 - 16.90 a.
7rb.td - 22 lb./1   9 31.8  1lb.                                        19/ V.rt2t0.0.
- 000p00.O    40 16./' 10 10 9lb.                     0*ioo. 10930 4£09912109  . 50 kg. 0/4
0.p__t d - 40 Ib6J1.   @ 10 9/b.                                                    C i   J- - 6 0 ig.- 20.20.0 925 00 S   A
- tr ov4-- So 'b.1 JK  ?  t  !lb.                                                   - C tt-  042,2      25>    /
.3Ibc Fe   p.                                                                             - fOrOd -0 kg. 20. 70.0        . .   0.,4
r-I-I09110                                                                              ft~ 20.20.0 10 00506.' of 2 kg. 5;,A a X/.50'9.0 .0 50   .
20.20 0 -  3,501b/.  .f 50.4..                                                      20600 - 100 ks. 'S  099, .9' K9.40/b.9 .f 5C kg
S/A   t5.50bV of 50 4g.                                                          / 20        f   K0r_r , - 7S7 00T 2 7.000-9bed  0 8   - 16 p 00:S 5  14 :/9i :  .0 :5 7 ,S : De 0 30
7.! ..1o -    -LCtf.91210t.  50 kg. 51/4                                               0 6.2. of *          r   80.20 e cC
C~o.10o                  - 50 kg. 20.20,0 0 2S kb. S0,                            317
tt7br14                    50 kg. 20.20.0 *50 kg. S6A
-ob.cco                  * 50 kg. 20.70.0  50 kg. S/,
S/ AC 157.
6/ SO  g. k /, ; S 29 00oIfot.  g   O   Dp9.
Z, 50 4. 20.20 0 025 k,_ SVA
'J 50 4k. 20.20.0 SO kg. S/A
b/ 50 kg. 20.20.0 * 0S k. S/A
12/ 50 k. 20.20.0 * 100 kg. /A
l1/ PI-, 1o002tia 502 of r.o7dd 0 boo).
2/.5/78



- 46-
4&LAn                                    zakIL-~~~Oh't-S~
NA0VA.L RURAL lVfLoP}lr P Y*M  (zR3P) EWEC1 I flJr
F7  Bdas  - Li5;cwe L- 7d      So_ t Nooz
FAflt NUDZ- FM A 4.5 ACRE SA8 1IThZT    60A)                                             SUML- FM A 4.5 flE  8FASL4 1473 70SCCO
*Tmo  P7WW2           W       M             GGO! FA I.t                            6F1E0             w          UT6 FROltt             2CX       FAIER
A-te l          VtI.       Ar-e    Yteld   V1.1-       Ar..   hld    Ves           Je-    Yield    V                    ie yeld    V.e.-    Ar    titlo    VAYle
(o>    (lb.)      K        (so)    CIba)      7        (o K                                (lb.)      K        ()    (lb.)       it       ()    (lbs)        K
-OrbbLd                    0.2      560   1'2.50       o.8   2.240    54.90        0.8    3.440    77.40       0.i      280     6.0>       0.5    1,525    34.31      0.5   2.150    48.38
-Ci r.lc                   0,3      600    13.50       I.Z   2.700   60.75         1.2   3.600    81.00        0.3      600    13.50       *.0   2.253    50.363      ' 0    3,000    67.50
-oa  &6 FercIlt-er        0 5       700   15.35        0.5     750  104.3         0.5      750    16.86       0.35      00    73.75       0.5      750    16.8S      0.5      750   :6.88
_-Lcal                     2 5    2,450    55.13       1.0      980   22.05        1.0      980    22.05       1.6   1.568    35.28        0.5      490    11.03      0.5      400    11.02
2   (     -o s                  1.0     400   40.00         1.0     450   45.00        1.0    600      60.00        1.0     40    43.00        1.0      450   '5.30       1.0      600    60.00
3. - Tocoo                                                                                                         1.0      350   120.00       1.0      400   128.00      1.3      600   192.00
-oom! 1:#                                 136.88                      199.58                      257.33                      22Z.83                      28355                       95. 79
1. KMte.
4.83                      19.32                       23.32                        2.42                       i2.07                      14.58
-Coqr-e                                     4.26                       17.04                       20.83                        42 6                       14.20                      17.'6
-loom! 6 Ferctllir                          3.41                        3.41                        3.41                        3.4Q                        3.42                       3.42
co:al                                      1.2'                       0.50                        2.50                        0 80                        0.25                       0.25
2  Crod^nO                                      4.W0                        9.20                        9.20                        8.00                        8.00                       9.20
3   :.&,scc                                                                                                                        16.10                      '6.1                        27.25
total etp-coie                             17.75                       49.47                       57.26                       35.00 SO.4                                             72.06
ace. 2ce                                   .19.23                     :50.1!                      200.027                     137.02                      231.06                     323.73
All--- 10.t7Z.50                                           72. 50                      72.50                       72.5.0                                                 72.50
46.73                      77.61                      .27.57                      105.33                      159.31                     251.23
2125/78



- 49 -                                    Table T-6
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURhL DEVELOPMEWNT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE I PROJECT
Cost and Benefit in the Economiz Analysis of the TDA Components
(K'000)
CoSt                                                   Bnef its
Project
Year         LID?    Thiwi-Lifldzi  Ntcheu  Mzinba   TotaL    LIDP  Thiwi-Lifidzi  Ntcheu  Mzmba                Total
'1978/79       3,135      1,101              4      893   5,133    1,054          136           -         79     1,269
1979/80       2,899        755            614       763   5,031    2,295         286           98       161      2,840
1980/81       2,756        675          1,063      435   4,929    3,767          455          213       253      4,688
1981/82       2,999        663            772       457   4,841    5,146         622          318       344      6,430
1982/83       3J176        733            616       392   4,917    6,783         835          441       458      8,517
1983/84       2,996        673            597       350   4,616    7,638          906         617       526      9,687
1984/85       2,998        676            597       372   4,643    8,575          977         703       594    10,849
1985/86       3,222        705            617      372   4,916   11,981        1,125          762       744    24,612
1986/87       3,222        705            617      372   4,916   12,005        1,130          790       744   1!' 469
1987/88        3,222       705            617       372   4,916   12,030       1,135          820       744    14,729
1988/89        3,222        105           617       372   4,916   12,041       1,141          847       744   14,773
1989/90        3,222       705            617      372   4,916   11,852        1,146          872       744   14,614
1990/91        3,222       705            617       372   4,916    11,941      1,152          901       744   14,738
1991/92        3,222       705            617      372   4,916    11,362       1,157          938       744   14,201
1992/93        3,222       705            617      372   4,916    11,362       1,161          961       744   14,215
1993/94        3,222       705            617      372   4,916                 1,162          981       744   14,214
1994/95        3,222       705            617      372   4,916    11,327       1,165        1.Q32       744   140248
1995/96        3,222       705            617      372   4,916    11,327        1,165      1,043        744   14,283
1996/97       3,222        705            617      372   4,916    11,327        1,170      1,075        744   14,286
1997/9"        3,222        705           617      372   4,916    11,327        1,172      1,110        744   14,313
The economic internal rate of return of the Project is 43Z.
Sensitivity An*lyzis:
The EIRR of the Project with 10% increase in cost would be 37Z.
lhe EIRR of the Project with 20% increase in cost would be 32%.
The EIRR of the Project with 10% decrease in benefits would be 36%.
The EIRR of the Project with benefits delayed by 1 year would be 28%.



5 50 -                                                           Table r-7
MALAWI
.i&1O8a1 RURAL DMWE7RlZN  PHRM  (h?) EASE } PRIJECT
Govere t's cash Flov of the Project
:    1979/80    1980181    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985186    ;986/87    1987/88    1968/89    1989/90
:A tor: _ ec900                                 2,80W       3,600       3,600       3,603      3,700 
3,232      4,044      i,73       1,n32         673          -           -          -           -           _           _
3,332      2,038       2,062       1.296      1,038          -           _                                              -
__ ,A                                  100         300        50C         50          500        500          -           -           -           -           _
.. 484;C   oft- - £.40                 173P       529         911      1,500       1,978       2,391       2,806      3,914       3,914       3,914       3,914       3,914
-h1w1-LiftdzI      (34)        (14)         9          43          72         92         132         161         161        161         161         161
- .robens            (19)        (14)        (9)          1           9         12          17          21         21          21          21          21
- PrInts               2          28         87          76         172        216         260         260         260        260         260         260
;      -.-RZ   £3. E, d .X DAo          116         217         513        424         5Z5         533        533         ;33         533         533         533         533
:- e_    h CF.-rs2               182         215        244         290         330        330         330         330         330        330         330         330
0/.Le . .                          44          4S          50         40          36          36         36          36          36          3S          36          36
2: r f-.ow                      8,020     1ol.88       9,556       S,902       8.933      7.810       4.09        5.255      3233           4S       5,255       s.255
;-   pcxdt:- re 3ese 47             4.517      4,474       3.971       3.237       2,846      2,147       2.147       2,147       2.147      2,147       2,147       2,147
Coa  : :: ;::    e -cr: seo c s 1,053  922       895         792        700         389         389         389        389         389         389         389
- LAc)               900         736        639         608         700        579         579         579         579        579         579         S79
s ? 1/       1,204        .106         970        903         70G         633         633        633         633         633         633         633
Th- w6-LfIdzl      6S6        535         280         235         265        165         165         165         165        165         165         165
- IECStche             :.        599        960         445         311        211         211         211         211        211         211         211
620        617         256         254         248        170         170         170        170         170         170         170
v3:r. c,                              260         279         249        175         148         112         112        112         112         112         112         112
-                _397                         863      111i2       1,053      1,151         860         860          60         860        8600        860         860
5.174       516i8      5.332       4.4C67       067       3,119       3.119       3,119       3.119       3119       3.1         L 9
91         96          86         114         33          28          17          10          9           5           4           4
S2-  ro oen8xrdi:*rc  2/  3.292      4,167      18 948      1,294         960         767        696         696         696         696         696         696
O-o e-:' Sspooeorure 2/            3,930       ,324       2,291       1.440       1,153        735         670         670        670         670         670         670
_ dA'.ec- Ser::cc                 ,7          28          55         82         109         137        137         137         137         137         137         137
-__p :a'ces-voent                     __            -          _          __-  -  -  -  -                                                        _           182         182
.o ~   ow 1X*-:Us12.C94                   12,233       9 722       7.397      64 32       4 7_2j      4.622      4,632       4_631       4.627       4806        4,05
C- Ck  1-flow- (Outflow)            (4,474)    (2,045)        (166)     1,505       2,611       3.024        (545)       623         624         6238       449          450
Ceucl.:iv-  asF. To/low (Outflow)   (4.474)    (6.519)    (6,685)    (5.180)    (2,569)          455         (90)       533       1,257       1.785       2,234      2,684
:! -3e Lodiog Cocer3noset  ±s cr~ecsr ooorltsrltoo or. reveisse ateomat sd fasorDe- cofltrlbntloo.
2/ In.cludI.,g Goveczerooes o0st Cooledleg eoocaogerrlies sod 81188 stores.
3/  Nt z5sooted ± re- year 6 orowa-te
r6 S of revern2 for fn:oesry, 21za3r.y reech nd maize sellireg
Asters fIrs; Pro- 2    >r ye-r  1/5 of total projet ro   on slaries; frc 3rd yer to Sc  ye-ar 1/4;-ceAf:eer 1/3.  An eff-etive ta  rae-
57 S ao beer *pll.rd.
.a2: T- cls dcs Zo-ns and il8sdg  oroposed to be fir.seo-d by FR.
Mey 26S 1978



- 51 -                           ANNEX 2
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PFASE I PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Selected Documents
1.  National Rural Development Program - Policies, Strategies and General
Features, Sept. 1977.
2.  17 volumes of Preparation Documents covering:Lilongwe Phase rV,
Lilongwe, Muzuzu, Blantyre and Zomba Management Units, Thiwi-Lifidzi-
Ntcheu, Mzlmba, Nehisi, Henga Valley, Phalombe, Mwanza and Kawinga
Development Areas, Training, Credit and Research, Sept. 1977.
3.  National Sample Survey of Agriculture 1968/69.
4. Malawi Governiaent Economic Report 1977.
5. Compendium of Agricultural Statistics 1971.
6.  Guide to Agricultural Production Li Malawi 1968-77.
7.  Malawi Government Crop Marketing and Price Projections 1977.
8. ADMARC Annual Reports 1972-77.
9. Livestock Production and Marketing in Malawi 1977.
10.  National Health Planning, Malawi 1971.
11. Rotations and Soil Fertility, Research Bulletin No. 10/72.
12.  LLDP:  Some Facts and Figures 1977.
13.    "   Maize Yield Studies 1973-76.
14.    '   Groundnut Yield Studies 1973-76.
15.    "    Survey of Tobacco Production 1970-75.
16.    "   MaLze Production Performance versus Projections, April i978.
17. Broadening the Evaluation of Rural Development Projects: Final Report
on LLDP Follow-Up Study (RPO 293) June 1975.
Data Available in Project File
1. Project Component Cost Tables and ITmilemcatation Schedules.
2.  Descriptive Chapters on Organization. Maiagement Units, Extension
Services, Manpower, Land Husbandry, Roac _onstruction, Accounting,
Credit Planning and Evaluation Unit, Crop 3roduction, Research, Seed
Multiplication, Dzalanyama Ranch, Stallfe;der Program, Forestry,
Health Service, Water, Marketing and Price. These chapters should be
read in conjunction with preparation documents which contain a wealth
of background material.



MALAWI
NAT IONA L I&FIl AiL DEVEI OPMEhNI PHOGHhAM   P HASE I
MINISI RY Ul AGHICUI T URE AND NATUIIAl HiESOtIHCLS
Minist, y t)0,00mialj.   Uitde, the Nali0tti.,al Di,l OOeVmiiiliI Pfogiiy,.
r- - - - - - -  -                                                                                                    - - ---
SAAL IIA C                                                                                       I                                                                                                       I N   ,,, I      I
*i 44b                                                                                                                                                                 --A I10                  MNiibIIi  |*  A .ii4,, # 111ill, hl ,,,
j  L SiltSUS80A*1    j                                                                                    ' -    -         --  i                                          _         , -.ii-t il- -ii.I -                    i
'In  -1
,. _  ollr .________ L__________________ _                                                                                  Ciull                                          1IIA 1__ _.  _
-_ _Prb.."  L,_
I                     .i                         i                     ib        V Li i                                       I                  I     
I- --I-+    -    --1    ulI                                                                                                                            _
I  II~~~~~~~~~~~~E-1H 
L' JLlt4A    L       biJLLJIJ!     J Lz                                i L l                                     ilj }ibibt tli5RI l  iii,zRtU& 1i1i4     IlibVil]t ....... e
L                  L^2                             . -               t-AIr -',  I                           _=-
| iiI,(CCiiiit_js    |R                     ,h    l [ tibi3 1 J      ft V 1 *1tbii                 tlibS) r                        '-a.Ut~  l                  1           E
1     _    _        _      _t~~~~ClI            i,,tlii          liti*i                               r-       - biAtyil                         ,ii.,_aJnrg.                  2    7Bgtli
|  t re  sC        {C^f ii ttS  I N4I PiN4  t5     ibl/It r.t.       11 Shll 1         r;5L1) *151        1        I  StSe}1                      t            3 -            
I 544                           _                             _  __ .  sIul )111  i '-  -' '''- 1tw - -  -  -  -- ft-   ------o 1   -_
r-- e~~~~~~~~~~~~__.. r-_.r---. ,-_ ,____ Z__._ _
i.tbt,*IA          * Sii btl.b li J    S   !  kl  i     XI
_1 _  _SI _ _ ,               Ii _ _I
141114{{    14]  -1PlIRtIi)lSl.l 3!           1    i linar;
,lr II II? I



CIURT C-2
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PHASE I
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT DIVISION AND DEVELOPMENT AREA ORGANIZATION CHART
L IVISIONAi. OEVELPMENrTOFFICEtf
L-  L               @CALLOA                 D C) 
r  -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)I  _ ,, -. 
1-*              ~~~~SURTVEYS ILAL)O    IIZ
ADM INISTRATIVE                                                                                 FIELD DEVELOPMENT
SECTION                        ACCOUNT S SECT ION                                                SERVICES                                DEVELOPMENT SERVICES
tsealof ExecuIeve                   (Senor Account)                                              (Senior A6ricultufal                        (Senior Agricuituml Oike)r
Otfictft}                                                                                         OftlCeI}
Si      S_at I         DDEVELOPMENT
AREA                               u     r
farm        Li~UPERVISOR
_ Srcmes _ _ _ __ t -{ ~~~~~~~~~Mtriidtortneint)lj                                                                               od  rg
Anial~
Huto|                               11ry
Speci iAEt   Technical
Sate           AsHais21
u    "Fl    | |r ASUPEflVIOt
___tI                                 ~        @     ArsdCrsdram 
AIfni Home
r  nstfucstrs
Worlk Bank - 18878



A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&I,                                       4 N
I,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m     %                               
Ul".                              CfI.,
1.'r
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
4:                                  _ _                    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,.  j~~~~ "i



IiRD 13396
APIIL t9,7
MALAWI
4n              NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM, PHASE I
,j, t                LILONGWE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT DIVISION
l~~~~                       /                             e                X  
\ > ' hllTUliD§J,_ ) i ;cX D
N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
.e_0r Dz(0,oMC
5 c   z   2c   2'       Ranchg\
ES1 5Net  De-veiopmer t A,eos
0     20    3C      c                    Area rm Fied Cao.sobdoaron Phase  °
<1 flD0 f 595          *    S~~~~.re of Mflonagement Uo    t- !>,  
D* evelopment Area Heodqs,rters                    f
--   Deelprrent Area Bovndcnes        !                    1        ,      >
>     I                       @2  | |  *    Ecdogiccl Plonn.ng Arec Heod,rwters  jj
*                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Futve De4ok-ment Areas
F'   ~~~~~~~* ~~Ma,,   -ods
.. < 7  /Secondrry Rods
N          -- Dstnc Ra
Ronn&_es
D, c- -   3   BcEdares                                         '
__  ____    &rudo                                                                  )



IBRD 13397
MA LAW I                               !L 1978
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM, PHASE I
MUZUZU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT DIVISION
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e Deelpmn A  I,ecs  7
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~St of Morvcgew''                               L
J)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eeomn A-e Heod 9-'te-\
I " f } ' / New ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Developmenit Areo oriss
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Eooia .,    eePrtncg Areo Heolqurters
{  >,&         , /       j              ~~~~~~~~~~~~SecQnoty Roads
co                                                                               !t     District Roads
Ed  '   t      /                           N        -  - O~~~~~~~~~~~~t  Dstrict Bodres
(  f V    <              II              i        --- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Internatioatl Bou'rf
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T  >o 20   X    0                      4? ;l.,
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K   .    \FX .ETERS o,1\ 
\    '_---,  /                        , #       d       O    r' w 8 a??~~~.M  ~  ok
,-5     ,,                                   ,_.                   t          °
~-b_Z_S             e \^}-v



