Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3104 IVC
Project Agreement
(Private Sector Development -- Capacity Building Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ASSOCIATION POUR LA PROMOTION DES EXPORTATIONS DE CÔTE D'IVOIRE
Dated December 22, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3104 IVC
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 1998 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and ASSOCIATION POUR LA PROMOTION DES EXPORTATIONS DE 
CÔTE D'IVOIRE (APEX-CI).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,900,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
APEX-CI agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement;
(B)
by a Convention to be entered into between the Borrower and APEX-CI, part 
of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will 
be made available to APEX-CI on terms and conditions set forth in said Convention; and
WHEREAS APEX-CI, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) APEX-CI declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this 
end, shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, and business 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and APEX-CI shall otherwise agree, APEX-CI shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and the Operating Manual.
Section 2.03. (a) APEX-CI shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the APEX-CI Project Agreement and Part 
A of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, APEX-CI shall: (i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable 
to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and APEX-CI, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and (ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with APEX-CI on said 
plan.
Section 2.04. APEX-CI shall duly perform all its obligations under the APEX-CI 
Convention and the Operating Manual.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
APEX-CI shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the APEX-CI Convention or the Operating 
Manual or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) APEX-CI shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement, under the APEX-CI Convention and the 
Operation Manual and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit;
(b)
APEX-CI shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by APEX-CI of its 
obligations under this Agreement, the APEX-CI Convention and the Operating Manual; and 
(c)
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, APEX-CI shall 
participate fully in the reviews referred to in Paragraph I.3 of Schedule 4 to the 
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall (a) furnish to the Borrower and 
the Association such reports as may be required for that purpose, and in such detail 
as the Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress and 
status of the Project, and (b) following each annual review, act promptly and 
Page  3
diligently in order to take, or assist the Borrower in taking, any corrective action 
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, 
or to implement, or assist the Borrower in implementing, such other measures as may 
have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the 
Project.
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of APEX-CI 
Section 3.01. APEX-CI shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and business practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. APEX-CI shall ensure that the position of General Manager shall be 
kept filled at all times by a person, whose qualifications and experience shall have 
been communicated to the Association and found to be acceptable.
Section 3.03. APEX-CI shall at all times operate and maintain its buildings, 
office space, equipment, vehicles and other property, and from time to time, promptly 
as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with 
sound technical, engineering, financial and environmental practices.
Section 3.04. APEX-CI shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) APEX-CI shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the 
carrying out of Part A of  the Project.
(b)
APEX-CI shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) above for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements and a report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts and financial statements and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from 
time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Page  4
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
APEX-CI thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify APEX-CI 
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For ASSOCIATION POUR LA PROMOTION:
DES EXPORTATIONS DE CÔTE D'IVOIRE (APEX-CI)
01 B.P 3485
ABIDJAN
COTE D’IVOIRE
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of APEX-CI or by 
APEX-CI on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken 
or executed by its General Manager, or by such other person or persons as APEX-CI 
shall designate in writing, and APEX-CI shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  5
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
ASSOCIATION POUR LA PROMOTION DES
  EXPORTATIONS DE CÔTE D'IVOIRE
By /s/ Moise Koumoue Kofi
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997, 
subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A, (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International or National Shopping
(a)
Specialized equipment estimated to cost less than $200,000 but more than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles, computers and other office equipment may be procured from IAPSO in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines and as specified in 
the Operating Manual.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract to be procured under international 
competitive bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  6
(b)
With respect to the first five contracts to be procured under shopping 
procedures, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Borrower shall provide 
to the 
Association a report on the comparison and evaluation 
of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
2.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under Part A of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely local 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services of a standard or routine nature, including audits estimated to cost 
less than the equivalent of $25,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraphs 3.8 to 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may, where appropriate, and with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Page  7
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Commercial Practices
Services to assist Beneficiaries in carrying out Export Development Activities 
under Part A.1 of the Project may be procured in accordance with commercial practices 
acceptable to the Association and as specified in the Operational Manual.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning. 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, or for the first five (5) Matching Grants, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, or for the first 
five (5) Matching Grants, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms 
of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have 
been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
1.
General
(a)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, APEX-CI shall: (i) apply 
criteria, policies, procedures and guidelines set out in the Operating Manual, and 
(ii) not amend, or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the Operating Manual or 
any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
(b)
The General Manager of APEX-CI shall, subject to the overall control of 
the Board of Directors, be responsible for the day-to-day management of activities 
under Part A of the Project.
(c)
The Selection Committee shall consist of experts with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association. It shall at a minimum, include the General 
Manager and another member of the management of APEX-CI.
Page  8
(d)
APEX-CI shall organize every year, in conjunction with the Association 
and the Borrower, a project implementation planning workshop with representatives of 
major stakeholders, which will serve as a mechanism for the establishment of annual 
performance indicators to be used for the monitoring of the implementation of Part A 
of the Project. 
2.
Eligibility Criteria for Matching Grants
(a)
No Export Development Activity shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit unless APEX-CI has determined, on the basis of an appraisal 
conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Operating Manual, that 
the Export Development Activity satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below and 
in more detail in the Operating Manual, which shall include, inter alia, the 
following: 
(i)
the Export Development Activity shall be initiated and submitted 
to APEX-CI by 
a Beneficiary, without any restriction on size or 
sector of activity of the 
Beneficiary; 
(ii)
the Export Development Activity shall consist of any of the types 
of 
activities referred to in Part A.1 of the Project; 
(iii)
an Export Development Activity may not be financed if it consists 
of 
participation in capital investment, equipment purchase 
(except for product 
testing equipment or product packaging 
equipment for use exporters’ 
associations) and 
operating expenses; 
(iv)
the Export Development Activity shall be financially and 
technically sound in 
accordance with the criteria/parameters 
specified in the Operating Manual;
(v)
an Export Development Activity shall not be considered for 
financing unless 
the Beneficiary can demonstrate that the Export 
Development Activity will 
actually enable it to optimally use its 
export potential; and 
(vi)
the Beneficiary shall provide from its own resources at least 35% 
of the 
estimated costs of the Export Development Activity 
and shall comply with such 
other requirements with respect to its 
contribution as shall be specified in 
the Operating Manual.  
3.
Procedure
(a)
Applications for Matching Grants to finance an Export Development 
Activity shall be prepared by Beneficiaries, and submitted to the General Manager of 
APEX-CI, who shall, refer them to the Selection Committee.
(b)
Subject to the decision of the Selection Committee, and to approval 
guidelines prescribed in the Operating Manual, applications for Matching Grants shall 
be approved by the General Manager. 
4.
Terms and Conditions of Matching Grants for Export Development Activities
Every Export Development Activities shall be carried out pursuant to a Matching 
Grant Agreement, to be concluded between APEX-CI and the Beneficiary, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, which shall, inter alia, include the 
following:
(a)
financing shall be on a matching grant basis;
(b)
the obligation to carry out the Export Development Activity in accordance 
with the Operating Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound technical, financial, managerial and business standards and to maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Export Development Activity;
Page  9
(c)
the requirement that (i) the goods and services to be financed from the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement and/or as set forth in the Operating Manual and (ii) 
such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Export 
Development Activity;
(d)
the right of APEX-CI, by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, to inspect the operations of the Export Development 
Activity and any relevant records and documents;
(e)
the right of APEX-CI to obtain all information as APEX-CI or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and 
financial conditions of the Export Development Activity; and
(f)
the right of APEX-CI to suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary 
to use the proceeds of the Matching Grant  for the Export Development Activity upon 
failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the Matching Grant 
Agreement.
5.
APEX-CI shall submit to the Association, for its review or approval, as the case 
may be:
(a)
before the beginning of each fiscal year, a proposed annual work program, 
including a proposed budget and financing plan, for the forthcoming fiscal year; and
(b)
semiannual and annual progress reports on the status of implementation of 
Part A of the Project, including regular beneficiary feedback reports and Export 
Development Activities’ completion reports.
