Report No. PID6758
Project Name                     Cote d'Ivoire-Private Sector Development...
Capacity Building Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Private Sector
Project ID                       CIPA43736
Borrower                         Government of Cote d'Ivoire
Implementation agencies          Programme d'Appui au Developpement du Secteur
Prive
(PASP)
Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
B.P. 163 Abidjan / Cote d'Ivoire
Tel: (225) 0 08 84
Fax: (225) 21 90 16
(for the export development component)
APEX-CI
01 BP 3485 Abidjan 01 / Cote d'Ivoire
Tel: ( 225) 22 28 06
Fax: ( 225) 22 28 07
Date initital PID prepared       May 1995
Date this update prepared        August 1998
Appraisal date                   September 1995
Board date                       June 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.      Previous adjustment operations over the 1991-1998 period ( PASCO, PASFI,
ERC, ASAC and PSD Adjustment) and the 1994 CFA Franc devaluation have
addressed major structural obstacles to private sector development and
created a reasonably favorable business environment in Cote d'Ivoire.
Furthermore, the financial sector was restructured during 1991-1993 prior to
the devaluation. Government deserves high marks for having maintained a stable
macroeconomic framework through prudent fiscal management and restrictive
monetary policies since the devaluation. It has embarked upon an ambitious
structural reform program: it has eliminated virtually all price controls and
non-tariff barriers and has cut import tariffs. Since 1990, 38 public
enterprises have been privatized, including power, telecommunications,
railways, tourism and agro-industries ( palm-oil, rubber, sugar, cotton etc.).
The coffee and cocoa sector - the backbone of the Ivoirian economy - has been
liberalized to a large extent and significant income transfers to the rural
population are expected. The reforms implemented under the PSD adjustment
operation of 1996 have generally shown positive results which include lower
transaction costs for ivoirian exports and imports and better service through
maritime transport liberalization; streamlined procedures in ports and customs
transit; more transparent procedures for the tax administration; labor



legislation which allows greater flexibility (fixed term contracts, part time
work, temporary job agencies etc.), a reform of the judicial system, transfer
of export development activities to a private organization, and other measures
to increase the competitiveness of the economy.
2.      The economy has responded well to the reforms. Growth was 2 percent in
1994, 7.1 in 1995, 6.8 percent in 1996, and 6 percent in 1997. Investment has
recovered significantly. Domestic investment grew from 4.4 percent of GDP in
1992-93 to 8.5 percent in 1994-1996. Foreign investment, through not well
quantified, appears to have grown at a similar rate. In contrast to most Sub-
Saharan African countries, Cote d'Ivoire has consistently recorded a strong
positive trade balance, with exports representing 40-50 percent of GDP.
Exports of goods in 1996 were US$4.2 billion, a real increase of 67T over the
average of 1991-1993.
3.      However, the bulk of the supply response after the devaluation has been
in oil and gas, mining, cocoa/coffee processing and privatization-related
investments, whereas exports have benefited greatly from the recovery in
commodity prices. A more pro-active approach is needed to jump-start
investments and exports in non-traditional sectors, to create capacity among
small and medium local enterprises, and to sell Cote d'Ivoire as a good
business address to foreign investors.
4.      The Government has articulated its long term development strategy in the
document "Cote d'Ivoire, Elephant d'Afrique". The strategy takes its
inspiration from the success of the Asian tigers and is based on fast-growing
investment and exports. To implement this strategy, the Government has:
(a) dismantled the ineffective Government-run export promotion agency CCIA
(under the Private Sector Development Adjustment Program) and encouraged the
creation of an export development organization under majority private
management, l'Association pour la promotion des exportations de Cote d'Ivoire,
APEX-CI); (b) revised the Investment Code, and created a new investment
promotion agency (Centre de promotion des Investissements de Cote d'Ivoire,
CEPICI), placed directly under the authority of the Prime Minister (under the
new scheme, investment below a fixed threshold no longer need prior approval);
and (c) implemented a short-term action plan under the Private Sector
Development Adjustment program to address the most obvious shortcomings of the
legal and judicial system. In conjunction with its partners in the CFA zone,
Cote d'Ivoire adopted a region-wide reform of the business laws which became
effective in January 1998 ( OHADA reform).
Project objectives
5.      The objective of the project is to promote private sector development
through increased levels of investments and exports. Specifically, the project
will contribute to: (a) reducing the dependency on traditional exports and
increasing the share of high value added products in the nation's export
structure; (b) attracting foreign investors and promoting domestic investment
by targeting foreign direct investment (FDI) promotion activities, by
simplifying investment procedures, by co-financing best practice SME support
schemes and by providing analytical support to private/public sector
consultation mechanisms; and (c) creating a secure legal and judicial
environment for investors and existing businesses.
Project description
-2-



6.      Export development component : This component will support a newly
created private/public sector association of exporters, the Association pour
la Promotion des Exportations de Cote d'Ivoire (APEX-CI), to implement a broad
range program of export promotion services. This program has three
subcomponents: (a) Matching Grant Scheme; (b) Policy Dialogue; (c) Trade
Information Center.
7.      Matching Grant Scheme.   The project will finance the establishment and
execution of a matching grant scheme. This scheme is designed to channel
relatively small amounts of money directly to private exporters to finance a
portion of the cost of support services, as well as specific testing and
packaging equipment for exports. The objective of this cost-sharing scheme is
to accelerate improvements in export competitiveness by providing
entrepreneurs access to a broad a range of expert support services. It is
expected that the scheme will provide partial financing to exporters and
export associations for such activities as feasibility studies, technical
consultancies and training courses, participation in trade fairs, the design
and implementation of export marketing campaigns and visits of strategic
buyers. The scheme is designed to be flexible and demand driven and since the
beneficiaries are required to pay part of the costs, they in turn will demand
that the scheme be efficiently and transparently run and be responsive to
their needs..
8.      Policy Dialogue to improve business environment for exporters.         The
project will finance the organization of a policy dialogue which will bring
together key representatives from the Government and the exporters'community
who meet regularly with a mandate to: (a) identify and analyze regulatory
constraints to export development; (b) develop detailed proposals for policy
change; (c) submit these proposals to Government decision makers; and (d)
monitor the adoption and implementation of these proposals. The project will
enable APEX-CI to commission experts to conduct diagnostic studies and to
formulate policy options, and to invite practitioners, both domestic and
foreign, to present best practices. APEX-CI will conduct a continuing public
awareness campaign to disseminate its findings and conclusions on reforms
needed in the business environment for the development of exports.
9.      Trade Information Center.        In spite of rapid progress in the tele-
communications infrastructure, Ivorian exporters still have little access to
the range of information services currently available worldwide. This
subcomponent is designed to greatly enhance the competitiveness of Ivorian
exporters at relatively low cost and will: (a) provide access to data bases
and information services available internationally on export markets and
opportunities; (b) connect Ivorian exporters with potential suppliers and
business partners abroad; (c) assist Ivorian exporters in developing
communication means (web pages etc.) on their products and export
capabilities; and (d) develop an electronic inventory of Ivorian exporters and
their capabilities for access by foreign buyers and suppliers. APEX-CI will
provide this service on a retail, fee-for-service basis. Although the service
will have to be subsidized during the start-up period (historically, similar
services did not fully recover costs even in developed countries),
sustainability on a commercial basis can be envisaged at the end ot the
project, due to the advancement of information technology and falling costs.
10.     Investment promotion and facilitation component : This component will
enhance the capability of Cote d'Ivoire to attract foreign investors, while at
- 3 -



the same time providing investment facilitation and improving the
competitiveness of local businesses, particularly SMEs. It will have 4
subcomponents :
11.     FDI promotion.       Cote d'Ivoire has already successfully implemented a
broad based awareness creation campaign, aimed at building Cote d'Ivoire's
image and making it visible as an investment site. Investment has picked up
substantially since the devaluation in 1994, but is still heavily concentrated
in oil, gas, mining, privatization and processing of commodities
(transformation of cocoa and coffee). At this junction, Cote d'Ivoire is ready
for a well-targeted, more cost-efficient approach which would maximize returns
on public resources spent on investment promotion.
12.     In order to assist Cote d'Ivoire's investment promotion agency CEPICI
(Centre de Promotion des Investissements en Cote d'Ivoire) to develop more
sharply focused promotional campaigns, an investor targeting study to be
financed under the project would lay the groundwork for future promotion
activities. The study would start out from a recently completed series of
sectoral studies, and assess the comparative advantage of the country relative
to worldwide trends, to identify the future sources of growth in the economy.
Most importantly, it would identify the sectors and firms within sectors,
worldwide, which CEPICI should be targeting through industry/trade show
participation and direct investor targeting activities. Once consensus is
reached on a focused promotion strategy, a detailed plan would be prepared,
identifying the best means of reaching the targeted groups of firms,
including individual firms in each target sector, and the most appropriate
promotional methods and materials to be used. The overall implementation plan
would offer realistic quantitative targets in terms of numbers of firms in
contacts, visits, negotiations, and investments. The project would
subsequently finance the actual implementation of two selected promotional
events, putting to use the investor targeting methods. Agreed upon benchmarks
would be used to assess a performance based part of the consultant fee of the
firm which will carry out the investor targeting study.
13.     The project would also help Cote d'Ivoire and CEPICI to take advantage of
modern technology to promote the country to the international business
community and finance relevant activities (attractive websites in several
languages, enhanced promotional materials etc.)
14.     Simplification of investment procedures          Company registration
procedures are cumbersome and relatively expensive in Cote d'Ivoire. The
project would finance a team of two national consultants, a lawyer and a
computer specialist, under the supervision of a CEPICI staff, to analyze
existing procedures, identify information requirements of government agencies
involved ( proposing the elimination of those requirements which are no longer
necessary) and conceive a single document with copies to be dispatched to all
agencies involved (liasse unique). The procedures would also have to be
brought in line with the recent revision of company registration requirements
under the regional business law reform OHADA. A test phase would precede final
adoption and publication of the new procedures.
15.     Promotion of small-scale local investment through an effective SME
support strategy : Government adopted an SME action plan in January 1997 and
created the Institut National Ivoirien de l'Entreprise (INIE), a publicly
managed structure to provide information and technical assistance services to
- 4 -



entrepreneurs. However, donors do not seem to fully support the Government's
action plan which lacks financing. The project would contribute to the
assessment of the SME action plan through provision of technical advisory
servicess and the organization of a dialogue between the Government, SMEs and
donors. It would also finance activities to improve SME performance in the
area of business management through specifically tailored programs to be
delivered by existing management schools and experts familiar with small
business administration.
16.     Improvement of the business environment   through Public/private sector
consultation mechanisms and competitiveness studies :        Weak flows of
information and communication between government and the private sector result
in a climate of uncertainty and mutual suspicion which may negatively impact
the level of private investment, bias private investment towards very short-
term projects and push economic activity into the informal sector. To address
these problems, many countries have adopted a formal or an informal
consultative process between Government and private sector representatives.
The project would help upgrade the existing liaison committee to a fully
effective consultative body, by providing resources for analytical support for
policy reform to improve the business environment and the competitiveness of
the economy. Initial support for the start-up period of a joint public /
private sector committee against economic fraud will also be provided.
17.     Component   aimed at  strengthening the legal and judicial system.
Private sector development in general cannot succeed without a legal system
based on predictability and stability. Inability to enforce private contracts
or high costs and unreasonable delays have a negative impact on the economic
development of a country. Legal and judicial reform and the existence of
arbitral dispute settlement mechanisms which help achieve efficient and
expedient enforcement of agreements between private parties are, therefore,
intrinsically tied to economic progress.The component aimed at strengthening
the legal and judiciary system proposes to achieve this objective through 3
subcomponents:
18.     Implementation of the recently adopted OHADA regional business law reform
Cote d'Ivoire, together with 15 other French-speaking African
countries, has adopted a region-wide comprehensive reform of business laws,
including general commercial law, company law and sureties. A second set of
laws on credit and recovery of debts, means of enforcement, bankruptcy,
receivership, and arbitration will be adopted in 1998. These reforms will
ultimately enable Cote d'Ivoire to operate in a framework of modern business
laws, but they need to be implemented rapidly. Implementation involves the
following steps: (a) Wide dissemination of the contents of the new business
laws, which includes publication and availability of the texts of the laws and
publication of manuals; (b) Training of legal practitioners ( magistrates,
lawyers, clerks-of-the-court, law professors etc.) and information of the
business community on the contents and impact of the new laws; (c)
Harmonization of existing laws with the newly adopted business laws. The
project will provide resources for these implementation activities.
19.     Further improvement of the functioning of the judiciary.       The private
sector assessment of 1994 emphasized that Cote d'Ivoire suffered not only from
the absence of modern business laws ( the situation has been remedied in the
meantime by the adoption of the OHADA business laws), but even more so from
the inefficient judicial system (long delays, corruption etc.). An action plan
- 5 -



was adopted in 1996, under the private sector adjustment credit. The plan was
aimed at reforming procedures at the office of the clerk-of-court, providing
better access to legal information (through support to the Center for Legal
Information which keeps up-to-date information on legal texts and major case
law), re-activation of the general inspectorate of judicial services, and
strengthening of the legislative process. The Government is prepared to
continue the reform process through further measures to improve the
functioning of the judiciary and has presented a follow-up plan at the
Consultative Group meeting in May 1998 in Abidjan. Close monitoring both of
the satisfactory implementation of the 1996-1997 action plan and of the 1998
follow-up plan is needed to ensure their impact. The project would establish
performance indicators to measure the degree of satisfaction of the business
community and would provide resources for independent monitoring of the
progress of the legal and judicial reform.
20.     Establishment and operation of an Arbitration Court.       Efforts to
improve the functioning of the judicial system rarely produce quick results.
Moreover, in most countries, many commercial disputes never reach the courts
and are settled through arbitration. An Ivorian law of 1992 provides the legal
framework for enforcement of arbitration decisions and the Abidjan Chamber of
Commerce and Industry decided in 1995 to set up an arbitration court attached
to this institution. The court opened in early 1997 when a secretary general
was recruited. The project will assist the Arbitration Court in attracting a
number of cases which will enable it, after a 3 year period, to cover most of
its operating expenses. Support will take the form of technical assistance to
establish the credibility of the court with national, regional and
international businesses by providing quality control during the start-up
period, assist with establishing and updating a list of qualified arbitrators,
improve its procedures, publish an Arbitration Guide for Ivorian businesses.
The project will also cover part of the operating costs of the Arbitration
Court during the start-up period and communication
Project financing
21.     Total project cost, including contingencies, is US$23.3 million
equivalent, of which IDA will finance US$12 million equivalent. Private sector
contribution, mainly to the matching grant scheme, is expected to be US$4.9
million equivalent and Government contribution US$6.4 million equivalent.
Project benefits
22.     Export promotion:       Expected benefits of the export promotion program
include the following: (a) increase in value and profitability of exports
amongst recipient firms (based on empirical evidence, matching grants are
expected to yield an increase of at least ten times the amount of grant
support), (b) increased awareness amongst exporters of the value of expert
advisory services; (c) the creation of a consensus on the importance of
export-led growth and on the introduction of policies conducive to it, through
public debates and policy dialogues.
23.     Investment promotion and facilitation, secure judicial environment:
Expected benefits include a higher level of investment and competitiveness,
hence growth and employment creation. Although investors and existing SMEs are
the direct target population, the program will benefit the working poor
through substantial employment creation.
- 6-



Project implementation
24.     All subcomponents will be executed by the organizations/agencies which
are in charge of normal operations in the respective areas. The export
promotion program will be carried out by APEX-CI, a private sector institution
with a broad-based membership among the nation's exporters. Oversight of this
component will be provided by APEX-CI's board which is primarily (75%)
composed of representatives of businesses and business associations. The
investment promotion component will be carried out by the investment promotion
agency CEPICI and the SME component by the Ministry of Industrial Development
and SMEs. In the Ministry of Justice, a special position of OHADA and Judicial
reform coordinator has been created. A project coordination unit in the
Ministry of Economy and Finance (Projet d'Appui au Secteur Prive - PASP) will
be in charge of the procurement, disbursement, and financial management
aspects, except for the export development component which will be managed
separately by APEX-CI.
Project sustainability
25.     Export Promotion : Both the policy dialogue and the matching grant fund
components of the project, although designed as temporary interventions, are
expected to have an enduring impact on the policy environment of exporters and
their capacity to compete in export markets. The Trade Information Center,
heavily subsidized at first, is designed to achieve full cost recovery by the
end of the project. Government contribution to APEX-CI's operating expenses,
significant at first, will decline over the life of the project at which time
APEX-CI's membership will bear 100 percent of non project-related operating
expenses.
26.     Investment promotion and facilitation : The project will help the
investment promotion agency CEPICI to upgrade its activities to take full
advantage of available investor targeting methods and cutting-edge
information technologies, and to streamline investment procedures. project
activities are of a temporary nature, but will lay the basis for long-lasting
improvement in investment promotion and facilitation. Investment promotion
activities are not intended to generate direct revenues. By the end of the
project, CEPICI's normal operating expenses will be covered by the budget of
the Prime Minister's Office, as is the case at present. Upgrading of
management capabilities of SMEs will make a more sustainable contribution than
ad hoc support and financing.
27.     Strengthening of the Legal and Judicial System: Recourse to arbitration
requires prior inclusion of arbitration provisions in contracts and has,
therefore, a certain gestation period. Moreover, CACI has to establish its
credibility within the domestic and foreign business communities, which might
take several years. It is expected that CACI will cover an increasing share of
operating expenses over the life of the project, reaching around 75 percent
at the end of the 3-year period. Full cost recovery is expected after 5 years
of operation. During the transition period after the end of the project, the
Abidjan Chamber of Commerce is expected to cover the residual operating
expenses.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country / sector
28.     Export promotion: The Government-private sector policy dialogue on export
competitiveness is modeled upon approaches that have been successful in other
-7 -



African countries (Senegal, Ghana and Madagascar). The proposed design of the
matching grant scheme incorporates lessons from IDA and Bank supported
matching grant schemes elsewhere (Kenya, Mauritius, Senegal and Uganda) which
have shown that: (a) the provision of information and management services
should be specialized and tailored to the firm's or association's needs;
(b) recipients should be required to pay a significant portion of the cost in
order to ensure a strong interest on their part in the quality of the service
and the usefulness of the recommendations; and (c) the scheme should be
managed through an independent, private sector-based agency, to ensure
efficiency and effectiveness.
29.     Investment promotion and facilitation: Past adjustment reforms in Cote
d'Ivoire were heavily focused on creating a sound macro-economic framework and
promoting structural reforms as pre-conditions for private sector development.
They have fostered a reasonably favorable business environment, but supply
response has been below expectations. A more pro-active approach to investment
promotion and SME support is expected to contribute to sustainable development
and employment creation.
30.     Strengthening of legal and judicial system (implementation of OHADA
business law reforms/ arbitration court ): Bank projects to support legal and
judicial reforms in African countries have proved to have long gestation and
implementation periods. The harmonization of business laws in 16 African
countries and the establishment of a common supreme court for commercial
matters can be considered as a major breakthrough and must be implemented
rapidly. In parallel, to boost investor confidence, immediate action is
needed, through the setting up of an arbitration court as alternative
mechanism for commercial dispute resolution.
31.     Program objective category. The project supports IDA's private sector
development and capacity building objectives.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 21, 1998.
- 8 -



