                  Document of
               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: 32661

      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
             (IDA-31040 PPFI-Q0080)

                     ON A

                    CREDIT

IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.9 MILLION (US$ 12.9 MILLION)

                    TO THE

           REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE

                    FOR A

   PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT




                  June 17, 2005

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective Febuary 17, 2004)

                                   Currency Unit = CFA Franc
                                    1 CFA Franc = US$
                                        US$ 1.00 = 502.84 CFAF

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1   December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AGOA          Africa Growth and Opportunity Act
APEX-Cl       Association pour la Promotion des Exportations de Côte d'Ivoire (Export
Promotion Association)
CACI          Cour d'Arbitrage de Côte d'Ivoire (Arbitration Court)
CCI-CI        Chambre de Commerce et d'Industrie de Côte d 'Ivoire (Chamber of Commerce
and Industry)
CCIA          Centre du Commerce International d'Abidjan (Abidjan Intemational Trade Center)
CEPICI        Centre de Promotion des Investissements en Côte d'Ivoire (Investment
Promotion Center)
FCFA          Franc de la Communaute Financiere d'Afrique ( CFA Franc)
FDI           Foreign Direct Investment
GDP           Gross National Product
IDA           International Development Association
OHADA         Organisation pour I 'Harmonisation du Droit des Affaires en Afrique
(Organization for the Harmonization of Business Laws in Africa)
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PROMEXA        Association pour la Promotion des Exportations Agricoles non    traditionnelles
de Côte d'Ivoire
PSD           Private Sector Development
SME           Small and Medium Enterprises
SOE           Statement of Expenses
UNCTAD        United Nations Conference for Trade and Development
UNIDO         United Nations Industrial Development Organization
WTO           World Trade Organization



                                 Vice President:     Gobind Nankani
                               Country Director      Mamadou Dia
                                 Sector Manager      Demba Ba
                Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Emmanuel Diarra

                                       COTE D'IVOIRE
                                            PSD TA


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       32
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             34
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             36
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             38
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             39
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             43
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                44
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            45

Project ID: P043736                                                  Project Name: PSD TA
Team Leader: Emmanuel Diarra                                         TL Unit: AFTPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 23, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: PSD TA                                                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-31040; PPFI-Q0080
   Country/Department: COTE D'IVOIRE                                                      Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (32%); Micro- and SME finance
                            (30%); General industry and trade sector (25%); Law and justice
                            (9%); Other domestic and international trade (4%)
                  Theme: Export development and competitiveness (P); Other financial and
                            private sector development (P); Small and medium enterprise
                            support (P); Legal institutions for a market economy (S); Law reform
                            (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/31/1995                                     Effective: 03/22/1999                03/22/1999
     Appraisal: 05/19/1995                                         MTR: 08/22/2000                  06/22/2002
      Approval: 06/25/1998                                      Closing: 03/31/2002                 09/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV'T/APEX-CI; Ministry of Justice; Chamber of Commerce and Industry;
                                           CEPECI
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Mamadou Dia                                    Shigeo Katsu
Sector Manager:                 Demba Ba                                       Tom Allen
Team Leader at ICR:             Emmanuel Diarra                                Elke Kreuzweiser
ICR Primary Author:             Emmanuel Diarra


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
Borrower and Bank performance are rated marginally satisfactory.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background. Credit 3104 for the Private Sector Development Capacity Building Project was
approved by the Executive Directors on June 25, 1998, for an mount of SDR 8.9 million (US$
12.9 million equivalent). Project implementation coincided with a period of unprecedented
political turmoil in Côte d'Ivoire, which directly impacted the project. The project was never
implemented in the way it was designed.

The devaluation of the CFA Franc in 1994 triggered a period of rapid growth of the Ivorian
economy which reversed the decline in the economy of the late eighties and early nineties.
Following the devaluation, the Government embarked on an ambitious reform program aimed to
reduce poverty by stimulating growth. Key public enterprises, including power and
telecommunications, and agro-industries, such as palm oil, were privatized, while the cocoa and
coffee sectors, the backbone of the Ivorian economy, were largely liberalized. In the mid-nineties
the Government also prepared a long-term strategy which took its inspiration from the
high-growth export-driven Asian economies and which aimed to create the environment for
fast-growing investment and exports. Under a Private Sector Adjustment Program, supported by
the Bank and other donors, the Government, among other reforms, dismantled an ineffective
government export promotion agency and encouraged the creation of another organization with
majority private management; revised the investment code; created a new investment promotion
agency, and implemented a short-term action plan to address the most obvious shortcomings of
the legal and regulatory framework. The project under review was conceived as the technical
assistance component of a PSD operation, which consisted mainly of a US$200 million
adjustment program. A joint Project Concept Document was prepared and discussed in 1995.
The project was split at the Decision Meeting for the joint operation, to maintain the
fast-disbursing, budget-support character of the adjustment operation and avoid the delays which
would be associated with the preparation of the technical assistance component. The Government
was eager to see the six tranches of the adjustment operation disbursed, and the corresponding
major reform measures were implemented within a two year time frame (1996-1998). There was
some preparation of the Technical Assistance Project during the period of implementation of the
adjustment program (the establishment of private sector institutions was part of the program) but
preparation was intensified in 1997 when a post-appraisal mission was carried out.

Until 1999, Côte d'Ivoire was one of Africa's few stable and successful countries, but it has
witnessed considerable instability since then. This instability had no precedent in Cote d'Ivoire's
history, and was not predictable by Governments or institutions involved with Cote d'Ivoire,
including the Bank. The Private Sector Development Capacity Building Credit became effective
on March 22, 1999, when the political situation was beginning to deteriorate. The deterioriation
led to a military coup in December 1999, the first coup in Cote d'Ivoire's history, and a period of
heightened political uncertainty and economic decline leading up to the presidential election of
October 2000, from which several major opposition candidates were excluded. Shortly after the
elections, Côte d' Ivoire was not able to meet its debt service obligations to IDA, which led to a
fifteen-month suspension of disbursements of IDA credits starting in October 2000. The
suspension was lifted in February 2002, when the Government met its debt service obligations,



                                                 - 2 -

and one month before the original credit Closing Date of the project of March 2002.

In early 2002, there was renewed hope for a solution to the political problems, following
initiatives to reinitiate a national reconciliation process. The Bank presented an interim assistance
strategy for Côte d'Ivoire to the Board in May 2002, and work to reactivate a number of projects
in the portfolio, including the referenced project, was started. The Closing Date for the credit was
extended first for six months until September 2002, and a mid-term review mission visited the
country in June 2002. During the mission, a restructuring/refocusing plan was agreed, and the
credit was extended for two years to September 2004. In late September 2002, hostilities broke
out which resulted in the de facto division of the country in two, one controlled by the
Government and one by the rebels, a situation that persists today. Open hostilities ended with a
cease-fire, and the signature in January 2003 of the Marcoussis Peace Accord, designed to
address issues that had led to the conflict ("Ivorian" ideology, nationality and elections).
However, implementation of the accords has been uneven, with numerous instances of
backtracking and the cease-fire was broken on several occasions. United Nations and French
forces are helping maintain the peace. A coalition government has been formed, but it has not
functioned regularly, as several political parties have suspended their participation at various
points in time. Disbursements under IDA credits were again suspended in June 2004 when Côte
d'Ivoire did not meet its debt service obligations to the Bank, a situation which persists today. In
April 2005, a meeting of all parties was held in Pretoria led by the President of South Africa
which presented an action plan to end the crisis; the results of this new initiative are not yet
known. The political situation had a very negative effect on private sector confidence, and thus on
the possibility of implementing the project.

Original Objective. The objective of the Project as defined in the Project Appraisal Document
(No. 17940) was to contribute to: (a) reducing the dependency on traditional exports and
increasing the share of high value added products in the nation's export structure; (b) attracting
foreign investors and promoting domestic investment, simplifying investment procedures; reaching
Government-donor consensus on best practice SME support schemes, including management
training for SMEs, and providing analytical and operational support to private/public sector
consultation mechanisms; and (c) creating a more secure legal and judicial environment for new
investors and existing businesses. The project was to support the overall goal spelled out in the
country assistance strategy of helping Côte d' Ivoire achieve a sustainable growth rate of at least
6 percent per annum through increased level of investments and exports. Progress towards the
meeting the project objectives was to be measured and monitored through: (a) the increase in the
country's non-traditional exports; (b) the increase in foreign and domestic investment; and (c)
improved performance indicators and confidence ratings for the judiciary. The project was in line
with the Country Assistance Strategy approved in 1997. The project helped deepen and extend
institutional reforms initiated under the Private Sector Adjustment Program.

The project had ambitious but clear objectives aimed at addressing key issues in the government
agenda. Given the political developments in Cote d'Ivoire, priorities have changed, which was
recognized in the project restructuring initiated in 2003. The project design was not particularly
complex, in comparison to other programs of this type, and focused on fairly specific reforms.
The country had a reasonably good track record in project implementation. Implementation



                                                    - 3 -

arrangements were clear and not uncommon; they relied on an association to handle the largest
project component (export promotion). The association had been created in June 1996 to
represent the interests of a variety of exporters, a function which no other association in the
country had. Technical assistance was included in the project to strengthen the institution and an
internationally recruited specialist was appointed to manage it. The principal implementing
agencies were: the Export Promotion Association (Association pour la Promotion des
Exportations de Cote d' Ivoire - APEX-CI), responsible for the export promotion component, the
Investment Promotion Center (Centre pour la promotion des Investissements en Côte d'Ivoire -
CEPICI), charged with the investment promotion component, the Ministry of Justice in charge of
the Judicial Component and the Chamber of Industry and Commerce, in charge of strengthening
a private-sector managed Arbitration Court attached to it. A project coordination unit in the
Ministry of Finance managed all components except the Export Promotion Component, which
was managed by APEX-CI. The project assumed that, as for similar institutions, APEX-CI would
be a small institution which would require support while it implemented programs such as the
matching grant scheme, but that its staff would be very small when it was performing its role as a
representative organization. Given the experience in developing self-sustaining institutions, in
hindsight, the initial expectation regarding financial self-sufiiciency for the Arbitration Court and a
Trade Facilitation Center in APEX-CI was optimistic.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objective of the project was not revised. At the time of the mid-term review in 2002, the
emphasis of the project was modified, as discussed in the section on revised components. In
2004, a major restructuring was begun, which might have entailed a change in project objectives,
but it was never completed. Disbursements under IDA credits were suspended in June 2004, and
the Credit was closed in September 2004.

3.3 Original Components:

Detailed Project Description

The project included three components (Export Promotion; Investment Climate and
Improvements in the Judiciary), described below. The project components were directly related
to the project objectives. The project drew from lessons learned on matching grants elsewhere,
including cost sharing and demand driven features. Also, the appraisal report drew on experience
from other African legal reform programs, recognizing that legal reforms have a long gestation
period, and proposed an arbitration mechanism for settlement of commercial disputes.

1 Export promotion Component (total cost US$ 15.8 million)

The component supported a newly created private/public sector association of exporters, the
Association for Export Promotion (Association pour la Promotion des Exportations de Côte
d'Ivoire -APEX -CI), to implement an export promotion program which included a matching
grant scheme, policy dialogue and an information center.

(a)     Matching Grant Scheme. The component included the establishment of a matching grant



                                                  - 4 -

program to channel relatively small amounts of money directly to private exporters to finance part
of the cost of support services and which in turn would help develop the capacity of the local
consulting industry. The scheme was to be demand driven and the beneficiaries were to finance
part of the cost of the services. The cost sharing formula was designed to make the scheme
attractive for small enterprises and to trade associations to achieve economies of scale. The
program aimed to ensure that entrepreneurs "graduated" over time and accept to bear the cost of
expert services that they need. US$ 50,000 was the maximum allowed for most enterprises. For
medium-sized firms, the cap could be exceeded in exceptional cases, but at a lower rate of
subsidy. For associations, the total amount of matching grants was higher, as it was expected that
the member institutions would profit from the activity, and was capped at US$80,000; the subsidy
rate was set at 65 percent.

(b)     Policy Dialogue to improve business environment for exporters. The component include
support for the organization of a policy dialogue between Government officials and the exporter
community to identify and analyze regulatory constraints; develop and submit to Government
detailed proposals for policy change; and monitor their adoption and implementation. APEX-CI
was to help organize the discussions and conduct a public awareness campaign to disseminate its
findings and conclusions on reforms needed in the business environment for the development of
exports.

(c)     Trade Information Center. The component included support for the establishment of a
Trade Information Center to (a) provide access to data bases and information services available
internationally on export markets and opportunities; (b) connect Ivorian exporters with potential
suppliers and business partners abroad; (c) assist Ivorian exporters in developing communication
means (web pages etc.); (d) develop an electronic inventory of Ivorian exporters and their
capabilities for access by foreign buyers and suppliers. APEX-CI was to provide this service on
fee-for-service basis. The program was expected to be sustainable by the end of the project.

2. Investment Promotion Component (total cost: US$5.2 million)

This component was to enhance the capacity of Côte d'Ivoire to attract foreign investors, and to
provide investment facilitation and improve the competitiveness of local businesses, particularly
SMEs. It included:

(a)     Promotion of Foreign Investment (including investor targeting study, development of
websites and promotion materials, organization of two promotional events using investor
targeting methods);

(b)     Simplification of investment procedures to expand services provided by the one-stop
investment center;

(c)     Promotion of small-scale local investment through agreement on an effective SME support
strategy and provision of management training for SMEs through specifically tailored programs in
existing management schools;




                                                 - 5 -

(d)     Support to public/private sector consultation mechanism, including initial support to a
joint public/private sector committee against fraud.

3.      Strengthening of the Legal and Judicial system Component (total cost: US$ 1.5 million).

The component aimed at strengthening the legal and judiciary system through support for:

(a) Implementation of regional buisness law reform of OHADA. ( Organization for the
Harmonization of Business Law in Africa). This included dissemination of the new laws,
including their publication and dissemination to civil servants; training of legal practitioners
(magistrates, lawyers, court clerks, law professors etc.) and information of the business
community on the new laws. The project was also to support updating or abrogating of national
laws to bring them in line with the OHADA legislation.

(b) Improvement of the functioning of the judiciary. The project was to support improvement in
the functioning of the judiciary, which was viewed as a major bottleneck to private sector
operations through support to the Center for Legal Information charged with keeping up-to-date
information on legislation and major case law; re-activation of the general inspectorate of judicial
services, and strengthening of the legislative process..

(c) Improvement in the operation of the Arbitration Court (CACI-Cour d'Arbitrage de Côte
d'Ivoire). The Project was to assist the Arbitration Court established in 1997 through technical
assistance to establish the credibility of the court with national, regional and international
businesses by providing quality control during the start-up period, assist with establishing and
updating a list of qualified arbitrators, improve its procedures, publish an Arbitration Guide for
Ivorian businesses. The project would also to cover part of the operating costs of the Arbitration
Court during the start-up period and communication/promotion expenses. It was expected that
after a three-year period the court would cover most of its costs.

3.4 Revised Components:

The project was reviewed at the time of the mid-term review, in June 2002, after the Bank
resumed disbursements following a 15 month suspension. Components were refocused to make
the project more responsive to changing needs. First, in the export promotion component, the
matching grant was to concentrate on upgrading skills of exporters with particular focus on the
AGOA (Africa Growth and Opportunity Act) initiative of the United States. Second, the
investment promotion component was to be reduced considerably. It was to include (a) a
program of simplification of investment procedures, as the timing for investment promotion given
the political uncertainty was inappropriate, (b) support to the public-private consultation
committee created by decree in July 2001 (support for the committee was to be limited to
financing jointly identified studies); the institutional structure would not be financed; (c) the small
SME subcomponent would be focused on capacity building for enterprises in the road
maintenance sector, as a complement to an ongoing Transport Sector Adjustment program, which
had stalled because the small contractors which were to play a key role in implementation of the
program did not have sufficient capacity. Third, in the legal component, as the OHADA activities



                                                    - 6 -

had been partially completed, it was decided that the remaining activities (continuation of
dissemination and training) would not be financed by IDA, because they had been incorporated
into a more comprehensive program supported by other donors. Lastly, a component to support
the privatization program adopted by Government which focused on 40 enterprises that remained
to be privatized was added. A detailed action plan was prepared (output indicators were not
formally revised) and the Credit was extended for 24 months to allow time for implementation of
the project. The project description in the Development Credit Agreement was not modified.
Most of the activities fell within the original description, and the formal amendment in the Credit
Agreement required to be able to finance the privatization activities was never done because of
the changing political situation. In fact, the project reorientation was never implemented as
hostilities broke out the same month that the reorientation was approved in the Bank.

A major shift in emphasis of the project was initiated in 2003 (March 2003 mission), as an attempt
to respond quickly and proactively to the new needs of a post-conflict situation (expected to start
at that time, after the Marcoussis Agreements, but ultimately delayed for at least two years). The
restructuring would have focused the project on the creation of new activities able to substantially
increase revenue and employment of the population affected by the hostilities via the promotion of
non traditional agricultural product exports (e.g., cassava, manioc, papaya, mangoes s, and
flowers). On the institutional side, the restructuring would have involved bringing in PROMEXA,
an institution with considerable experience in export promotion along-side APEX-CI. The Bank
also sought to ensure the sustainability of APEX-CI and recommended that the institution be
reorganized with a view to improving its financial and operational performance.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry was not assessed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). The quality at entry is
rated marginally satisfactory. The project was in line with Government objectives spelled out in
the Government strategy which aimed to achieve high growth to reduce poverty through
increased investment and exports, and with the Country Assistance Strategy discussed by the
Executive Directors in August 1997. The strategy called for support to institutions and policies
which encouraged private investment to stimulate growth and exports. The project design drew
from experiences in other African countries where institutions similar to APEX-CI had been
successfully established. However, the objectives relating to financial viability of the Arbitration
Court and to a lesser extent the Trade Information Center in APEX-CI were optimistic. The
project design took into account that the institution was new and provided for training at startup
and for an experienced manager who was internationally recruited. However, the technical
support required at startup by an institution such as APEX-CI might have been underestimated.
The analysis of risks noted exporters reluctance to use support under the project and political
events which would lead to backtracking on economic reforms and an erosion of investor
confidence. Unlike other countries in Africa whose history has been characterized by political
unrest, the events that transpired in Côte d'Ivoire were unprecedented, and were not anticipated,
and were not taken into account in risks. The project was innovative in that the private sector
was actively involved in its preparation. Signing and effectiveness were delayed because the
private participants to prepare the operations manual for the matching grant without use of any
specialist support. The direct participation of the private sector in the preparation of the manual
was a positive development as it demonstrated ownership, but had not been anticipated at


                                                  - 7 -

appraisal.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The objective of the Project was to contribute to: (a) reducing the dependency on traditional
exports and increasing the share of high value added products in the nation's export structure; (b)
attracting foreign investors and promoting domestic investment, simplifying investment
procedures, reaching Government-donor consensus on best practice SME support schemes,
including management training for SMEs, and providing analytical and operational support to
private/public sector consultation mechanisms; and (c) creating a more secure legal and judicial
environment for new investors and existing businesses. Progress towards the meeting the project
objectives was to be measured and monitored through: (a) the increase in the country's
non-traditional exports; (b) the increase in foreign and domestic investment; and (c) improved
performance indicators and confidence ratings for the judiciary. The objective of increased non
traditional exports and investment by 10 percent per annum in the period 1999 to 2001 was not
met. Non traditional exports increased on average by 2.5 percent, with an absolute decline in
2003. Private investment declined from CFA687 billion per year in 1999 to CFA 562 billion in
2004. Despite some important accomplishments discussed in the section of output by
components, it is difficult to say that such measures resulted in improved performance in greater
confidence on the judiciary. The project outcome is rated unsatisfactory; the causes are
principally related to the political developments.

4.2 Outputs by components:

1 Export promotion Component

(a)     Matching Grant Scheme.

The appraisal assumed that APEX-CI would provide matching grants to 200 firms and 15
associations. The average value of the matching grant was expected to be about US$13,000 for
individual firms and US$ 25, 000 for associations. Matching grants totaling some US$ 2.2
million with investments totaling some US$ 4.2 were approved by APEX-CI, which is high
considering the developments during project implementation. The US$ 2.2 million financed some
445 grants to 149 firms and 27 associations. The average size for the grants was US$10,824 for
firms and US$24,204 for the associations, lower than appraisal estimates. A more detailed
analysis shows the following characteristics:

(i)     size: 89 of the 149 firms (60 percent) had less than 50 employees and received 51 percent
of the support;
(ii)    sector distribution: main beneficiaries were firms producing chemical pharmaceutical
products; (14 percent), agro-industry (12 percent) and                services (24 percent); the
largest number of associations dealt with tourism related activities (16 percent);
(iii)   type of activity: 115 firms on the 149 (77 percent) and 20 associations on the 27 (74
percent ) used support for marketing activities                       and



                                                  - 8 -

(iv)    location: most of the beneficiaries were in Abidjan, which is to be expected, as most
businesses are located in the capital.


The table below summarizes matching grant disbursements by type of activity:

                                                              TOTAL FIRMS
    Types of         FIRMS             ASSOCIATIONS
     Activity
                 Number      %     Number     % Total       Number    % Total
                            Total             Amount                  Amount
                          Amount

 Training        4        3        3          7             7         39

 Participation   64       36       10         58            75        422
 in trade fairs

 Market          51       16       10         21            61        174
 investigation

 Investor        4        1        2          9             5         35
 Search

 Export          26       44       2          5             28        330
 Strategy

 Total           149      100      27         100           176       100




A detailed survey which incorporated comments from the Bank was carried out in the first quarter
of 2004 covering 93 firms and 13 associations representing different sectors such as industry (14
percent), clothing (9 percent) and communication (8 percent) and advisory services (8 percent).
Half of the firms interviewed were SMEs. The main results of the survey are the following: (i) the
principal request addressed to APEX-CI was on the matching grant (75 percent of the firms
interviewed) while 14 percent and 25 percent have been in contact with Apex-CI in the context of
the policy issues and the trade information center, respectively; (ii) regarding the assessment of
the matching grant fund, only 33 on the total (31 percent) responded to questions relating to
employment and sales growth. It is unclear if the lack of responses was related to fear of revealing
information. The firms that responded confirmed that the services provided under the program
had helped them mainly in getting investment partners (7.5 percent of the firms), increasing
exports (6.6 percent) and accessing new markets (6.6 percent); (iii) the assessment relative to the
improvement of business environment sub-component shows that most of firms and associations
were interested in learning about AGOA (68 percent) and 17 percent requested the support of
APEX-CI to resolve problems relating to obstacles in export operations while 15 percent did a
training in international trade and related matters; (iv) concerning the trade information center, the
assessment of the firms interviewed was partially satisfactory and 40 percent of these firms
indicated that they would pay for the information services if their quality is good. The matching
grant program accredited firms participating in the program and most of the consulting work done



                                                 - 9 -

was carried out by local firms. It is probable that the program has contributed to strengthening
the local consulting industry even in the difficult political environment. During the life of the
project, a total of 152 consultants registered in the program (72 firms and 80 individual
consultants).

Experience during project implementation showed that efficiency would be greater if grants were
provided for clusters of firms, and in 2003, the project was to have shifted its orientation to
increasingly support clusters, such as agro-industry and apparel industries to meet demand in the
United States which opened up after the passage in the United States AGOA. The credit was
closed before this new strategy could be put in place.

(b)     Policy Dialogue to improve business environment for exporters

Following a meeting on exports prospects ("Assises du Commerce Extérieur") in February 1999,
APEX-CI assisted in the establishment of a consultative group on foreign trade ("Conseil
Consultatif du Commerce Extérieur"). APEX-CI also assisted in the implementation of other
technical assistance programs supported by the UN and Regional institutions which aimed at
strengthening the country's export strategy The insitution took the leadership in obtaining
AGOA eligibility for Côte d' Ivoire. This included upgrading government facilities to meet the
certification center requirements of the act. Cote d'Ivoire's eligibility was subsequently revoked
for reasons associated with country conditions. The project supported 22 studies principally on
matters relating to AGOA, sub-sector issues, and the Trade Information Center. The work on
AGOA led to Cote d'Ivoire's certification, although this certification has been suspended. The
impact of other studies is not known.

c)   Trade Information Center.

The center was established in 1999. A staff-training program was put in place and equipment and
databases acquired in the first two years of the project. In 2003, the center had 1022 users. Of
this total, 280 or 27 percent were businesses. The limited use of the center is largely attributed to
the economic conditions of the country, but also to the fact that the information in the center was
not kept up to date, as the databases could not be updated as planned. In 2003, a study was
carried out to determine the feasibility of "externalizing" the center activities. The
"externalization" process was never formally completed, largely because there was no private
sector interest in taking on the activity in the current political environment. The Center has been
transferred to the Ministry of Finance where it operates as part of the Economic and Financial
Information Center ("Centre d'Information Economique et Financière").

The rating of this component is unsatisfactory because the effect of the matching grant program,
the most important element of the project, cannot be measured, and it is difficult to assume
without some concrete evidence that its impact has been significant, given the political and
economic developments in the country.

2.      Investment Promotion Component




                                                  - 10 -

Most of the activities in this component could not be implemented given country conditions. In
1999, one promotion mission was carried out, and work was begun to target the promotion
activities to key markets and products. A program to strengthen the "one-stop shop" was also
prepared. The terms of reference for all work under the program were ready in 2000, but
activities could not be started because of the suspension of disbursements. Most activities relating
to investment promotion were suspended at the time of the reorientation of the project in 2002.
Support for studies relating to the private-public consultation process begun in 2002 were carried
out, as discussed above, but again, activities could not be continued because of the disbursement
suspension. The Technical Secretariat for the public/private committee was never put in place and
studies that could have subsequently been financed under the credit were never identified.

Given that the component was not implemented, the rating is unsatisfactory

3.      Strengthening of the Legal and Judicial System

OHADA. In 1993, the Government of Côte d' Ivoire, together with other French-speaking
countries in Africa, signed a treaty creating the Organization for the Harmonization of Business
Law in Africa with a view of agreeing on common business legislation for the region. The
legislation, prepared between 1993 and 2000, included the commercial code; and legislation
governing joint ventures; secured transactions (guarantees and collateral); debt recovery and
enforcement; and bankruptcy procedures. Two new acts, on arbitration and company accounting,
were adopted after 2000. The project supported the Government's program to implement the
legislation in Cote d' Ivoire. To this end, an inventory of Ivorian legislation was carried out which
identified legislation that needed to be abrogated as it was in conflict with the regional legislation.
Drafts of decrees implementing the regional legislation were also prepared. The changes
recommended have not been enacted. Lastly, the OHADA legislation was made available to
magistrates and officers of the court. At the time of the reorientation of the project in 2002, it was
decided not to continue with the dissemination and training programs planned under the project as
activities were partially complete and other donors had put in place comprehensive programs in
this area.

Improvement of the functioning of the judiciary. Very little was executed under this component.
In addition to the training sessions to disseminate information on the OHADA legislation, studies
were carried out on ways to improve the independence of judges and some work was done on
reorganization of the information systems in the ministry. The project helped reactivate the
General Inspectorate of Judicial Services, and a number of inspection missions were carried out in
Abidjan. In addition, the General Inspectorate investigated 15 cases related to complaints against
magistrates or judiciary staff.

Improved operations of an Arbitration Court (CACI). The project supported the operations of the
court for three years. CACI reports that as of April 2004, 45 cases had been the subject of
arbitration, and that some 25 enterprises included arbitration clauses in their contracts. CACI
estimates that revenues cover some 40 percent of its operating expenses. In addition, CACI
organized three seminars on the OHADA arbitration legislation and published a guide on
conciliation and arbitrage, and promotion pamphlets on arbitration



                                                 - 11 -

The technical assistance that would have helped in the promotion of the court activities and in
strengthening the competencies of the staff was never put in place because of the disbursement
suspension. In 1999, studies determined that the court's activities would be strengthened if its
decisions could be legally enforced, and the Government committed to introducing necessary
legislation to this end; the legislation was never formally adopted by the legislature, although the
draft legislation was adopted by the Council of Ministers on May 9, 2001. In 2003, the Bank
indicated that it would not continue its support of the arbitration court unless the required
legislation was passed.

Although progress was made in this component particularly in matters relating to OHADA and
the Arbitration Court, the rating is unsatisfactory given that the amendments proposed to
harmonize national legislation and the legislation on the arbitration court have not been adopted .

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The appraisal team estimated that the net present value of the project at US$6.5 million for a 12
percent discount rate, and its internal economic rate of return at 26.8 percent. The team also
estimated that the project would generate some 12,000 jobs in the export sector. Because of the
internal situation in Côte d'Ivoire at the time of project closing, it was impossible to carry out
planned studies on the impact of the sub-projects financed by the matching grant, the main activity
financed under the project and for which benefits could be quantified.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact is negligible, as none of the institutions associated with the
project was able to achieve its expected development. APEX-CI was to have developed as a
trade association financed by its members, but this goal has not been accomplished. Membership
increased from 111 at the beginning of the project, to 267 at the end of 2003, but member
contributions did not increase. It is possible that members viewed participation in APEX-CI as a
vehicle for obtaining grants, and the insitution's paying membership has declined since the grant
program was closed. APEX-CI revenues reached a high of US$60,000 in 2000, and
progressively declined in the following years reaching less than US$10,000 in 2004. At the time of
the 2004 project restructuring, PROMEXA, a members-based exporter association (focusing on
agricultural exports) was to have been brought in to implement aspects of the project. APEX-CI
staff acquired expertise in project management, small project evaluation and information
facilitation. CACI has gained valuable experience in arbitration procedures, although ultimately,
the effectiveness of CACI will depend on the enactment of legislation that permits the legal
enforcement of its arbitral decisions.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:




                                                     - 12 -

The main factor was the political situation that started unraveling a few months after Credit
effectiveness and eventually led to a period of open hostilities between October 2002 and January
2003. Although a peace treaty was signed in January 2003, the political situation remains
unstable, and troops from United Nations and France are helping keep the peace. As the political
situation remained unstable, investors lost confidence. The private sector has been fighting for
survival and unable to focus on programming investments.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The Government understood and agreed with the objective of creating an independent
private-sector led institution in APEX-CI, but in practice, because it had helped create it, the
Government tended to treat it as a one of its agencies (both the Government and APEX-CI staff
used to refer to the institution as "Agence" and not "Association"). During the period of
suspension from October 2000 to January 2002, the Government financed the operating costs of
APEX-CI, which permitted continuity. However, this support only reinforced the government
control of the institution, which more than tripled its personnel, leading to a structure quite
different from that envisaged in the initial project documents. During the suspension period, the
Government was not able to provide interim support to the private sector by continuing the
matching grant program. Legislation to make the decisions CACI enforceable, which would have
strengthened the institution, was never passed.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

APEX-CI helped maintain project continuity during very difficult circumstances. An efficient
management information system was not put in place, even though it was planned, with the result
that APEX-CI cannot readily generate information on the detailed characteristics of its matching
grant program.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Actual project costs were US$ 10.4 compared to US$ 23.3 million estimated at appraisal. About
forty percent of the project costs were attributed to private investment funded under the matching
grant scheme. About 50 percent of the IDA credit disbursed. IDA funds supported mostly the
matching grant program and operating costs of the project unit (which were funded under the
operating cost and consulting categories), which was maintained throughout the project
implementation period, as the assessment was made that the unit was needed for the expected
return to project implementation. Given the track record of Côte d'Ivoire, the decision to keep a
core unit in place was reasonable.       Costs are given in Annex 2.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The impact of the matching grant was not assessed, although its funding probably contributed to
some activities that will last, such as the strengthening of the local consulting industry, and to the
sustainability of some firms. On the whole, it is not possible to rate the matching grant as
sustainable. As discussed in the section on institutional development impact, it is not likely that



                                                    - 13 -

APEX-CI will be sustainable as a member-based organization, although it could continue to
operate if funded by the Government or donors. In 2004, the Government and APEX-CI signed
an agreement aimed at the continuation of the activities of APEX-CI with the exception of the
matching grant fund; under the agreement, the Government will provide some US$ 3 million to
support APEX-CI operations during the 2004-2007 to ensure continuity of the institution's work
in promoting an environment conducive to exports. As APEX-CI becomes a government funded
institution, it is to be expected that it would follow the government's accounting, auditing and
reporting requirements. If the Government chooses to maintain APEX-CI, the institution will
remain in existence and would be sustainable, although it would not meet the objectives originally
envisaged in the project. As the most important component of the project cannot be rated as
sustainable, sustainability is rated as unlikely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The Bank has prepared an Interim Strategy, which it will present to the Executive Directors when
the political situation permits. Support to create new activities generating revenues and jobs is
likely to be introduced in the interim program. The project activities designed in 2004 to support
new activities are still required and could be part of an emergency recovery operation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance during the identification, preparation and appraisal was on the whole
satisfactory. The project preparation entailed an extensive consultation process with all
stakeholders. The project was in line with both the strategic objectives of the government of
promoting growth through increased investment and exports. The project was also in line with the
Bank's strategy for Cote d'Ivoire. The project provided support to diversification efforts, and in
that sense was less complex than similar projects prepared by the Bank at the time. The analysis
in the Project Appraisal Document is comprehensive. Risks directly associated with the project
were discussed, including political events, which could erode investor confidence, and the
reluctance of government agencies to cooperate in investment facilitation. The risk of political
problems of the type that emerged could not have been anticipated. The objectives of financial
sustainability for key institutions in the project were optimistic. The need to allow considerable
time for the private sector to participate in the preparation of the project manual was not
identified, which resulted in delays in effectiveness.

7.2 Supervision:

Overall, project supervision is rated marginally satisfactory; country conditions largely explain the
supervision difficulties. Côte d'Ivoire was under UN Security rating 3 (only priority activities) or
4 (evacuation) for much of the five and one half years of project implementation.

Three missions from headquarters led by the task managers supervised the project between
effectiveness in March 1999 and April 2001, which was below average. Headquarters staff did not
carry out field supervision missions from April 2001 to January 2002 which coincided with a



                                                  - 14 -

difficult electoral period and the suspension of disbursements, (October 2000 - to January 2002).
Two missions visited in 2002 after the lifting of the disbursement suspension (one the mid-term
review). At this time, when it was expected that the political situation would stabilize, the Bank
acted proactively and the project reorientation was started. The closing date was extended for
two years, which reflected the prevailing optimism that the political situation was being resolved.
In hindsight, the credit could have been extended for a shorter period of time.

There was one mission in 2003 after the Marcoussis Agreements which were expected to have led
to a solution of the political problems, with the objective of restructuring the project, and the
project was put in a priority list of projects which could respond quickly to needs as peace
returned. The last Task Manager, who was the Private Sector Specialist in the country office, led
the final supervision mission in 2004. Shortly after the mission, disbursements were suspended
and they remain suspended to date. There were five task managers during the implementation of
the project, which did not help ensure the continuity that would have been desired. Because of
the difficulties in visiting the country, reporting was not complete. PSR's did not include
information on performance indicators.

The Bank acted proactively to restructure the project to address new needs on two occasions.
Also, after the lifting of suspension in 2002, the Bank agreed to refinance the project team in
APEX-CI, which had been pre-financed by the Government during the suspension period,
although the Bank, correctly, did not finance all the staff that had been appointed during the
period of suspension. Throughout implementation, the Bank team made the understandable
judgment that the only form in which the Bank could provide urgently needed support to Côte
d'Ivoire when conditions stabilized would be through existing projects, given the time it takes to
process and approve new operations.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall, Bank performance is rated marginally satisfactory. The project addressed key problems
and generally well prepared. Supervision was probably insufficient in the first two years of the
project, and hampered since 2000 by the inability to visit the country regularly. This partly
explains the problems with reporting on project status and knowledge of indicator development.
The Bank acted proactively and was ready to support Côte d'Ivoire through this project if
country conditions had improved.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Government performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. This was a period of strong
growth, high expectations and a dynamic leadership by the Government economic team. The
Government had undertaken important policy and institutional reforms to improve the business
environment, including the adoption of the OHADA regional legal framework and the abolition of
inefficient institutions in investment and export promotion. The private sector was actively
involved in a consultative process with Government participated in the preparation of the Private
Sector Adjustment Credit and of this operation, and in fact participated in the negotiations of the
adjustment program.



                                                  - 15 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government was actively involved in APEX-CI throughout project implementation
(APEX-CI management was involved in a number of semi-official duties such as accompanying
government delegations in functions and trips) which probably made it difficult for the institution
to develop as a private sector representative organization.The Government financed the project
team salaries during the suspension period, which permitted continuity until project activities
restarted in 2002, and in general, met its counterpart financing obligations, including its
contributions to APEX-CI. Also, it is maintaining the information center established under the
project. Also, perhaps because of other priorities, the Government did not enact critical
legislation to ensure the success of CACI and nor the legislation to harmonize the OHADA acts
with national legislation. Government performance during implementation is rated marginally
satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Both the PIU and the APEX CI conducted their project management functions in a generally
satisfactory manner with respect to accounting, auditing and reporting, given country conditions.
Reporting was substantially less than usually associated with Bank-financed projects. Annual
audits were carried out in a generally timely manner. APEX-CI had difficulty at the end of the
project generating information on the project, which was partly explained by the weak
management information system. CACI, the Arbitration court, performed its functions in a
satisfactory manner. The investment promotion center, CEPECI, was only involved in the first
two years of the project, and its performance in the few activities it was involved in was
satisfactory. The overall rating on implementation is marginally satisfactory; the rating is linked to
the performance of APEX-CI.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall Borrower performance is marginally satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

If feasible, private sector support programs should be implemented by established private
sector representative institutions. Experience in this project is similar to that in other countries
where newly established private sector associations have difficulty in developing, partly because
their initial focus is the implementation of a specific program. Also, because government
supported APEX-CI, and Government had a close link with it, the institution never really
operated independently. It is in general preferable to use existing institutions to implement
projects. In cases where this is not feasible, a specialist unit should be set up to manage the
program to support the private sector. Support to new private sector associations would be most
beneficial if it were focused on their representational and information functions.

Extending projects past their closing date provides an opportunity to reinitiate support in
countries experiencing political problems. The decision to extend the closing date in 2002



                                                 - 16 -

opened the door for some activities to be pursued in 2003 and 2004. Existing projects are a good
vehicle to quickly restart operations in a country after a period of civil unrest. The project
restructuring designed in 2004 to support the creation of new activities generating revenue and
employment could be part of a future emergency project.

Support to enterprises might be more effective if provided to clusters. Experience with the
project suggests that supporting clusters of enterprises would increase the efficiency of the
technical assistance and marketing provided. This is particularly true as matching grant programs
are often geared to smaller enterprises. This approach, which is being used in a number of African
countries, would have been adopted if the project had been reoriented in 2004.

Support to enterprises might be more result-oriented and selective. .The matching grant
program should follow a supply chain approach with the support implemented on two levels:
strengthening the capacity downstream of the process (identification of market with a real
demand) and strengthening the capacity upstream to help to satisfy the identified market. In
addition, more selectivity through support to enterprises which have already a potential to face the
new market ( without financing constraints) could get results.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


I.      Description du projet

1)      Historique

La mise en oeuvre du PASP a fait suite au besoin identifié par le gouvernement de Cote d'Ivoire
d'appuyer le secteur privé. Le PASP a été précédé par le Projet CAS-PRIVE et par plusieurs
missions préparatoires d'équipes de la Banque Mondiale. Ceci a permis d'identifier les points
critiques et les améliorations à apporter en ce qui concerne la politique d'appui au secteur privé, à
savoir :

-     La trop grande dépendance en terme d'exportations sur les produits
       traditionnels
-       La faiblesse des investissements
-       Un environnement des affaires à améliorer, notamment en ce qui concerne le système
judiciaire, la fraude et la corruption.
-       La nécessité de développer le dialogue secteur publique-secteur privé.

Ces constats ont constitués les axes de la stratégie d'appui du PASP. Les négociations ont été
entamées en 1995, et l'accord de crédit a été signé en 1998. La mise en oeuvre s'est faite à partir
de Septembre 1999.

La durée du projet était prévue pour une période initiale de trois ans prenant fin le 30 Septembre
2002, mais il a connu deux prorogations pour s'achever officiellement le 30 Septembre 2004.




                                                - 17 -

Le projet a connu plusieurs modifications dans sa structure et ses activités, notamment avec
l'abandon de plusieurs composantes.

2)       Objectifs et résultats attendus

L'objectif principal fixé au PASP était d'aider la Côte d'Ivoire à accroître le niveau de ses
investissements et de ses exportations en contribuant :

i)à réduire sa dépendance à l'égard des produits d'exportations traditionnels et à accroître la part
des produits à forte valeur ajoutée dans ses exportations;

ii)à attirer les investisseurs étrangers et à promouvoir l'investissement intérieur ;

iii)à rendre le cadre juridique et judiciaire plus efficace pour les investisseurs et les entreprises
existantes.

La réalisation de ces objectifs devaient être mesurée par les indicateurs généraux suivants :

a)la croissance des exportations non traditionnels de la Côte d'Ivoire

b) la croissance des investissements étrangers et locaux ;

c)l'amélioration des indicateurs de performance et du niveau de confiance dans le système
judiciaire.

3)       Composantes

Le PASP comprend trois composantes principales:

§        La composante « promotion des exportations » gérée de façon entièrement autonome par
l'APEX-CI pour laquelle un accord de projet a été signé avec la Banque Mondiale

§        La composante « promotion des investissements ». cette composante comprend :
Ø        La promotion de l'investissement et la simplification des procédures le concernant. Ce
volet est géré par le Centre de Promotion des Investissement en Côte d'Ivoire (CEPICI)
Ø        La promotion des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises (PME)
Ø        L'amélioration du climat des affaires au travers de la fournitures de services consultatifs
techniques pour l'appui analytique aux réformes du Comité de Liaison et renforcement des
capacités du Conseil National de Lutte contre la Fraude (CNLF)

§        La composante renforcement du système juridique et judiciaire
Ø        Mise en oeuvre de la réforme du droit des affaires de l'OHADA
Ø        Amélioration du fonctionnement de l'appareil judiciaire par la fournitures des services
consultatifs techniques
Ø        Amélioration du fonctionnement de la Cour d'Arbitrage de la Côte d'Ivoire (CACI)



                                                  - 18 -

4)      Cadre institutionnel

D'une manière générale, le PASP était sous la tutelle du Ministère de l'Economie et des Finances.

La mise en oeuvre du projet s'est faite par le biais des institutions suivantes :

Ø       Pour la composante A, les activités étaient mises en oeuvre et gérées par l'Association
pour la Promotion des Exportations de Côte d'Ivoire (APEX-CI) L'APEX-CI a fait l'objet d'un
accord spécifique avec la Banque Mondiale lui donnant la gestion autonome d' un compte spécial
dédié au financement des acitivites de la composante A.
Ø       Les composantes B et C étaient coordonnées par par la Cellule Technique de
Coordination (CTC). Les institutions suivantes devaient en assurer la mise en oeuvre:

Composante B :

-       CEPICI pour la promotion des investissements
-       Ministère en charge des PME pour l'appui aux PME
-       Le Comité de Lutte Contre la Fraude pour la lutte contre la fraude et la corruption
-       Le Ministère en charge du Secteur Privé pour le comite de liaison Secteur-Publique
Secteur Privé.

Composante C :

-       La Chambre de Commerce et d'Industrie pour l'appui a la CACI
-       Le Ministère de la Justice pour la réforme du droit des affaires de l'OHADA et l'
amélioration du fonctionnement de l'appareil judiciaire


5)      Evaluation de la conception du projet et de la phase de préparation

La conception du PASP a été le fruit d'une concertation fructueuse entre le Banque Mondiale et
l'Etat de Cote d'Ivoire par le biais de plusieurs mission préparatoires. De plus le projet a bénéficie
de l'expérience du CAS Prive. Cependant, il est important de noter que certaines des composantes
n'ont pas bénéficie d'un travail preparatorie complet, ce qui a constitue une entrave a leur mise en
oeuvre efficace. Il s'agit notamment de la sous composante appui aux PME , pour laquelle la phase
préparatoire n'a sélectionne aucune structure pour sa mise en oeuvre , ni même définit un plan
d'action.

On peut aussi noter que le trop grand nombre de composantes et de sous-composantes inscrites au
projet pourrait être considéré comme un frein a sa mise en oeuvre efficace.


II.     Résultats et impacts




                                                 - 19 -

      Pour la plupart des composantes, les activités prévues n'ont pu être réalisées compte tenu de
      la situation socio-politique particulière du pays. Les résultats et impact sont donc limités.

1)      APEX-CI

Gérée de manière autonome, la composante APEXCI avait pour objectif principal d'accroître la
rentabilité des entreprises exportatrices ivoiriennes en améliorant l'environnement, les structures
de soutien et les interfaces avec les marchés extérieurs. Elle a donc mis en place trois instruments :
le FADEX,le fonds a coûts partagés devant financer les actions directes de développement des
exportations, le FAMEX qui lui devait servir à l'amélioration de l'environnement interne et
international des entreprises exportatrices et la CIC qui est un centre de collecte et d'échange
d'informations interactif et en temps réel. Cela a contribué au renforcement de la culture
d'exportation, à l'amélioration de la capacité exportatrice des entreprises membres de
l'association. En plus, l'APEX-CI a renforcé sa fonction d'intermédiation à l'exportation et de
lobby avec notamment l'obtention de l'éligibilité de la Côte d'Ivoire au programme AGOA.

Plus spécifiquement, les résultats principaux en ce qui concerne l'APEX-CI sont les suivants :

FADEX

- 149 projets d'entreprises ont été co-financés pour un montant total de 810 000 000 FCFA. En
termes de financement les projets d'entreprises concernent majoritairement le développement de
stratégies export (44%), la participation aux foires (36%) et la prospection (16%).

- 27 projets d'associations ont été financés pour un montant total de 328 000 000 FCFA. Les
appuis aux association ont financé principalement des participations aux foires (58%) et de la
prospection (21%).

FAMEX

Le FAMEX a permis la réalisation de plusieurs études et actions pour l'amélioration de
l'environnement des exportations. Les plus importantes en termes d'impacts sont les suivantes :

-       Action pour l'elligibilite de la Cote d'Ivoire au programme AGOA ayant permis
l'inscription de ce pays sur la liste des états bénéficiaires.
-       Organisation des assises du Commerce (ACOMEX) ayant permis de définir une feuille de
route pour la stratégie commerciale de la Cote d'Ivoire.
-       Production et édition de deux guides a l'intention des entreprises exportatrices :
<comment approcher les banques>, et <les clefs de l'exportation>.
-       Etudes <CAP sur l'UEMOA> définissant les stratégies de la Cote d'Ivoire pour exporter
vers les pays de l'UEMOA.

CIC




                                                  - 20 -

Entre 2000 et 2002 , le Centre d'Information Commercial (CIC) a reçu 7860 visites. Les visiteurs
étaient constitués principalement de commerciaux (21%) et d'étudiants (13%). Les informations
recherchées concernaient en premier lieu la recherche de partenariat et d'opportunité d'affaires
(36%).

Un accord avec le Ministère de l'Economie et des Finances a permis le transfert en 2004 du CIC à
cette structure qui en assure la gestion.

Autres

On peut noter aussi que l'APEX-CI a contribué de manière active à la constitution et à la
formation d'une base de spécialistes en exportation, avec notamment plus de 150 experts experts
enregistrés dans la base de données APEX-CI.

De plus l'APEX-CI a signé des accords de partenariat avec plusieurs organisations de promotion
du commerce ou des exportations, au niveau national, sous-regional et international.

2)      CEPICI

Le plan d'action prévoyait notamment des activités pour la simplification des procédures
d'investissement, l'accroissement et la diversification des investissements et l'appui institutionnel
au CEPICI.

- En ce qui concerne la simplification des procédures, des termes de référence ont été élaborés,
mais l'étude n'a pu être réalisée

- Avec l'appui du MIGA, le CEPICI a devellopé un programme de renforcement de capacité .
Cependant ce programme n'a pas pu être mis en oeuvre.

Vu les difficultés de développer un programme de promotion des investissements dans le contexte
de crise qu'a connu le pays, cette composante a été abandonnée.

3)      APPUI AUX PME

En ce qui concerne la composante Appui aux PME, le programme d'activité n'a jamais vraiment
démarrer. D'abord il s'était agit pour la Banque Mondiale de trouver une agence d'exécution pour
cette composante. Apres plusieurs contacts, notamment avec le Ministère en charges des PME, il
avait été décidé de se concentrer sur les PME du secteur des travaux publics afin de créer une
synergie avec les projets de réhabilitation des routes alors en cours. Suite à des séances de travail
avec le Ministère des Infrastructures, un plan d'action a été défini, mais n'a jamais été mis en
oeuvre.

Cette composante a été abandonnée dans la dernière version du projet.

4)      JUSTICE



                                                 - 21 -

La composante Justice avait à charge la divulgation et la formation des professionnels au Droit
OHADA, la réactivation de l'inspection ainsi que la reforme des greffes. Sur ces points les
résultats obtenus sont les suivants :

-        Production et Distribution de 500 exemplaires des textes annotés du droit OHADA
professionnels du droit
-        Travail d'harmonisation par le professeur Issa Sayegh entre les textes OHADA et le droit
national . Ces travaux devait donner lieu à des disposition législatives et juridiques. Cependant, en
date d'aujourd'hui , elles n'ont encore été prises.
-        Il était prévu la mise en place d'un système informatique de gestion pour le registre de
commerce et pour le crédit mobilier. Il a été décidé que cette activité serait financée par d'autres
bailleurs de fonds, notamment la coopération francaise et la BAD.
    Il avait été prévu que la BAD financerait la plupart des autres activités prévues dans le plan
    d'action de cette composante. Aussi, afin d'optimiser les appuis, cette composante a été sortie
    du projet.

5)       LUTTE CONTRE LA FRAUDE

Dans la première partie du projet, cette composante a fournit un appui au Comité de lutte contre
la fraude qui a effectué plusieurs contrôles. Cependant lors du changement de pouvoir survenu
après le coup d'état de Décembre 1999, le comité a été fermé et la lutte contre la fraude confiée a
la primature.
Une tentative de réactivation de la composante a été entreprise avec notamment la rédaction de
termes de référence pour une étude de lutte contre la fraude et la corruption. Vu l'intérêt de
l'Union Européenne pour le sujet, il a été décidé de sortir cette composante du projet pour une
optimiser les appuis des différents bailleurs de fonds. Cependant, l'appui de l'UE n'a jamais été
mis en place.

6)       CACI

L'objectif principal de la CACI étant de proposer au secteur privé un mode alternatif de règlement
des conflits au travers de l'arbitrage et de la conciliation, il fallait donc adapter la structure de la
CACI et les textes réglementaires au nouvel environnement de l'arbitrage en Côte d'Ivoire. A cet
effet, les opérateurs économiques et les professionnels du droit ont été sensibilisés au travers de
plusieurs séminaires de formations et de la création d'un site Web en Juin 2000, à l'utilisation des
modes de règlements des différends proposés par la CACI et plus d'une centaine de contrats au
cours de l'année 2000 comportaient les clauses CACI. En outre, dans le but de l'amélioration de
l'environnement législatif et réglementaire de l'arbitrage en Côte d'Ivoire, un avant projet de loi
susceptible de faciliter et d'accélérer l'exécution des sentences arbitrales par les juges a été élaboré
et transmis pour signature au Ministère de la Justice depuis Mai 2000. Mais la situation
socio-politique qui prévaut depuis lors n'a pas permis sa signature et freine du coup le
développement des activités de cette structure .

7)       COMITE DE LIAISON



                                                  - 22 -

Suite aux séances de travail avec le Ministère en charge du secteur prive, un plan d'action a été
élaboré avec notamment la création d'un secrétariat exécutif pour le comité. Cependant ce plan
n'a pas pu être mis en oeuvre. Il est pourtant important de noter que le comité a été effectivement
créé par le gouvernement et qu'un financement a été mis en place par l'Etat pour son appui.

III.    Durabilité et pérennisation

La pérennisation du projet se fera au travers des structures qu'il a permis de mettre en place.

      1. Structures :

-       L'APEX-CI est aujourd'hui une structure à grande visibilité et avec une expérience
avérée dans le domaine de la promotion des exportations. Elle bénéficie actuellement d'un
financement de l'Etat de Cote d'Ivoire pour son fonctionnement et la réalisation de certaines de
ses activités. La pérennisation de ce financement pourrait se faire par le biais prélèvements
parafiscaux pour lesquels le secteur privé a déjà donné son accord de principe. L'APEX-Ci se
définit aujourd'hui comme une structure d'intermédiation avec une expertise dans le secteur
export. Dans ce cadre, elle travaille avec des structures et des bailleurs pour la réalisation de
projets spécifiques.

-       La CACI est entièrement intégrée dans la Chambre de Commerce et d'Industrie de Cote
d'Ivoire (CCI-CI) qui en assure le financement. Cette prise en charge par une structure émanant
du secteur prive avec un membership important peut assurer sa survie. Cependant, il est
primordiale que les dispositions législatives en ce qui concerne l'exécution des sentences arbitrales
soient prises.

-       Le Comité de liaison secteur public-secteur privé a été officiellement constitué et a reçu
un financement sur budget de l'Etat de Cote d'Ivoire.

-       Le programme de renforcement de capacité élaboré pour le CEPICI avec l'aide du MIGA
devrait permettre d'optimiser la gestion de cette structure et d'en faire une agence efficace de
promotion des investissements. Il s'agit de trouver un financement pour les actions prévues dans
ce programme.


IV.     PRINCIPAUX FACTEURS AYANT INFLUENCE L'EXECUTION ET LES
RESULTATS DU PROJET

La mise en oeuvre du projet a été fortement perturbée par deux facteurs principaux :

1. Situation socio-politique.

Le PASP a été mis en oeuvre a partir de Septembre 1999. La Cote d'Ivoire a connu un coup
d'Etat en Décembre de cette même année. Depuis la situation socio-politique ne s'est pas



                                                 - 23 -

stabilisée avec notamment les troubles lors des élections en 2000, un conflit armé en 2002 et un
contexte difficile depuis lors. Cet état de fait a rendu caduque plusieurs aspects du plan d'action,
particulièrement en ce qui concerne la promotion des investissements, et a minimisé le potentiel
des actions de devellopement des exportations ou du plan d'action justice.

2. Les relations avec la Banque Mondiale

Les perturbations socio-politiques ont eu pour conséquences des difficultés de trésorerie pour
l'Etat de Cote d'Ivoire. Il s'en est suivit des suspensions de décaissement dans les projets Banque
Mondiale pour non-paiement des encours et arriérés dus. Ceci a fortement perturbé le projet,
empêchant la réalisation des activités prévues dans le plan d'action.

V.      ANALYSE CRITIQUE DES PERFORMANCES RESPECTIVES DE LA BANQUE
ET DE L'EMPRUNTEUR

Les performances de la Banque ont fortement été affectées par le trop grand nombre de
changements dans l'équipe de supervision du projet. Ceci a empêché une continuité dans la
gestion du projet et a généré de nombreuse modifications en ce qui concerne les stratégies
proposées. Plusieurs composantes ont été retranchée, d'autres ont été ajoutées et au moins trois
plans d'actions différents ont été élaborés.

De plus, lors des changements de Chargés de Projet, il y a eu des périodes intermédiaires durant
lesquelles il a semblé que le projet manquait d'interlocteur du coté de la Banque.

VI.     EVALUATION ECONOMIQUE ET FINANCIERE DU PROJET

Les couts du projets et les realisations budgetaires sont les suivants :




                                                  - 24 -

                                                                 REALISATION PAR COMPOSANTE

                                                                 EN MILLIONS DE F CFA


Composante                                              Budget                  Realisation        Pourcentage

                                                BM        Etat     Prives  BM       Etat   Prives BM Etat Prives




PartieA:      Developpement des exportations    3,160     2,525     2,210  2,762    2,339    586  87% 93%   27%



Partie B: Promotion de l'investissement        1,965       615              331     196      -    17% 32%

CEPICI                                                                        5

Lutte Contre la Fraude                                                        3


Concertation Secteur Prive-Secteur Publique                                   3

Appui aux PME                                                                12

Coordination                                                                308     196


Parite C: Justice                                490        65      205     185       -      -    38%  0%

Juctice                                                                      46

CACI                                                                        139


Couts de Base                                  5,615     3,205     2,415  3,278    2,535    586   58% 79%   24%

PPF                                              125                        101

Reserve                                          265


TOTAL                                          6,005     3,205     2,415  3,379    2,535    586   56% 79%   24%




VI.       EVALUATION ECONOMIQUE ET FINANCIERE DU PROJET

Les coûts du projets et les réalisations budgétaires sont les suivants :




                                                         - 25 -

    I. Description du projet

            1) Historique

La mise en oeuvre du PASP a fait suite au besoin identifié par le gouvernement de Cote
d'Ivoire d'appuyer le secteur privé. Le PASP a été précédé par le Projet CAS-PRIVE et par
plusieurs missions préparatoires d'équipes de la Banque Mondiale. Ceci a permis d'identifier
les points critiques et les améliorations à apporter en ce qui concerne la politique d'appui au
secteur privé, à savoir :

   - La trop grande dépendance en terme d'exportations sur les produits
       traditionnels

    -   La faiblesse des investissements

    -   Un environnement des affaires à améliorer, notamment en ce qui concerne le système
        judiciaire, la fraude et la corruption.

    -   La nécessité de développer le dialogue secteur publique-secteur privé.

Ces constats ont constitués les axes de la stratégie d'appui du PASP. Les négociations ont été
entamées en 1995, et l'accord de crédit a été signé en 1998. La mise en oeuvre s'est faite à
partir de Septembre 1999.

La durée du projet était prévue pour une période initiale de trois ans prenant fin le 30
Septembre 2002, mais il a connu deux prorogations pour s'achever officiellement le 30
Septembre 2004.

Le projet a connu plusieurs modifications dans sa structure et ses activités, notamment avec
l'abandon de plusieurs composantes.

            2) Objectifs et résultats attendus

L'objectif principal fixé au PASP était d'aider la Côte d'Ivoire à accroître le niveau de ses
investissements et de ses exportations en contribuant :

        i)à réduire sa dépendance à l'égard des produits d'exportations traditionnels et à
accroître la part des produits à forte valeur ajoutée dans ses exportations;

        ii)à attirer les investisseurs étrangers et à promouvoir l'investissement intérieur ;

        iii)à rendre le cadre juridique et judiciaire plus efficace pour les investisseurs et les
entreprises existantes.

La réalisation de ces objectifs devaient être mesurée par les indicateurs généraux suivants :

a)la croissance des exportations non traditionnels de la Côte d'Ivoire

b) la croissance des investissements étrangers et locaux ;
                                                   - 26 -

VII.    LEÇONS A TIRER ET PERSPECTIVES POUR LE FUTUR POUR LA
PERENNISATION DES ACQUIS


Les leçons à tirer sur le PASP sont trois ordres :

1. La nécessité d'une simplification dans la structure de tels projets :

Une trop grande complexité de la structure du projet peut constituer une entrave à son succès.
Dans le cas du PASP , il y avait une trop grande multiplicité de composantes et de structures
d'exécution, avec en plus deux comptes spéciaux séparés.

2. Une stratégie intégrée

Le plan d'action du PASP était structuré autour du renforcement de capacité et de l'amélioration
de l'environnement des affaires. L'axe financement n'était pas inclus. Sans cet axe toute stratégie
d'appui au secteur privé est limitée. Il faudrait ajouter une composante `appui à la recherche de
financement'

Dans l'éventualité de la mise en place d'un autre projet d'appui au secteur privé, il serait
primordial de prendre en compte ces deux facteurs.

3. Une continuité dans la gestion du Projet

Un trop grand nombre de changements nuit à l'efficacité du projet et altère sa crédibilité auprès
des partenaires. Il est primordial que les modifications soient suggérées et initiées par les
structures bénéficiaires, faute de quoi , il se pose un problème d´appropriation des stratégies
proposées.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

ICR Team :

Emmanuel Diarra - ICR Teask Team Leader


Comments Received from:



                                                  - 27 -

Francesco Scaduto-Mendola
Evelyn Anna Kennedy
Francois Nankobogo
Elke Kreuzweiser
Herminia Martinez




                             - 28 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



Indicator/Matrix                Projected in    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                last PSR 1/
Outcome
Non traditional exports                         Investment: -13,9% in 2000; +21.8% in
increase by 10% and                             2001; -17.6% in 2002; -3.6% in 2003
Investment                                      and ­1.5% in 2004
(non-traditional) increase
by 10% p.a. in 1999-2001                        Exports: 6.5% in 2000; 2.1% in 2001;
                                                15% in 2002; -3.5% in 2003 and 4.5% in
                                                2004
Outputs
Export Promotion
Matching Grants:
-minimum 50 firms (first                         -25 firms (first year), 28 firms (second
year); 75 (second year), 100                     year), 24 firms (third year), 37 firms
(third year)                                     (fourth year), 59 firms (fifth year) and
-75% of firms: (i) increase no                   95 firms (sixth year).
less than 25% value exports                      -no information available on sales
(ii)introduction of new
products; (iii) diversification
of export markets
Policy dialogue:
-At least 2 export constraints                   -22 studies and actions taken in the
eliminated each year.                            framework of AGOA
Information Center:
-100 members/500 usages                          -280 business usages in 2003.
after first year of operations
Investment
Promotion/Facilitation
Promotion                                        Sub-component not implemented
Contacts followed by
investor visit increased.
Procedures                                       Sub-component not implemented
Maximum processing time
ranging from 2 days to
maximum one month
-Assessment of SME                               -Study carried out in 1999. Donors
programs; donors SME                             could not advance discussion because of
representatives agree on                         country conditions.
strategy.



                                             - 29 -

Consultation Mechanism              Meetings of Consultation group were
established (including meets        held periodically, but studies not carried
once a month; produced at           out.
least 4 studies)
-National Council on fight          -Sub-component not implemented
against corruption curtails
corruption.
Legal/Judicial                     .
Environment
-OHADA: information                 -Dissemination of OHADA law,
readily available; existing         Inventory of national legislation carried
legislation brought in line         out and legislation that conflicted with
with OHADA.                         OHADA identified. Implementing
                                    decrees to implement the regional laws
                                    drafted.
-Arbitration Court: handles         -Court handled 45 cases as of March
15 cases in year 1; 25 in           2004. Covered 40 percent of its
year 2; and 35 in year 3;           operating costs. Legislation required to
covers 75% of expenses in           render court effective never approved
year 3.
1/ Not tracked in PSR's




                                - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Export Component                                            15.80             9.10              58

Investment Promotion                                         5.20             0.60              12
Strenthening of Legal and Judicial System                    1.50             0.50              33
PPF and Contingencies                                        0.80             0.20


Total Baseline Cost                                         23.30           10.40
                        Total Project Costs                 23.30           10.40
                  Total Financing Required                  23.30           10.40


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.00            2.00         0.00          0.00         2.00
                                   (0.00)          (1.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (1.00)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         7.90          0.00         7.90
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (5.90)          (0.00)       (5.90)
4. Matching Grant Fund              0.00            0.00        11.00          0.00         11.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (3.60)          (0.00)       (3.60)
5. Operating Cost                   0.00            0.00         1.50          0.00         1.50
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.70)          (0.00)       (0.70)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            0.00            2.00        20.40          0.00         22.40
                                   (0.00)          (1.00)      (10.20)         (0.00)      (11.20)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.00           0.30         0.00           0.00        0.30
                                   (0.00)         (0.24)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.24)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00         3.17           0.00        3.17
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (2.77)         (0.00)       (2.77)
4. Matching Grant Fund              0.00           0.00         5.88           0.00        5.88

                                                - 31 -

                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.10)            (0.00)           (2.10)
   5. Operating Cost                       0.00               0.00              0.81             0.00              0.81
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.08)            (0.00)           (0.08)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                0.00               0.30              9.86             0.00             10.16
                                          (0.00)             (0.24)            (4.95)            (0.00)           (5.19)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Export Promotion               6.32         5.05         4.42        5.08         1.91       2.10       80.4      37.8     47.5
Of Which Matching Grant        5.74         4.60         2.12        2.10         1.68       2.10       36.6      36.5     99.1
Investment Promotion           3.93         1.23         0.08        0.44         0.14       0.01       11.2      11.4     12.5
Strengthening Legal and        0.98         0.13         0.41        0.30         0.04       0.13       30.6      30.8     31.7
Judicial System
PPF                            0.25                                  0.20                               80.0
Contingencies                  0.53                                                                      0.0
Total                         12.00         6.41         4.91        6.02         2.21       2.23       50.2      34.5     45.4

   Government figures to be updated




                                                          - 32 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               3/6/95                    2    Sr. Economist (1), PSD
                                              Special;ist (1)
               6/19/96                   1    PSD Specialist (1)
               1/15/97                   1    Sr. Economist (1)
               4/7/97 (post              1    Sr. Economist (1)
               appraisal)
               5/29/98 (post             1    Sr. Economist (1)
               appraisal)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               Apraisal                       Sr. Economist (1), PSD
               9/25/95                        Specialist (1); Legal Counsel
                                              (2); Customs Specialist (1);
                                              Export Promotion Specialist
                                              (1)


 Supervision

               10/14/1999                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)                   S               S
               03/13/2000                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                  U               S
                                              PSD Specialist (1) Lawyer (2)

               3/10/01                   2    TTL (1), Private Sector Specialist     U               U
                                              TTL (1); Private Sector Specialist
               1/14/02                   7    (3); Financial Management
                                              Specialistr (1); Procurement
                                              Specialist (1); Disbursement
                                              Assistant (1)
                                              TTL (1); Private Sector
               6/10/02                   4    Development Specialis (1), Rural
                                              Development Specialist (1),
                                              Financial Management Specialis,
                                              Procurement Specialist (1)
                                              TTl (1), Agricultural Economist
               7/6/04                    5    (1), Economist (1), Financxial
                                              Management Specialist (1),
                                              Disbursement Assistant (1)

 ICR
                                                                                     U               U



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate




                                               - 34 -

                                       No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                       97
  Supervision                                  181                          307
  ICR                                            12                           40
  Total                                        191                          444
figures prior to 1998 combined with adjustment operation; data on SW not available prior to 2000




                                                  - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
Bank performance in supervision and overall Bank performance are rated marginally satisfactory.
Government and Implementing Agency implementation performance and overall government
performance are rated marginally satisfactory.




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

4.     Project Appraisal Document for a Private Sector Capacity Building Project (No. 17940)
5.     Memorandum of the President on an Interim Country Assistance Strategy of the World
Bank Group for the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire (No. 24168), May 8, 2002.
6.     Bank Mission Supervision Reports and Aide-mémoires (1997-2004).
7.     Audit Reports (Price Waterhouse-Coopers).
8.     Procedures Manual.

9.     Other reports


o      APEX-CI.Assambee Générale Ordinaire. Rapport d'Activités (for 1999,
2000,2001,2002,2003)
o      APEX-C1. Rapport de Fréquentation. Centre d'information Commerciale
o      Cellule Technique de Coordination. Projet de Développement du Secteur Prive. Cadre
Logique (2000-2003)
o      Odje, Badi, Consultant. Revue des Performances Financières, 2004 (analysis of 2004
accounts).
o      Okalla, Jean-Pierre. Etude de Faisabilité et des Modalités de Concession des Activités du
Centre d'Informations Commerciales de l'            APEX-CI




                                             - 38 -

- 39 -

