Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11291-HU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSIONS ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
MARCH 5, 1993
Human Resources Sector Operations Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Forint (Ft)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Forints per US$)
Currency Unit     CY1988    CY1989    CY1990    CY1991    1992       1993
October January
US$1.00 - Ft      50.413    59.066    63.206    74.735    79.0       82.7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CY        -   Calendar Year
DDD       -    Daily Drug Dosage
EC        -    Commission of the European Communities
ECU       -    European Currency Unit
FT        -    Forints
FY        -    Fiscal Year
GDP       -   Gross Domestic Product
GNP       -   Gross National Product
HIF       -   Health Insurance Fund
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
ILO       -    International Labor Organization
ITD       -    Information Technology Division
LCB       -   Local Competitive Bidding
LF        -   Labor Fund
MOF       -   Ministry of Finance
MOW       -   Ministry of Welfare
NBH       -   National Bank of Hungary
OECD      -    Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development
PC        -    Primary Care
PDO       -    Project Development Office
PF        -    Pension Insurance Fund
POM       -    Project Operations Manual
SF        -    Solidarity Fund
SDD       -    Service Delivery Division
SIA       -   National Social Insurance Administration
SOE       -    Statement of Expenditure
TA        -   Technical Assistance
TOR       -   Terms of Reference
WHO       -   World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSIONS ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan  and  Project  Summary    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                   i
I.       INTRODUCTION    .1...            .      .   .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   . .
A.   General/Sector  Background  ...  .                       .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .     .  2
B. Key Issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
C.   Government  Policies  ...  .                    .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  10
D.   Rationale  for  World  Bank  Involvement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    11
E.   Role  of  International  Donor  Community  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12
II. THE PROJECT.. .....................  13
A.    Project  Objectives    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    13
B.    Project  Description  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    13
C.  Environmental Impact  ................  ....  .   18
III.    PROJECT  COSTS.  FINANCING.  MANAGEMENT  AND  IMPLEMENTATION  .  .  .  .  .  .    19
A.    Project  Costs  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    19
B.    Project  Financing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    23
C.    Project  Management  and  Implementation  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    24
D.    Project  Procurement  Arrangements    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    26
E.    Project  Reporting  and  Evaluation    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    30
F.  Status of Preparation ................  ....  .   31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Hungary in July 1992. The
mission comprised Alexander S. Preker (Mission Leader, Health Economist, EC1/2HR), Friedrich Peloschek
(Senior Counsel, LEGEC), Leonardo M. Concepcion (Senior Implementation Specialist, EMTPH), Ilona Szemzo
(Operations Officer, EC1/2HR), Nicholas Barr (Cash Benefit and Health Insurance Specialist, EC1/2HR), and
Khalifa Ikramullah (Information Technology Specialist, ASTIF). Several teams of consultants contributed
substantially to project preparation: Michael Parsons, Lorelle D'Arcy, Chris Farrelley (Health Insurance
Administration); John Deeble, Ken Hazell, Deborah Saltman, Frank Ingemann and Peter Mandrup (Health Care
Financing and Policy); Keith Ogborn and Michel Voirin (Social Insurance); Paul Grimsley, Paul Gunning and
David Pedler (Systems Development); and David Luft and Timothy Paine (Office Automation). Lia Achsien, Ross
Pavis and Sabrina Huffman (EC1/2HR) provided assistance with text processing and copy editing. Task
Manager: Alexander S. Preker (EC1/2HR); Division Chief: Ralph W. Harbision (EC1/2HR); Director: Kemal Dervis
(EC2DR); Peer Reviewers: Xavier Coll (LA3HR); Willy De Geyndt (ASTPH); and William McGreevey (PHRHN).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS..  ...............   32
A. Benefits. .  . ............... 32
B. Risks. . . .............. 32
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Tables
Table 3.1:  PROJECT SUMMARY BY PROJECT COMPONENT  . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Table 3.2:  PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE . . . . . . .  21
Table 3.3:  FINANCING PLAN  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
Table 3.4:  FINANCING REQUIREMENTS BY YEAR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
Table 3.5:  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
Table 3.6:  FINANCING PLAN BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Chart
Chart 3.1:  CHART OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES  . . . . . .  25
Annexes
Annex 1 :  The Hungarian Context ... .  .      .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  .    .   35
Cash Benefits  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .   .   35
Health Care Financing  ... .  .  .  .   .  .  .    ......  .   .   48
Review of Statutory Assets and Liabilities .  .  .  . . . . .  56
Annex 2     OECD Experience .      .       .      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  63
Annex 3     Policy Options  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .   .   75
Annex 4 :  A Pensions Forecasting Model  ... .       .  .  .  .  .    ..... .   .   85
Annex 5:  A Health Care Financing Forecasting Model .   .   .   . . . . . . .  97
Annex 6 :  Detailed Project Cost Estimates .    .    .    . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
Annex 7:  Project Implementation Schedule .    .    .    . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Annex 8:  Project Management Unit and Implementation Arrangements . . . 121
Annex 9:   Organizational Charts ... .  .      .  .  .  .  .    ........  .    .  127
Annex 10:   Project Supervision Plan .      .     .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
Annex 11:   Technical Assistance Schedule .    .    .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131
Annex 12:   Schedule of Disbursements .    .    .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 137
Glossary   of  Terms   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    139
Bibliography of Materials in the Project File . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 143
KAP:  IBRD-23624R



REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSIONS ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
BORROWER:       Republic of Hungary
BENEFICIARY:   National Social Insurance Administration (SIA), Pension
Insurance Fund (PF) and Health Insurance Fund (HIF).
LOAN AMOUNT:   US$132.0 million equivalent
TERMS:          Fifteen years, including a five-year grace period, at the IBRD
standard variable interest rate.
ONLENDINC:      The Borrower will onlend in Forints to the PF and HIF either
at the National Bank of Hungary's prevailing refinancing rate
(base rate) with the Borrower bearing the foreign exchange
risk or at the prevailing Bank lending rate with the PF and
HIF bearing the foreign exchange risk.
PROJCT          The Pensions Administration and Health Insurance Project has
OBJECTIVES:     two main objectives:  (a) to improve the institutional
capacity of the social insurance system to manage its
financial resources more effectively, thereby contributing to
its financial viability; and (b) to enhance the efficiency,
targeting and quality of client services financed through the
social insurance system by modernizing its administrative
infrastructure.
PROJECT         The Project will provide technical assistance, fellowships,
DESCRIPTION:   training, preparation of studies, computer hardware and
software, equipment, teaching materials, limited civil works
and refurbishment of facilities, and incremental recurrent
costs. Special attention will be given to long-term financial
sustainability and efficiency. The Project, which will be
implemented over five years, will consist of the following two
components:
The Management Development and Planning Component (US$24.1
million base cost) will improve the institutional capacity of
the social insurance system to manage its financial resources
more effectively by: (a) providing management support in
implementing major projects needed to upgrade its
administrative infrastructure; (b) developing a detailed
strategic systems plan and introducing needed organizational
changes; (c) strengthening the policy-making, planning and
evaluation capabilities of Hungarian policymakers and
managers; and (d) assisting in the assessment of future
investment strategies.
The Operational Infrastructure Component (US$133.9 million
base cost) will modernize the administrative infrastructure of
the social insurance system by: (a) developing application
software; and (b) introducing computerized data processing,
modern financial management, and efficient communications
systems, as well as an upgraded office environment.



- ii -
BENEFITS:       The Project's ultimate benefit will be to strengthen the
programs and financial viability of the PF and HIF, within the
constraints imposed by tight control over public expenditures.
Administrative modernization will lead to: (a) improved client
services through more efficient benefit payments and
responsiveness to benefit inquiries; and (b) cost savings
through more effective administrative methods and more
efficient policy options than are possible using the current
system of manual recordkeeping. For example, the delays
between client application and benefit payments will be
significantly reduced through on-line access to an eligibility
database and automatic triggering of certain benefits related
to births and deaths. Local Service Offices will improve
client access. In the case of financial management, improved
access to information on individualized contributions records
and eligibility status will tighten control over fraud and
abuse. With outstanding contributions receivables of Ft. 49
billion (US$636 million) in 1991, improving the collection of
contributions and reducing debt by less than 30 percent over
the life of the Project will allow the PF and HIF to repay the
original investment. If just five percent of the likely costs
of pharmaceutical benefits and hospital care can be economized
by reducing waste in their provision, savings in overall
health care expenditures in excess of the total yearly cost of
the Project will be achieved. Such savings could be
redirected to other areas of the health sector. This will
lead to significant cross-benefits for the companion Health
Services and Management Project.
RISKS:          The Project's major risks include: (a) the weak institutional
capacity to implement meaningful reforms; (b) the prospective
creation of new divisions in the context of a broader
restructuring of the administration of the social insurance
system for which the final configuration and timing remains
uncertain; and (c) volatility in the political commitment of
Parliament to introduce cost saving policies. To contain
these risks within prudent limits, the Project includes the
following specific activities. Extensive technical assistance
and twinning arrangements with similar institutions in western
countries will be provided to strengthen project management
capacity and to assist in the detailed design of a strategic
systems plan. The new Information Technology Division and
Service Delivery Division will be structured as much as
possible around existing divisions to mitigate the risk of
creating these new units and to ensure that they are rapidly
made operational. Finally, training and fellowships will be
provided through the Planning Development Unit to strengthen
policy-making, management and evaluation. This will reduce
the risks due to inexperience in operating new services and
foster a positive setting for an ongoing evolution in cost-
saving social insurance policies. The Bank will conduct a
mid-term review of these policies to ensure that they will
have been effective in protecting the financial viability of
the PF and HIF, and that they will not have had adverse spill-
over effects on the state budget.



- iii -
Estimated Project Costs i/
Local   Foreign   Total
-------US$ Million-----
MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING
1.  Project Management                                     0.7       3.6       4.3
2.  Systems Planning and Organization                      2.8       9.1      11.9
3.  Planning Development Unit (PDU)                        0.6       5.3       5.9
4.  Preinvestment Study                                    0.0       2.0       2.0
Subtotal Management Development and Planning           4.1      20.0     24.1
OPERATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE
5.  Application Software                                   3.6      20.2      23.8
6.  Technological Infrastructure                          45.5      64.6    110.1
Subtotal Operational Infrastructure                   49.1      8       133.9
Total Base Costs                                          53.3    104.7    158.0
Physical Contingencies                                     5.0       8.5      13.5
Price Contingencies                                       10.9      18.9      29.8
Total Project Costs                                   69.2    132.0    201.3
Local   Foreign  Total
Financing Plan                                                     --
------US$ Million-----
Government of Hungary                                     69.3        0.0    69.3
World Bank                                                 0.0      132.0   132.0
Total Financing Requirements                          69.3      132.0   201.3
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD FY                           FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98
Annual                             8.0    14.0    27.3    38.5    28.1    16.1
Cumulative                         8.0    22.0    49.3    87.8   115.9   132.0
Cumulative as % of Total            6%      17%      37%     67%      88%    100%
1/ Detailed numbers may not add up to totals because of rounding.
Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$36.4 million.






REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSIONS ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1.     Hungary has been experimenting with economic reform since 1968, but
it was not until a democratic Government was elected in mid-1990 that the
country became fully engaged in introducing a market economy. As a middle-
income country, with an estimated per capita income of US$2,690 in 1991, and a
population of 10.6 million, the country has been a front-runner in the
economic transformation presently taking place in Central and Eastern Europe.
The new Government has launched an ambitious program to secure economic growth
and international competitiveness.
1.2.     The National Social Insurance Administration (SIA), presently
responsible for managing the Pensions Insurance Fund (PF) and Health Insurance
Fund (HIF), faces difficult challenges during the transition to a market
economy. Social insurance contributions amount to more than 37.5 percent of
gross wages, which is higher than in most industrial countries and acts to
depress the demand for labor while increasing its cost. The impact on
macroeconomic efficiency and competitiveness deserves special attention at a
time when the country is facing major industrial restructuring, and needs both
to improve its external payments position and to deal with unprecedented
levels of unemployment. Since data on individual contributions are often
lacking, it is impossible to bring about a closer relationship between
contributions and benefits. Many benefits are generous by western standards
while others fail to address poverty or to provide adequate income smoothing.
Early retirement is widespread. Sick pay, and other short-term benefits and
allowances, are poorly targeted. The absence of a broad-ranging system of
social assistance (income-tested benefits of last resort) is a major gap in
the social safety net. The organizational structure of the social insurance
system is outmoded, and its management and service delivery system fragmented.
The existing antiquated administrative infrastructure is inefficient, making
it impossible to introduce much-needed cost-saving policies.
1.3.     The Government is now trying to restructure the social insurance
system in an attempt to respond to these challenges. Two closely linked
projects, this Pensions Administration and Health Insurance Project and a
related Health Services and Management Project, will support strategic
investments required to put those institutional reforms into practice, thereby
adapting the social insurance system and health sector to a market economy.



A. General/Sector Background
1.4.     The previous socialist economy was guided by the false premise that
state-owned capital can be allocated efficiently to achieve high output growth
with full employment and price stability. Essential commodities were made
available at relatively low fixed prices, coupled with a flat wage
distribution, to ensure income and welfare equality. The distinction between
wages and cash benefits was blurred. Wage levels were determined
administratively rather than by market forces, and workers' pay packets
contained not only wages and various bonuses, but also transfer payments like
the family allowance. Provisions for youth dependency and maternity were made
through free access to health care, education, and maternal and family
allowances; individuals were also protected, through their employment history,
from income loss due to accidents and old age.
1.5.     Populations were given a high degree of collective security through a
system of more-or-less guaranteed full employment. The postulated absence of
poverty and unemployment obviated the need for social assistance and
unemployment compensation. The state and employer were made fully responsible
for individual security, with essentially all income support programs and many
health services being administered and distributed at the workplace under the
assumption that most adults were wage earners. The source of financing for
these benefits consisted of combined general revenue and payroll taxes
channeled through the state budget. Some earmarked funds were retained by
employers to pay for amenities such as health spas and sanatoria.
1.6.     Collapse of the centrally planned command economy has necessitated a
restructuring of the prevailing framework for financing income support
programs and health services. The characteristics of the Hungarian social
insurance system are summarized below under two headings: (a) Financing and
Expenditure on Cash Benefits and Health Services; and (b) Administration of
Social Insurance.l/
Financing and Expenditure on Cash Benefits and Health Services
1.7.      Contributions and Entitlement.  Compulsory social insurance, in the
form of earmarked payroll-based contributions, is used to finance most income
support programs and health services. At the end of 1988, splintered
contributions, highly differentiated by occupation, were replaced by a unified
payroll-based contribution of 37.5 percent of the gross wage bill.2. The
rationale that contributions or premia should be paid by, and/or on behalf of,
v/ Family allowance, unemployment benefits and social assistance are not financed through social
insurance but are described briefly to give the reader an overview of the income transfer system in
Hungary. The IBRD, Hunxary - The Transition to a Market Economy: Critical Human Resources Issues,
Report No. 8665-HU, August 6, 1990, deals with issues relating to unemployment. Social assistance and
local social services will be dealt with through projects supported by other donor agencies.
A methodology comparable with reporting in OECD countries has been used to arrive at this figure: 44
percent hidden contribution from employers; 10 percent contribution from employees; and total
contributions - (44+10)/144 - 37.5 percent. See para. 3 in Annex 1 for a more detailed explanation.



-3-
those who ultimately get protection against the risks of old age,
unemployment, sickness and childbearing is consistent with Western European
experience.2/
1.8.     Entitlement to pensions, benefits and many allowances is broad with
near universal coverage. In 1992, the Government revoked entitlement to
health care as a citizen's right, making eligibility conditional on actual or
deemed contributions to the HIF. Contributions records are employer-based,
making personal identification and enforcement of such eligibility
operationally impossible. Access to health services, therefore, remains
universal, open to considerable cross-border flows from neighboring countries
and populations within Hungary that do not contribute.
1.9.     Cash Benefits.4/  In 1990, total expenditure on income transfers
was 16.4 percent of GDP. This is high by both Western and Eastern European
standards. Among the cash benefits that are financed through social
insurance, long-term benefits, such as pensions, are the fastest growing
public expenditure item (10 percent of GDP in 1990). The legal pensionable
age is 60 (55 for women), but in fact, a significant number of individuals
receive a pension earlier, and often continue to work full-time with little or
no loss of pension. Similarly, recipients of invalidity pensions, may combine
continuing work with receipt of benefits. The level of compensated sick days
per insured individual is one of the highest in Europe, averaging 29 per year,
increasing from 0.9 to 1.3 percent of GDP from 1960 to 1990. Employers pay
for the first ten days of each illness (the remaining sick leave of up to one
year is financed through the social insurance system). Combined expenditure
on pregnancy, maternity and child care benefits was one percent of GDP for
1990.
1.10.    Unemployment has been rising during the transition to a market
economy in all former Central and Eastern European countries. In Hungary, it
was 1.5 percent for an active labor force of 4.9 million in 1989, 4 percent in
1990, and 7 percent in 1991. Unemployment benefits are financed though
payroll taxes with a small state budget contribution. Total expenditure on
unemployment benefits was less than 1 percent of GDP in 1990. As in most OECD
countries, family allowance and social assistance are financed through the
state budget, not social insurance. Expenditure on family allowance was
1.9 percent of GDP in 1990. Although expenditure on social assistance was
negligible in the past, increases in the number of beneficiaries as
unemployment benefits expire will put great pressure on programs designed to
provide such assistance in the near future.
1.11.    Health Services.  Total health care expenditure amounted to
5.6 percent of GDP in 1990 (public, private, capital and recurrent
expenditure). This is comparable to the level of expenditure in other
.  Only a few western countries (notably Australia and New Zealand) rely entirely on general revenue for
income support.
/ See Annex 1 for a more detailed discussion on cash benefits and health care financing in Hungary,
Annex 2 for a review of the OECD experience, and Annex 3 for major policy options.



countries with a similar national income, but lower in absolute terms than in
most western countries (US$164 per capita in 1990). Health care expenditure
has been increasing steadily over the past decade in Hungary, even throughout
the recent period of economic recession.
1.12.    Financing for recurrent expenditures of most personal health services
(doctors, hospitals and clinics) and pharmaceutical benefits is provided
through transfer payments from the HIF to local governments which are
responsible for ownership of most health services. Health care institutions
still receive a historically determined budget, although they will soon be
reimbursed on a performance-related case-mix basis. Doctors and other health
care professionals are salaried employees of central and local health care
institutions, but as of this year, general practitioners are reimbursed on a
performance-related capitation basis. Official user charges are not used
extensively except in the case of copayments for pharmaceutical products.
Informal gratuities or the use of under-the-table payments for preferential
treatment are, however, widespread throughout all levels of the health sector.
1.13.    Major capital investments are financed through the state budget.  In
addition, local governments have limited authority to raise funds for special
projects by taxing residents and industries since 1985. Although private
practice has been permitted since 1989, ownership of most health care
facilities remains public.
Administration of Social Insurance
1.14.    Organization.  The administration of income transfers and health
services is becoming increasingly complicated and fragmented. The social
insurance system itself is currently organized into a complex network of
institutions comprising: (a) a Head Office in Budapest; (b) 19 County
Directorates; (c) 15 Local Service Offices; and (d) Pay Offices in
enterprises. The Directorates of Budapest and Pest Counties alone have 3
million registered insured individuals, 3,000 Pay Offices and two branch
offices.5/ Pensions are generally paid in cash through the postal system.
Short-term benefits are still administered by enterprises and paid as part of
individual pay packets, although there are plans to expand the number of local
Service Offices for this purpose. The Ministry of Labor (MOL) has Labor and
Employment Offices to administer the benefits of the Labor Fund (LF) and
labor-related training programs. Local governments are in the process of
establishing Local Welfare Offices to administer social assistance and provide
personal social services such as counselling. Local governments also
administer the health services that are financed through the HIF. This
splintering of services is inconvenient for beneficiaries and leads to
duplication and inefficiency in administrative overhead.
/ See Organization Charts in Annex 9 for a schematic representation of the Hungarian social insurance
system.



B. Key Issues
1.15.    With a current budget deficit projected at eight percent this year,
progress made so far in economic recovery could easily be jeopardized by
additional public expenditure on income transfers and health services. At the
same time, the transition to a market economy has been accompanied by
important social costs of adjustment. Price liberalization and subsidy
reduction have led to rising prices (40 percent inflation in 1991) and falling
real wages (10-15 percent over the course of 1991). Privatization has led to
a widening wage distribution and, with commercialization of some state-owned
enterprises, to rising unemployment, as firms shed labor to become more
efficient and to avoid bankruptcy (seven percent unemployment in 1991).
Reduced output of state enterprises and a slowing-down in the economic
activities of the state have led to reductions in public sector revenues,
making it impossible for the Government to maintain many previous programs.
The demands on the social safety net are increasing sharply at precisely the
time when resources are most scarce.
1.16.    Key issues relating to the existing social insurance system, that
will be addressed by the Pensions Administration and Health Insurance Project,
are summarized below, under two headings: (a) Ineffective Social Policy,
Structure, Function, and Management; and (b) Inefficient and Antiquated
Administrative Infrastructures.
Ineffective Social Policy. Function and Management
1.17.    Social Policy.  Major policy issues arise in relation to: (a) the
division of responsibility between workers, employers and the state for the
financing of cash benefits and health services; (b) protection against poverty
and income smoothing in the provision of cash benefits; and (c) incentive
structures in health care financing.
1.18.    The Government has yet to find an optimal balance between compulsory
payroll-based contributions and general tax revenue in financing many public
programs. It needs to decide who should contribute and how much they should
pay. Presently, employee/employer contributions are used to cover the cost of
benefits for many non-contributing beneficiaries and non-insurable risks.
This makes total contribution rates unusually high by western standards which
could compromise the long-term financial viability of the PF and HIF. High
contribution rates inflate the cost of labor and threaten international
competitiveness. At the same time, the balance in contributions between
workers and employers is heavily distorted in favor of workers (ratio of 1:4).
Workers face neither a warning signal about the real costs of social insurance
benefits and health services nor are they presented any incentive to moderate
their claims for benefits. The growing dependence of many households on
income support programs is a sign of the already significantly reduced work
incentives.
1.19.    Although extensive and costly, the cash benefit system provides poor
protection against poverty and inadequate income smoothing. Pensions are too
low, offered to too many, and begun too early. Their effectiveness in



- 6 -
maintaining minimum living standards for the elderly is decreasing. Early
retirement is widespread and costly, and the number of disability pensioners
is high by western standards. There is no systematic relation between
previous earnings, length of service, and the pension at the time it is first
awarded. The lack of indexation in earlier years means that the oldest
pensioners have the lowest real pension. Sick pay is equally fraught with the
following problems: (a) the short duration of sick leave for which employers
are responsible provides no incentive to encourage workers to stay on the job;
(b) the uniform social insurance contributions paid by enterprises do not
permit a risk rating for those with a high sick leave record; and (c) the lack
of sufficient rehabilitation and retraining programs contributes to long-term
disability. Similar issues relating to poor targeting and adverse incentives
apply to other cash benefits.
1.20.    When health care financing was transferred from the state budget to
contributory health insurance in 1990, the administration had little time or
opportunity to develop the necessary administrative mechanisms, procedures and
infrastructure to deal effectively with this new responsibility. State
ownership provided few incentives for health care providers to take a personal
interest in maintaining a high quality of physical assets. There were few
financial incentives for local governments to focus health services on
prevention and primary care rather than more expensive hospital care. As a
result, the work habits of managers and health care providers did not focus on
effective interventions, efficiency or quality of care. Today there are no
formal deterrents to prevent patients from using services needlessly. Doctors
on salary have few incentives to deal with complex problems themselves, and
are easily tempted to minimize their work load by referring patients to higher
levels of care. Likewise, directors of hospitals have a strong incentive to
encourage referrals of difficult cases to higher levels of care -- the less
work, the less strain on their historical global budgets. Salaries of most
health care workers are at the bottom of the list for the public sector. As a
result of these and other negative incentives, there are often queues and
waiting lists, with statistics indicating that the number of visits and beds
per capita are high by European standards. The SIA needs to develop a
capacity to implement recommended policies and laws effectively and
efficiently.
1.21.    Function.  The social insurance system has three main functions:
collection of contributions, payment of pensions and of other benefits, and
reimbursement of health care providers.£./ The present administration is not
structured along these functional lines and is unprepared to meet future legal
requirements for the social insurance system.
1.22.    The Head Office of the administration has three main branches
responsible for varied and often unrelated functions that include: a legal
branch, an economic branch, and a health care branch. The legal branch is
responsible for legal affairs, internal audits and information technology.
The economic branch is responsible for economic analysis, finance, investments
and statistics. The health care branch is responsible for resource
6/  See Annex 9 for an organizational chart of the SIA.



7-
allocation, pharmaceuticals and medical supplies. Attached directly to the
Office of the Director General, there is a secretariat, employee
relations/training division, press and media office, international affairs
division, internal controller and medical advisor. There is no central
Service Delivery Division or Information Technology Division. Most service
delivery is the responsibility of County Directorates, Local Service Offices
and Pay Offices in enterprises. County Directorates are, however, not
organized to provide maximum customer service and often operate in isolation
from the Head Officje. These problems lead to poor lines of responsibility and
accountability as well as inefficiency and low quality services.
1.23.    Management.  Major issues arise with respect to:  (a) the lack of a
clear business plan for the administration of the PF and HIF; (b) ineffective
collection of contributions; (c) poor quality of client services for payment
of cash benefits and reimbursing health care providers; and (d) the inadequate
financial management techniques. There is a lack of quality information and
reliable reporting between the Head Office and County Directorates, with no
formal review or reports.
1.24.    Business Plan.  As the administrative head of the social insurance
system, the SIA faces significant challenges. It presently has no detailed
business plan to: (a) respond to a redefinition of its mission under the new
legal framework for the social insurance system; (b) address key
organizational issues; (c) define new business processes; (d) identify skills
and optimize the use of its human resources; (e) define and meet strategic
objectives; and (f) develop key performance indicators. Due to a lack of
close collaboration with policymakers during the development, consolidation
and implementation of new legislation, the SIA and County Directorates spend a
great deal of time interpreting the intent of the new laws instead of rapidly
implementing them.
1.25.    Collection of Contributions.  Great difficulty is currently
experienced in collecting contributions from employers and individuals. Even
when contributions are deducted from the individual's pay, employers are often
delinquent in remitting them to the SIA. In the case of self-employed
individuals, it is administratively difficult to determine who should be
making payments and, therefore, almost impossible to control their
contribution liability.
1.26.    As a result of these and other problems, contributions in arrears
increased from Ft 21 billion in December 1990 to Ft 49 billion in December
1991. This contributed significantly to the SIA's cash deficit last year.
Over 50 percent of companies are remitting contributions after the due date.
The state owned Hungarian Railways (MAV) is a noteworthy delinquent account.
It accounted for 19 percent of outstanding contributions in 1991. Steps taken
so far to recover overdue contributions and develop policies and procedures to
maximize receivables collection have been inadequate. The following factors
contribute to these problems: (a) lack of a nationwide network of dedicated
collection departments; (b) outdated procedures to deal with bankruptcies,
debt rescheduling, identification of high risk contributors, and acceptance of
non-cash settlements; (c) weak authority at the County Directorate level to



- 8 -
settle claims; (d) poor targeting of accounts in arrears that are most likely
to make contributions; and (e) lack of a central database and poor
communication flow between the head office and regions.
1.27.    The financial viability of the PF and HIF depends on the development
of more effective means of collecting contributions and recording details at
the individual level. In this context, the advantages of linking payroll-
based contributions to benefits far outweigh any additional administrative
costs that it may entail.
1.28.    Payment of Cash Benefits and Reimbursing Health Care Providers.  Many
of the observed problems in delivery of cash benefits are due to inadequate
administrative policies and procedures such as: slow and costly payment of
benefits by post; poor handling of general inquiries and complaints; and poor
quality customer services.
1.29.    Introduction in the near future of sophisticated performance-based
reimbursement of health care providers will stretch the administrative
capacity of the social insurance system to the limit. Case-mix determined
budgets for hospitals will require detailed analysis of demography, morbidity,
socioeconomic factors, existing health care resources, cross-boundary flows,
and market forces. Data generated through existing admission/discharge and
accounting information systems need considerable refinement before they can be
used to determine budgets. The new method for administering the reimbursement
of primary care doctors on a capitation basis can, at best, be viewed as a
stop-gap measure since is does not include mechanisms to ensure that doctors'
lists are accurate. Finally, at the present time it is impossible to collect
data relating to prescribing practices of physicians or patient utilization
patterns when processing claims for pharmaceutical benefits. This leads to
the provision of substantial subsidies being paid for persons who are
ineligible for these benefits.
1.30.    Experience in OECD countries shows that all income transfer and
health insurance programs involving the disbursement of substantial amounts of
public money are subject to both systematic and casual abuse and fraud. At
present, the administration has no fraud and abuse division to deal with this
problem, or effective policies and procedures to monitor, evaluate and impose
sanctions when necessary.
1.31.    Financial Management.  The following overlaps and gaps exist in the
finance functions of the Head Office and the County Directorates: (a) at the
Head Office these functions include asset management, investments, liquidity
and accounting; and (b) at the County Directorate level they include
contributions collection, cash management, bookkeeping, budgeting, payroll
functions and benefit payments. The County Directorates have little
involvement in the functional budget process. Methods currently used to
estimate future financing requirements are inadequate given that: (a) there
are no policies or procedures for making projections; (b) projections are made
on an irregular basis; (c) assumptions such as employment rates and future
benefit schedules are often incomplete; (d) there are no full actuarial



-9-
reviews; and (e) past forecasts have been incorrect (for example, a balanced
budget was forecast for 1991 compared with the actual Ft 22 billion deficit).
1.32.    Although they are in possession of significant assets (Ft 300
billion), the PF and HIF have no formal policies, procedures and financial
controls for cash and investment management activities. There are no
risk/return analyses for investments. There are duplications, gaps and poor
information flows between the Investment, Liquidity and Economics Departments
with no reporting or formal communication. Cash flow forecasting models are
not used. As a result, term deposits are sometimes drawn upon before their
maturity dates to meet short-term payment requirements.
1.33.    Finally, the Investment Department has no performance reporting.
There is more than one Internal Audit and Internal Control Department. At the
Head Office, the Internal Control Department reports to the Director General,
while the Internal Audit Department is responsible for visiting County
Directorates. The Internal Audit Department reports to the head of the Legal
Department which reduces its autonomy. This is operationally inefficient and
lacks focus.
Inefficient Administrative Infrastructure
1.34.    The administrative infrastructure of the social insurance system is
old-fashioned, inefficient and provides poor client services: records are
manual, office equipment antiquated (inadequate telecommunications systems,
photocopiers, facsimile machines and word processors) and the accounting
system still relies on single entry cash accounting. The administration has
no management information system (MIS) to assist it in day-to-day tasks.
Information technology initiatives at the County Directorate level, with
little coordination from the SIA, are already leading to major compatibility
and data capacity problems. There is no central masterfile of customer or
operational data available in the regions. Contributions processing is
performed using floppy diskettes from the counties, taking up to two months.
The cumbersome nature of the existing administrative systems precludes
introduction of many cost-saving policy options.
1.35.    The lack of reliable information about individual contribution
records and lack of an efficient way to identify individuals makes it
impossible to bring about a closer link between individual eligibility and
cash benefits. In the case of health care financing, it allows free-riding by
non-contributors and residents from neighboring countries, many of whose
benefits are less generous than in Hungary. With estimates of Hungarian
border populations of more than 3 million, the impact of cross-border flows is
potentially significant. Action is urgently required, both in policy design,
and in developing the administrative capacity to improve targeting, incentives
and efficiency to avoid a major cost explosion in many of these areas.
1.36.    The division of responsibility for financing and delivery of social
insurance benefits between a PF and a HIF created two additional potential
administrative problems. First, for reasons of clarity, administrative ease,
and to facilitate applications and enquiries regarding benefits, the
administration of income transfers needs to be coordinated as much as



- 10 -
possible, so that citizens can claim their entitlement to pensions, benefits
and allowances from a single office. Second, during the present fiscal crisis
and the current need for additional financial resources to shore up the social
safety net, significant and unnecessary outlays on overlapping administrative
structures are hard to justify. There may be a case for coordinating health-
related income transfers jointly with the cost of medical care, but the
failure of this mechanism to control expenditure on short-term benefits and
allowances in other European countries counters this as an argument for
introducing separate administrative infrastructures, especially when it leads
to costly duplications in overhead.
C. Government Policies
1.37.    Responding to these challenges, the Government has already begun to
restructure and strengthen the social insurance system. It has taken firm
steps to introduce reforms that will change the division of responsibility
between the state, the individual and enterprises, thereby reducing the role
of the state budget in financing pensions and benefits provided through health
insurance. Through development of competitive private markets (price, wage
and trade liberalization) and privatization of assets, it has achieved a
significant reduction in the role of the state (deregulation of many spheres
of the economy and reduction in the state budget by six percent of GDP, with a
target to reduce subsidies to no more than four percent of GDP by 1993).
These economic reforms and other policies aiming to improve the efficiency of
the private sector are allowing the Government to focus on areas of clear-cut
market failure and poverty relief.
1.38.    In support of the Government's economic reform program, and to adapt
the social insurance system to meet the needs of a market economy, the Social
Insurance Act of 1988 removed many core programs from the state budget and
placed them under the responsibility of the SIA (old-age, survivors' and
disability pensions, sick pay, maternity and child care, pharmaceuticals and
family allowance). Family allowance has since been passed back to the state
budget; maternity benefits may be transferred in the near future. The
Ministry of Labor (MOL) created a Solidarity Fund (SF) and Labor Fund (LF) to
finance, respectively, unemployment compensation and other labor programs.
Although they received small equalization transfer payments from the state
budget through the Ministry of Welfare (MOW), local governments became largely
responsible for financing social assistance. In early 1990, financing for
health services and pharmaceutical benefits was brought into the consolidated
SIF.
1.39.    Continuing this process, a Law on the Management of Social Insurance
at the Local Self-Government Level (LAW 84) was passed in late 1991. This Law
split the formerly consolidated SIF into a PF and HIF.7/ According to the
7/  In Hungary, like many continental European countries, the HIF is responsible for financing both health
services and short-term cash benefits such as sick pay, disability pensions and maternal benefits.
Long-term cash benefits (pensions) are financed through the Pensions Fund.



- 11 -
provisions of the Law, two Supervisory Committees were appointed by Parliament
to oversee each of the two Funds, responsibility having been removed from the
previous authority of the MOW. Later in 1993, the two Supervisory Committees
will be replaced by Self-Governing Boards of 60 elected members (representing
employer and employee interests), each with a General Assembly and Presidium;
and the SIA will be restructured into two distinct administrations, a Pensions
Administration and Health Insurance Pay Office, each with independent and
separate responsibilities, as well as separate general directors. The
proposed administrative reforms aim to avoid wasteful duplications in
administrative infrastructures by creating a Service and Executive
Organization (SEO), operated by the two Funds. The SEO will be comprised of a
Service Section, Financial Section and Information Technology Section
responsible for joint activities such as client services, eligibility
determination, collection of contributions, and operating computer networks.
D. Rationale for World Bank Involvement
1.40.    Bank support for the proposed reforms in the social insurance system
is justified for four reasons. First, unnecessary and indiscriminate spending
on pensions, benefits and allowances, and health care would jeopardize fiscal
stability. Second, social insurance contributions must be contained in order
to keep the rising cost of labor from threatening economic growth and
international competitiveness. Third, continued poor economic growth, as a
consequence of the failure to address the two preceding issues, would lead to
ever more restrictive public sector budgets. This would further diminish
resources for programs designed to protect vulnerable populations against
poverty and illness, thereby imposing additional productivity losses, rather
than stimulating the efficiency gains needed to sustain recovery and growth.
Finally, although the underlying policy reforms are not yet fully developed,
modernization of the administrative infrastructure of the social insurance
system is a necessary condition for achieving the Government's objective of a
successful transition to a market economy.a/
1.41.    For these reasons the Government now proposes: (a) to address the
consequences of a widening income distribution by improving the targeting of
cash benefits, so as to protect vulnerable populations against poverty without
squandering resources on those not so threatened; (b) to improve efficiency in
the social insurance system and introduce new incentive structures; (c) to
control expenditure and increase productivity of the health sector in order to
meet growing demands without exacerbating the fiscal crisis; and (d) to
increase the institutional capacity of the social insurance system to
implement more sophisticated targeting strategies and to administer benefit
programs of increased complexity.
t.,/ IBRD, Hungary - Reform and Decentralization of the Public Sector, Volumes 1 and 2, Report No. 10061-
HU, January 30, 1992; IBRD, Hungarv - Reform of the Social Policy and Distribution System, July 17,
1991; IMF, Social Security Reform in Hunzary, Prepared by G. Kopits, R. Holzmann, G. Schieber, end E.
Sidgwick, October 12, 1990; IBRD, Hungary - The Transition to a Market Economy: Critical Human
Resources Issues, Report No 8665-HU, August 6, 1990; and IBRD, Hunnary - Housing Policy Reform in
HunAary, Report No. 9031-HU, November 1990. The Hungary Human Resources Project (Loan 3313-HU) deals
with the education sector and unemployment services. The First Financial System Modernization Project
(Loan 3341-HU) deals with the banking system.



- 12 -
1.42.    The desired policy and management reforms cannot be completed without
correcting the most pressing operational deficiencies. During the current
period of economic crisis, however, public sector investments, and especially
those investments with a high foreign exchange content, have long been reduced
to a level below that which is required even for maintaining the existing
capital stock. As a result, actions such as the installation of computer
facilities, construction of a new headquarters and improving the targeting of
cash benefits, that have been initiated by the Government to modernize the
administration of the social insurance system and to bring the policy
development process to fruition, remain largely incomplete. In this context,
a World Bank loan will allow the Government to continue its efforts to make
the social insurance system a contributing, rather than an impeding, factor in
the successful transition to a market economy.
E. Role of International Donor Community
1.43.    Grant Facilities.  As agreed with the Government in 1991, proceeds
from the World Bank loan will be reserved for strategic and capital intensive
investments that have a foreign currency requirements beyond the resources
that have been secured through the international donor community. Several
grant facilities have played a critical role during project preparation.
Japanese Grant Funds were requested through the World Bank and approved in
December 1991 for the preparation of the Project. The US$1.1 million facility
has substantially covered fees and expenses for consultants' services required
to prepare the Project proposal.%/ The following other international donors
also provided financing for technical assistance during project preparation:
American Government, British Trust Fund, Canadian Government, Danish
Government, Dutch Government, and French Government.  Appreciation is
expressed to the following agencies for releasing staff to provide technical
assistance during project preparation: Australian Health Insurance
Commission, Australian Department of Social Security, Australian Department of
Health, Danish Health Board, Finnish Ministry of Social Welfare, George
Washington University, Harvard University, London School of Hygiene and
Tropical Medicine, University of Minnesota, University of Montreal, Urgences
Sante, and US Center for Disease Control.
9/  Technical assistance during project preparation war provided by well-known social security agencies,
computer technology firms, and professional accounting firms, as well aa a variety of individual
consultants.



13 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
2.1      The Pensions Administration and Health Insurance Project has two main
objectives: (a) to improve the institutional capacity of the social insurance
system to manage its financial resources more effectively, thereby
contributing to its financial viability; and (b) to enhance the efficiency,
targeting and quality of client services financed through the social insurance
system by modernizing its administrative infrastructure.
B. Proiect Description
2.2      The Project will provide technical assistance, fellowships, training,
preparation of studies, computer hardware and software, equipment, teaching
materials, limited civil works and refurbishment of facilities, and
incremental recurrent costs (US$158 million equivalent base cost; US$201.3
million equivalent including contingencies, taxes and duties). The project
will be implemented over a period of five years by an Implementing
Agency,JQ/ County Directorates and local Service Offices. Special
attention will be given to issues of long-term financial sustainability and
efficiency.
2.3      The proposed Project consists of the following two components: 1V/
(a)   The Management Develooment and Planning ComRonent (US$24.1
million base cost) will comprise the following four
subcomponents:
(i)    Project Management
(ii)    Systems Planning and Organization
(iii)   Planning Development Unit
(iv)    Preinvestment Study
(b)   The Operational Infrastructure Component (US$133.9 million
base cost) will comprise the following two subcomponents:
(i)    Application Software
(ii)    Technology Infrastructure
2.4      Recognizing that widespread systemic change is a long-term process,
the Pensions Administration and Health Insurance Project will be the first of
a phased series of investments needed to reform the social insurance system.
J   The current SIA or the legal entity that will be established by the two Funds to perform joint
functions such an common service delivery, financial manageont and information technology.
11 Estimated project costs in this chapter are provided without physical or price contingencies.
Detailed numbers may not add to totals because of rounding.



- 14 -
Two aspects of the project's design are especially noteworthy in this respect.
First, preparation of the detailed cost tables that are presented in the
Annexes was made possible by the availability of a Japan Grant facility. As
in the case of the companion HSMP, these tables reflect an advanced stage of
project preparation rather than an excessive level of complexity of the
project design itself. In fact, where possible, activities have been
postponed for future investments, and it would have been difficult to prune
the current operation further without jeopardizing the overall objectives of
the Project. There are only a few institutions involved, and the activities
that have been included, although they require a great deal of technical
assistance, have been limited to core activities modeled on the experience of
other countries with similar social insurance systems.   The remaining
technical complexity has to be accepted as part of the cost of doing business
in the human resources sectors. Second, although the Project focusses mainly
on critically needed administrative reforms, without which it will be
impossible for Hungary to introduce a more effective and efficient social
insurance system (see Annexes 1 to 4), the Planning Development Unit will
assist the PF and HIF in developing new policy strategies, and the
Preinvestment Study will assist them in preparing for the next phase of
investments. The key policy covenants are, therefore, linked to these smaller
but critical subcomponents of the Project.
Management Development and Planning
2.5      This component will improve the institutional capacity of the social
insurance system to manage its financial resources more effectively by: (a)
providing management support in implementing major projects needed to upgrade
its administrative infrastructure; (b) developing a detailed strategic systems
plan and introducing needed organizational changes; (c) strengthening the
policy-making, planning and evaluation capabilities of Hungarian policy-makers
and managers; and (d) assisting in the assessment of future investment
strategies. The design of each subcomponent includes training for staff that
will operate the new information systems.
2.6      Project Management (US$4.3 million base cost).  This subcomponent
will strengthen the management capacity of the Project Management Unit (PMU).
During the early phases of implementation, project management consultants will
expose the PMU to modern project management techniques: controlling critical
paths, monitoring resource utilization, overseeing day-to-day operations,
evaluating progress, resolving bottlenecks, preparing periodic progress
reports and ensuring the timely execution of tasks. Consultants will provide
support to PMU staff in the following areas: (a) ensuring that funds (loans,
grants, parallel financing and local counterpart funds), resources (human,
physical and information), and management support are made available to the
Project when required through appropriate budgeting and planning; (b) managing
special accounts established for the Project; (c) processing and/or expediting
loan/grant fund draw-downs and withdrawal applications; (d) consolidating and
preparing progress and evaluation reports, financial records, statements of
expenditure, and audits for the Project; (e) coordinating implementation of
various activities to ensure that project objectives are met, and that the
required actions are executed in an efficient and timely manner in accordance
with the planned project implementation schedule; and (f) undertaking



- 15 -
procurement of consultant services, goods and civil works in an effort to
standardize processes and benefit from economies of scale through bulk
procurement. By the end of the Project, Hungarian managers will have fully
learned the skills of project management. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that PF, HIF and the Implementing Agency shall carry on their
operations and conduct their affairs in accordance with sound administrative
and financial practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. For loan
effectiveness, the Bank will require that the Implementing Agency has signed a
contract to employ a management consultant firm to support the PMU in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement.
2.7      The Project will provide technical assistance (231 staff-months),
fellowships (10 staff-months) and training until the necessary transfer of
expertise had occurred, making it possible to slowly withdraw the intensive
support provided during the early phases of project implementation. In
addition, the Project will provide the necessary hardware, software and
equipment for the PMU to operate effectively.
2.8      Systems Planning and Organization (USSll.9 million base cost).  This
subcomponent will assist in: (a) refining the details of the existing
Strategic Systems Plan and providing system integration control throughout the
life of the Project; (b) introducing organizational changes aimed at providing
an appropriate systems development and operational infrastructure; and
(c) designing the procurement packages for the major goods and services
required to implement the Project, preparing tender documents, evaluating
responses, and selecting the successful candidates. During the first phase of
project implementation, a detailed high-level Strategic Systems Plan will be
developed to: (a) refine the definition of the applications software
portfolio; (b) determine the hardware, communications and proprietary software
platforms to be adopted; and (c) specify interim procedures that will allow
the Implementing Agency to continue fulfilling its statutory obligations. A
systems integrator will be provided to assist Hungarian developers in taking
control of systems integration and to ensure that all information technology
activities conform to the strategy specified in the detailed Strategic Systems
Plan and systems standards adopted in the future. An Information Technology
Division (ITD) will be created by unifying and reorganizing the management of
existing computing capacity and applications software development groups which
are presently fragmented. A Service Delivery Division (SDD) will be created
to ensure that the Implementing Agency becomes more service oriented in
dealing with a new type of client who will demand satisfaction in return for
their contributions. Finally, the subcomponent will assist the PMU in
designing and evaluating detailed tender documents and technical assistance
(TA) packages.
2.9      The Project will provide technical assistance (764 staff-months),
fellowships (208 staff-months) and training to develop the above activities.
The Project will provide the necessary hardware, software, equipment and civil
works under the Operational Infrastructure component.



- 16 -
2.10     Planning Development Unit (USS5.9 million).  This subcomponent will
support an ongoing evolution in social and health policy through strengthening
the Planning Development Unit (PDU). The Project will assist the PF and HIF
in designing medium- to long-term policy strategies and in developing
administrative mechanisms: (a) to improve targeting of pensions and health
insurance benefits, and to minimize adverse labor incentives; (b) to assist
the PF and HIF in avoiding the need for further increases in the
employer/employee contribution rate which will have a negative effect on labor
costs and Hungary's international competitiveness; and (c) to secure the
financial autonomy of the two Funds and to prevent future spill-over effects
on the state budget. The subcomponent will assist the two Funds in improving
intersectorial coordination of various cash benefits (unemployment, social
assistance and social insurance benefits), and health financing (national
health insurance, supplemental insurance and out-of-pocket payments). It will
provide the technical assistance necessary to support the proposed
administrative restructuring of the social insurance system and the creation
of an SOE to perform joint activities for the two Funds in the future. In
particular, it will assist the HIF in developing new policies and
administrative mechanisms to improve the incentive structure in health service
resource utilization through further development and refinement of
performance-related: (a) capitation payments for primary care doctors;
(b) specialist contracting; and (c) hospital reimbursements. It will also
improve the tracking and control of pharmaceutical benefits. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that during execution of the project,
PF and HIF shall not increase the total combined employer/employee
contribution rate and shall ensure that transfers obtained from the Borrower's
budget would be made exclusively to cover: (i) non-insurable risks;
(ii) payment to non-contributing recipients of cash benefits; and (iii) other
specified non-contributing categories. Assurances were also obtained that:
PF, HIF and the Implementing Agency shall improve the ratio (in percent) of
aggregate accounts receivables in arrears of PF and HIF, net of:
(i) accumulated interest and fines on overdue accounts receivables;
(ii) receivables in arrears due from enterprises under bankruptcy or
liquidation procedures; and (iii) payment obligations of enterprises under
separate settlements, and the contributions having fallen due to PF and HIF
during the ongoing year, compared with such ratio at the end of the previous
year, by at least: 4 percent as of December 31, 1995; 6 percent as of December
31. 1966; 8 percent as of December 31, 1997; and 10 percent as of December 31,
1998.
2.11     The Project will provide fellowships (123 staff-months) and TA in
discrete development packages to assist policy formulation in these areas, and
to monitor the effects of current and future changes during the course of
project implementation. The Project will also provide the necessary software,
hardware, equipment and teaching materials to run the unit.
2.12     Preinvestment Study (USS2.0 million base cost).  Under this
subcomponent, a preinvestment study will be carried out in preparation for an
eventual second phase of modernization of the social insurance system,
including health care financing.



- 17 -
Operational Infrastructure
2.13     This component of the Project will modernize the administrative
infrastructure of the social insurance system by: (a) developing application
software; and (b) introducing computerized data processing, modern financial
management, and efficient communications systems, as well as an upgraded
office environment.
2.14     Application Software (US$23.8 million base cost).  This subcomponent
will allow the Implementing Agency to acquire or, where appropriate, to
develop sophisticated application software systems to process large volumes of
transactions required to operate modern pensions and health insurance schemes
effectively and efficiently. The Project will lead to automation of the
following major areas of activity within the pensions and health insurance
system: (a) personal identification and eligibility recording (interfacing
with the National Population Registry; (b) contribution collection;
(c) targeted benefit payments; (d) performance-related health care provider
reimbursements (doctors and hospitals), and control over pharmaceutical
benefits; and (e) financial management (international accounting standards,
budgeting, benefit control, debt collection and management reporting). The
Project will develop and implement a detailed transaction processing strategy
to ensure that costs are minimized (staffing and equipment) and that the
quality of customer service is maximized (accuracy and speed of claim
processing). It will introduce an on-line, real-time data processing system
with operators responsible for data entry and successful processing of most
transactions. This will provide for: (a) timely and accurate processing of
cash transactions; (b) effective collection of day-to-day operational data;
(c) timely access to management information and resolution of telephone or
personal enquiries; and (d) better control over eligibility, contributions and
benefit payments.
2.15     The Project will provide technical assistance (1,236 staff-months),
fellowships (52 staff-months), and on-the-job training to acquire, develop and
implement the above application software systems. The Project will provide
the necessary hardware, software, equipment and civil works under the
Technology Infrastructure subcomponent.
2.16     Technology Infrastructure (USSllO.l million base cost).  This
subcomponent will allow the Implementing Agency to acquire or, when
appropriate, to produce the equipment and materials needed to adopt modern
approaches in the areas of service delivery, data processing and financial
control. The Project will provide the following equipment, hardware, software
and materials: (a) data processing equipment and facilities; (b) card
production equipment and facilities; (c) telephones; and (d) office equipment
packages. Applications software developed under the previous subcomponent
will rely on the data processing equipment and facilities provided under this
activity. Indeed, this subcomponent will provide most of the major hardware
and software requirements for the Project only local area networks (terminals
and personal computers) and standard commercial software packages will be
provided under the other subcomponents. The Project will rely on other



- 18 -
ongoing projects in Hungary for its telecommunication network infrastructure.
These parallel projects are expected to be completed within the next 12 to 24
months.
2.17     The Project will provide the Implementing Agency with the main
processing power, equipment and facilities to conduct on-line and real-time
processing of high volume transaction data and maintain large databases that
will be required to individualize pensions contribution records and
performance-related health care reimbursements. The system architecture will
provide a geographically distributed network of terminals with access to
central databases and application software functions. The nature of this
system architecture, whether centralized or distributed processing, dumb
terminals or intelligent workstations, will be determined within the systems
planning phase in the interest of cost-effectiveness and functionality.
2.18     The Project will also provide machines to: (a) emboss/engrave plastic
cards with social insurance numbers and personal information obtained through
the eligibility system; (b) attach the cards to card-carriers to facilitate
mailing; and (c) distribute the resulting package to individuals. It will
help the Implementing Agency to improve the service level provided to clients
and efficiency of internal communication among staff by providing the central
administration of the pensions and health insurance systems and county
directorate offices with a modern Private Automatic Branch Exchange (PABX) and
Automatic Call Distribution (ACD) telephone system with automatic queuing for
control of customer calls. Finally, the Project will improve day-to-day
efficiency by providing basic office equipment packages for central and local
offices that will include photocopiers, facsimile machines, word processors,
ergonomic office furniture, modern counters and ancillary equipment.
2.19     The Project will provide technical assistance (29 staff-months),
fellowships (15 staff-months), and training to acquire/produce the above
technology infrastructure. The Project will also adapt an existing Data
Processing Center for the computer installation, computer hardware, software,
telephones and ancillary equipment as well as provide for the retrofit of
various facilities needed to support a major computer installation and the
upgrading of the administrative infrastructure of the Implementing Agency.
C.  Environmental ImRact
2.20     The Project has been classified as C: "No appreciable environmental
impact". Environmental considerations will feature, however, in the Health
Services and Management Project which will be implemented in close
coordination with this Project.



- 19 -
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
3.1      Summary of Project Costs.  The total cost of the Pensions
Administration and Health Insurance Project is estimated at about Ftl5.5
billion or US$201.3 million equivalent including contingencies, taxes and
duties. The total base cost is estimated at about US$158.0 million. Price
contingencies between appraisal (June/July 1992) and the end of project
implementation will amount to about US$29.8 million, or 17.4 percent of base
cost plus physical contingencies. Total contingencies represent 27 percent of
the base cost. The foreign exchange component, including contingencies, is
estimated at US$132.0 million, or about 66 percent of total project cost. In
an attempt to reduce the scope and complexity of the Project to a minimum,
total project costs do not include the following linked activities that are
financed through the SIA's investment budget: (a) construction of a new "Head
Office" building that will house the proposed computer facilities (budgeted at
Ft. 3 billion or US$38 million in 1992 prices); and (b) construction of new
local Service Offices. Had these locally financed and linked activities been
included under total project costs, the foreign exchange component financed by
the Bank would have been even less than the 60 percent ratio recommended for
Hungary. The total project cost includes technical assistance, preparation of
studies, fellowships and training, equipment, computer hardware and
applications software, limited civil works and refurbishment of facilities,
and incremental recurrent costs incurred during the five-year project
implementation period. The estimated cost distribution by project component
is shown in Table 3.1. The summary of project cost by category of expenditure
appears in Table 3.2. The detailed cost estimates of each project component
by category of expenditure are shown in Annex 6.
3.2      Basis of Cost Estimates.  Project costs were estimated as follows:
(a)   Base Costs.  Cost estimates are derived from:  (a) costs of
consultants, fellowships and training from ongoing technical
assistance (TA) and specialized services in the Human
Resources Project (Loan 3313-HU) and the Financial System
Modernization Project (Loan 3191-HU); (b) recent quotations
from suppliers of equipment; (c) applications software costs
from comparisons with ongoing software development activities;
(d) civil works from recent costs of building/remodelling
infrastructures similar to the Project facilities obtained
from local architects; and (e) staff unit costs from current
public service salary scales with some adjustments for the
remuneration of local technical staff to a level deemed
competitive with the market for specialized services. All
project costs have been converted into US dollar terms on the
basis of July 1992 prices adjusted at the official exchange
rate of 79.0 Forint per US dollar (October 1992).
(b)    Contingency Allowances.  Project costs include a contingency
for unforeseen physical variations/additions (US$13.5 million)



- 20 -
Table 3.1: PROJECT SUMMARY BY PROJECT COMPONENT
S of     X
-- Forint Million -----  ----- US$ Million -----   Base   Foreign
Local    Foreirn    Total   Local  Foreixn   Total   Costs  Exchange
1    MARAGE3ST DEVELOPZT AND FL*IWI
1.1 Prolect Management
Project Management Unit (PM)                54.8      275.9      330.8       0.7     3.e  4.3          33       83X
Subtotal:         54.       275.9      330.8   _0.7       .                   31      83X
1.2  Systems Plannint and Organization
Strategic Systems Plan                       7.9      485.1      493.0      0.1   B.3        6.4        41      98s
Systems Organization                       205,6      215.6      421.3      2.7     2.8      5.5        32    51
Subtotal:        2136       700.7      914.3      2.8      9.1    11.9        8       77X
1.3 Planning Development Unit (PDU)
Creation of PDU                             47.9       61.0      108.9      0.6      0.8     1.4        1l      56X
Development of Policy                        0 0      346.5    34.5         0.0      4.5     4,5        32 lOO
Subtotal:         47.9      407.5      4554       0.6     5.3      5.9        42      89%
1.4 Preinvestment Study
Preparation of Preinveatment Study           00       154 .0 154.0          0.0      2.0     2.0        12    100%
Subtotal:      0,           15J ,0     154.0      0.0 2,     0  2,0 .         O      100
2.   OPERATICRAL IIPRhSTKlCTURE
2.1 Application Software
Personal ID/Eligibility Recording           57.5      166.6      224.1      0.7      2.2     2.9        22      74%
Contribution Collection                     56.5      237.9      294.5      0.7      3.1     3.8        2X    81%
Benefit Payment                             66.4      458.9      535.3      0.9      6.1     7.0        42      881
Health Care Provider Reimbursement         100.1      391.1      491.2      1.3      5.1     6.4        42      80%
Financial Management                    0*      0     289.2      289.2      0.0      3.8    3.8         22    100%
Subtotal:        280.4  1.,553.    1.834.2        3.5    20.2    23.8        152      85%
2.2 Technoloaical Infrastructure
Data Processing Equipment/Facilities  2,990.4   4,367.9   7,358.2    38.8    56.7    95.6              602      59X
Card Production Equipment/Facilities    238.5         242.0      480.4      3.1     3.1      6.2        42      50%
Telephones                                 111.9      197.5      309.4      1.5     2.6      4.0        32      64%
Office Equipment Packages                  165.2      163.3      328.5      2.1     2.1      4.3        32      50%
Subtotal:      3506.0   4.970.6  0.476.6    45.5    64.6   110,1             70X      59%
TOTAL  A     O STS:    4,102.7   8,062.6  12,163.2    53.3   104.7   158.0         100l      66%
Physical Contingncies:        387.3      651.0   1,038.2       5.0     8.5    13.5         9S    63%
Price Contingencie:         839.5   1.453.8   2.293.4    10.9    18,9    29.8          19X    63X
TOTAL PROJECT COTS:    5.329.5  ,10.167.4  15496.8    69.2   132.0   201.3             1272     66%
NOTE:   Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
Taxes and duties are estimated at US$36.4 million equivalent to 22.12 of cost of goods and services
except TA which is expected to be tax exmpt.



- 21 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT COST S8LARY BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
X of       2
------ Forint Million ------  ----- US$ Million -----   Bass   Foreign
Local   Foreimn    Total    Local  Foreimn  Total    Costs  Exchange
1. TECEHICAL ASSISTANCE
Fellowships, Training                     0.0       99.9        99.9       0.0      1.3      1.3        1X    1002
Specialists                               0.0   2,274.2   2,274.2          0.0    29.5    29.5         19X    100l
Studies/Program Development               0,0      731.5      731.5        0.0      9.5      9.5        62    100l
Subtotal:         0,0   3.105.8   3,105.           0.0    40.3    40.3         26X    1002
2 EQIPMRNT. MATERIALS and SOFTWARE
Equipment                               216.2       519.9      736.1       2.8      6.8      9.6        62      71%
Computer Systems                      1,276.7   3,070.5   4,347.1         16.8    39.9    56.5         36X      712
Proprietary Software/Books               58.9       47.4       106.2       0.8      0.8      1.4        12      45X
Materials/Supplies                      160.9       100.9      261.8       2.1      1.3      3.4        22      39X
Furniture                               113.5        9.8       123.3       1.5      0.1      1.6        1X       8X
Subtotal:    1.826.0   3.748.4   5.574,5          23.7    48.7    72.4         46X      67%
3. CIVIL WORS
Refurbishing of Facilities              110.2        8.8       119.0       14       0.1      1.5        1X       72
subtotal:        110.2        8,8      119.0       1.4      0.1      1.5        12       72
4. ICRDEETAL RECURRENT COSTS
Local Staff Salaries                    460.2        0.0       460.2       6.0      0.0      6.0        42      0O
Computer O&M                            345.3      342.4      687.7        4.5      4.4      8.9        62      50%
Computer Software Maintenance            50.0      143.0       193.0       0.6      1.9      2.5        22      74X
Equipment O&M/spare parts                90.1       64.7       154.9       1.2      0.8      2.0        12      422
Building O&M                              9.1        0.4         9.4       0.1      0.0      0.1       0        42
Non-salary Operational Costs          1.211.7      649.3   1.861.0        15.7      B.4    24.2        152      352
Subtotal:    2.166.5   1.199.7   3.366.2          28.1    15.6    43.7         28X      36%
TOTAL BASE COSTS:    4,102.7   8,062.6  12,165.2           53.3   104.7   158.0        100l      662
Physical Contingencies:         387.3      651.0   1,038.2         5.0      8.5    13.5         9X      632
Price Contingencies:         839.5   1.453.8   2.293.5         10.9    18.9    29.8         19X      632
TOTAL PROJ1C  COSTS:    5.329.5  10.167.4  15.496.8           69.2   132.0   201.3         127X     662
NOTE:   Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
Taxes and duties are estimated at US$36.4 million equivalent to 22.12 of cost of goods and services
except TA which is expected to be tax exempt.
equal to 5 percent of the base cost of technical assistance and
staff salaries, and 10 percent for all other project items.
Annual rates of foreign price increases have been estimated at
2.8 percent in CY 1992, 3.9 percent in CY 1993-94, and
3.8 percent thereafter. Because of the large differential
between the estimated annual foreign and local inflation rates,
the overall price increases for the Project have been calculated
on the basis of the estimated foreign price increases. This
approach is justified on the assumption that the policy of
adjusting the Forint exchange rate to reflect the inflation
differential between Hungary and its trading partners will continue.12/
i2/ The table on the next pate is provided for information only; it shows the effects on project cost
estimates in Forint when applying the projected local price escalation rates to both local and foreign
costs. The projected price escalation rates for goods and services are estimated at 19 percent in CY
1992, 13 percent in 1993, 11 percent in 1994, 9 percent in 1995, and 7 percent thereafter.



- 22 -
(c)   Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component is
estimated at about US$132.0 million including contingencies,
or about 66 percent of total project cost. Calculations of
the foreign exchange component were derived from an item by
item analysis resulting in the following: (a) building works,
furniture, local materials and supplies--8 percent;
(b) equipment, computer hardware and software--71 percent;
(c) books--88 percent; (d) annual licensing/upgrading costs of
computer software --74 percent; (e) imported materials and
supplies--67 percent; (f) technical assistance, fellowships,
training and studies--100 percent; (g) recurrent costs for the
operation and maintenance of computer hardware--50 percent;
(h) equipment maintenance--42 percent; (i) local staff
salaries--O percent; and (j) other non-salary recurrent costs
--4 percent.
(d)   Customs Duties and Taxes.  Project costs include an estimated
average 22 percent, or US$36.4 million equivalent, for customs
duties and taxes on works, goods and services. It is assumed
that technical assistance services for the Project will be
exempt from taxes.
3.3      Incremental Recurrent Costs.  All recurrent costs included in the
Project are incremental and directly attributable to the Project. These
recurrent costs arise mainly from: (a) the operation and maintenance of data
processing equipment; (b) maintenance of computer applications software;
(c) card production equipment operations and supplies; and (d) salaries of
incremental staff to operate the new data processing equipment. The total
additional recurrent (base) cost incurred during the five-year project period
will amount to about US$43.7 million equivalent. At full operational status
of facilities and programs supported by the Project (by 1997), the annual
incremental recurrent expenditure is estimated to be about Ft 1.2 billion
(approximately US$16.0 million equivalent). This annual incremental recurrent
cost will constitute about 0.59 percent of the 1992 total functional budget
for the SIA (Ft 1,049 billion), and is deemed to be sustainable in light of
the efficiency gains which will be brought about by the Project, and measures
now being instituted in the system to reduce other recurrent costs. The
computerization of the Implementing Agency's claims processing capability is
expected to significantly reduce staffing requirements within three to four
years. The Implementing Agency will pay extra attention during implementation
to monitoring the adequacy of recurrent funds for maintenance and operation of
facilities and newly instituted programs, and to taking the necessary actions
to rectify any deficiencies.
12/ Continued                  Local    Foreign   Total
---------- Forint Billion --------
Total Bass Costs      4,102.2   8,062.6  12,165.2
physical Contingencies  387.3    665.0   1,038.2
Price Contingencies   3,22.9 9  5764.1   8,994.0
Total Prolect Cost    7,719.9  14,477.6  22,197.5



- 23 -
B. Proiect Financing
3.4      The proposed Bank loan of US$132.0 million will finance 100 percent
of the foreign exchange component of the Project. The Government will finance
the balance of project costs (US$69.2 million) or 100 percent of local costs,
including duties and taxes estimated at US$36.4 million equivalent. At the
Government's request, retroactive financing of up to US$8.0 million will be
included to cover the cost of equipment, specialist services and in-house
training necessary for early project start-up. Retroactive financing will be
limited to expenditures incurred prior to loan signing but after July 10, 1992
(subcomponents 1.1, 2.23 and 2.24). The onlending arrangements will be as
follows: the Borrower will onlend in Forints to the Pensions Insurance Fund
(PF) and Health Insurance Fund (HIF) either at the National Bank of Hungary's
prevailing refinancing rate (base rate) with the Borrower bearing the foreign
exchange risk or at the prevailing Bank lending rate with the PF and HIF
bearing the foreign exchange risk. In both instances, the grace period and
maturity will be identical to those of the Loan Agreement. The subsidiary
loan agreement will specify the proportion of the repayment obligations
between the two funds. The Project financing plan and financing by year are
shown in Tables 3.3 and 3.4 below. For loan effectiveness, the Bank will
require that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower on the one side, and PF, HIF and Implementing Agency on the other.
Table 3,3: FINANCING PLAN
(Cost in USS Million)
Local           Foreign             Total
Amount    I of    Amount    2 of    Amount     I of
Total             Total              Total
Government of Hungary       69.2     100X      0.0        0X     69.2       34X
World Bank                   0.0       0X    132.0      100X    132.0       66X
Total Financing                      -        -         -             -
Requirements              69.2     100X    132.0      1001    201.3      1001
Note: Numbers many not add up due to rounding.
Project costs include taxes and duties equivalent to US$36.4 million.
Table 3.4: FINANCING REQUIREMENTS BY YEAR
(Cost in USS Million)
Bank Fiscal Year        93 a/    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98   TOTAL
Local Funds              1.3      4.6     9.8     21.5    18.1     13.9    69.2
Foreign Funds            8.0     14.0     27.3    38.5    28.1     16.1   132.0
Total Financing          9.3     16.6     37.1    60.0    46.3     30.0   201.3
NOTE: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
a/ 01 July 92 - 30 June 93



- 24 -
C. Proiect Management and ImDlementation
3.5      Overview.  The Project will be implemented over a five-year period
and is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997. The detailed project
implementation schedule is shown in Annex 7.  The Project will be implemented
by the staff of the central administration of the SIA, County Directorates and
local Service Offices, and in divisional units that are being organized to
carry out the future Implementing Agency's operations more effectively.
Coordination of the Project-related activities of these agencies will be the
responsibility of the PMU attached directly to the office of the General
Manager of the SIA or his legal successor. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that PF and HIF shall, upon the constitution of their respective
general assemblies and presidiums in accordance vith the provisions of Law
LXXXIV and in order to secure the continuity of Project execution, set up a
legal entity, which will enter into all the rights and assume all the
obligations of SIA under the Project Agreement; the responsibilities of this
new entity will consist of joint activities of PF and HIF in order to avoid
duplication of capacities (e.g., data processing, information technology,
collection of contributions and cash benefit payments), and it will include
and maintain divisions responsible for information technology and service
delivery, and a unit responsible for planning development, all with proper
staffing.
3.6      Proiect Management and Coordination.  The PMU will exercise overall
responsibility for coordinating the implementation of the Project. It will
facilitate resource flows to the implementing units, and to the extent
appropriate, consolidate the procurement of goods and services for greater
efficiency and to achieve economies of scale. The PMU will also serve as the
clearing house for project issues requiring the attention of top management
and external agencies including the Bank. The PHU will not design or
implement programs and activities supported by the Project, as this will be
the responsibility of the line departments of the Implementing Agency, and the
newly created Information Technology Division, Service Delivery Division and
Planning Development Unit. A full-time Project Manager and two full-time
senior coordinators (one for the Management Development and Planning Component
and the other for the Operational Infrastructure Component) have been
appointed and working in the unit since the beginning of project preparation.
The PKU's operations will be supported by full-time technical staff (at least
three positions) and support personnel (at least two positions) with skills in
accounting, procurement, contract administration, information processing, and
records management. The PMU will be assisted by the following divisions of
the Implementing Agency: (a) Legal and Procurement Divisions for procurement
and contract administration; (b) International Relations Division for
TA/fellowship placements and overall training requirements, including training
of all higher-level managers of the Implementing Agency; and (c) Accounting
Division for accounts and audit reports. The additional PMU staff were
appointed prior to negotiations. The PMU's responsibilities are described in
further detail in Annex 8.
3.7      To support the institutional strengthening of the Implementing
Agency, the Project will provide TA in the areas of project management,
planning, procurement and contract administration. Intensive TA support
(about 84 staff-months per year) will be provided during the first three years
of implementation. This TA support is expected to taper off during the latter



- 25 -
half of the implementation period to about four to six staff-months per year
once the PMU has acquired sufficient expertise. During negotiations, the
TORs, as well as the procedures for contracting the project management
assistance to the PMU, were reviewed by the Bank and the SIA.
3.8      Proiect Implementation  Arrangements.  In view of limited
implementation capability in some areas of project intervention, particularly
in those activities involving the development of applications software, the
Implementing Agency will hire additional full-time professional staff for
selected departments. Procedures for the implementation of each subcomponent,
as well as an organizational chart showing the project management
arrangements, are presented in Annex 8. The implementation of each project
sub-component will be the responsibility of the appropriate department
concerned, as shown in Annex 9 and Chart 3.1 below. Each line agency or unit
will liaise closely with the PMU to ensure the timely flow of resources
adequate for implementing its programs, and coordinate with other involved
agencies/units. An accompanying Project Operational Manual (POM) provides:
(a) an action matrix for each subcomponent of the Project; (b) detailed terms
of reference (TORs) for the necessary technical assistance; (c) sample
progress reporting and monitoring formats; and (d) technical background.
Chart 3.1: CHART OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES
Component & Sub-Component                   Responsible Department
I. MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
Project Management & Coordination           Project Management Unit in
collaboration with Legal,
Procurement, Accounting and
International Relations Divisions
Systems Planning & Organization
Strategic Systems Plan                   Project Development Office (PDO)
Computer Programmer Training             PDO/Info Technology Division (ITD)
Planning Development Unit                   Planning Development Unit (PDU)
Preinvestment Study                         PDU
II. OPERATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Apvlication Software
Personal ID/Eligibility                  PDO/ITD
Contribution Collection                  PDO/ITD
Benefit Payment                          PDO/ITD
Health Care Provider Reimbursement       PDO/ITD
Financial Management                     PDO/ITD/Accounting Division
Technological Infrastructure
Data Processing Equip/Facilities         PDO/ITD
Card Production Equip/Facilities         Services Delivery Div (SDD)
Telephones                               SDD
Office Equipment Packages                PDO/SDD/ITD



- 26 -
3.9      Bank Supervision.  Notwithstanding the above provisions, the Project
will require, on average, about 25 staff-weeks of Bank supervision per year.
This will be true particularly for the first two years, when several policy-
oriented components tightly linked to the Health Services and Management
Project will be implemented. These include payment of primary care providers,
both private and public, as well as the introduction of management support
systems and new payment modalities for hospitals. Wherever possible, staff
will cover preparation and multiple supervision tasks in the same missions for
other social sector projects considered for Bank financing, including the
Health Services and Management Project to be presented to the Board at the
same time as this project. In addition to Bank inputs, it is expected that
supplementary resources from other international donors will also be used.
The project supervision plan is shown in Annex 10.
D. Proiect Procurement Arrangements
3.10     To the extent practicable, items to be procured under the Project
will be grouped into major packages to encourage competitive bidding, permit
bulk procurement and ensure standardization in systems development.
Procurement undertaken in the following manner:
(a)  Equipment Procurement.  Invitations to bid on equipment will be
grouped by the PMU into major packages of goods, the contents of
which could be typically provided by one supplier. Equipment will be
procured following international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures
for equipment packages estimated to cost more than US$300,000
equivalent per contract, in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (May 1992). Major
equipment bids will constitute about six packages of computer
equipment and peripherals, and two packages for card production and
communications equipment. Compatibility and availability of local
maintenance services will be given important consideration in the
procurement of computer hardware and peripherals. Equipment procured
through ICB will account for about 85 percent of the Project's
equipment requirements. Procurement of the remaining 15 percent of
the equipment value will be in packages suitable for procedures other
than ICB. In the comparison of bids for equipment procured through
ICB, domestic manufacturers will be allowed a preferential margin of
15 percent, or the existing customs duty, whichever is lower, over
the CIF prices of competing imports.
(b) The exceptions to ICB procurement will be as follows:
(i)   Local Competitive Bidding (LCB).  The LCB procedures agreed
with NBH for procurement under the Product Market Development
Project (Loan 3509-HU) will also apply for LCB procurement
under this project. A standard LCB bidding document for civil
works has been approved by the Bank for use under the Product
Market Development Project. Locally-financed expenditures
(US$1.9 million equivalent) for the refurbishing/remodelling of
buildings will be procured on the basis of these LCB
procedures.



- 27 -
(ii)  International ShoRRing (IS).  IS procedures will be used for
small amounts of goods where the cost of ICB clearly outweighs
possible price advantages. Contracts for goods which are
estimated to cost less than US$300,000 in each package but do
not exceed an aggregate amount of US$4.4 million equivalent,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from two eligible countries eligible under the
Guidelines in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
(iii) Local Shopping (LS). Items or groups of items not exceeding
US$50,000 per contract and aggregating to a maximum of
US$2.0 million equivalent could be purchased on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
local suppliers in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
(iv)  Direct Procurement.  Goods and technical licenses which the
Bank agrees: (a) are of proprietary nature; (b) of which the
timely supply thereof is critical for efficient project
execution; or (c) need to be compatible with other installed
equipment may be procured through direct negotiations with
property/copyright owners, on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank. Such items include computer software, books,
technical journals, training materials, audiovisual materials,
copyrights, translation and reprinting rights, and are
estimated to cost about US$3.0 million in the aggregate.
(v)   Technical Assistance.  Qualified firms will be invited to
submit proposals for comprehensive packages of consultant
services, management of fellowships and training, in accordance
with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" (August
1981). To keep the evaluation process manageable, no more than
six (but at least three) proposals will be invited following a
short listing acceptable to the Bank. As needed, the services
of individual specialists (mainly to develop computer
applications software) will also be contracted on the basis of
short lists of eligible candidates. All TA services will be
procured in keeping with the terms of reference for such
services described in the POM and in keeping with the packaging
and schedule set out in Annex 11.
(vi)  Building and equipment maintenance services, annual computer
and software maintenance, staff salaries and other incremental
non-salary recurrent costs (US$58.2 million equivalent) will be
financed entirely by the Government and will be procured in
accordance with standard Government procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank.



- 28 -
3.11         Procurement  arrangements  under  the  Project  are  summarized below:
Table 3.5: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS AJ
(Cost in US$ million)
Procurement Method
Not Bank     TOTAL   X IBRD
Category of Expenditure            ICB        LCB       OTHER   Financed      COST   Financing
Civil Works                           --        1.9        --          --        1.9
(0.0)                           (0.0)       0O
Furniture                             --                   2.0 b/       --       2.0
(1.8)                 (1.8)      90X
Equipment/Computer Systems           82.3       --         2. eI       --       84.9
(74.0)                (2.6)                (76.5)       90X
Software/Books/Copyrights             --        --         3.2 q/      --        3.2
(3.0)                 (3.0)      90X
Misc Materials/Supplies               --        --         2.4 d/      --        2.4
(2.0)                 (2.0)      901
Fellowships/Study Tours               --        --         1.5 */      --        1.5
(1.5)                 (1.5)     100X
Specialists                           --        --        35.7 !/      --       35.7
(35.7)                (35.7)     100X
Studies/Program Development           --        --        11.4 .!     --        11.4
(11.4)                (11.4)     1001
Local Staff Salaries                  --        --         --          7.5 f/    7.5
(0.0)      O0
Building/Computer/Equip O&M           --        --         --         15.0 L/   15.0
(0.0)       OX
Computer Software Maintenance         --        --         --          3.4 tI    3.4
(0.0)       OX
Non-salary Operational Costs          --        --         --        32.3 VI   32.3
(0.0)       OX
Total Financing Requirements         82.3       1.9       58.9       58.2      201.3
(74.0)     (0.0)    (58.0)                (132.0)       66X
NOTES: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
p/  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank Loan.
b/  International shopping (aggregate-US$4.4 million) less than US$300,000 each contract.
L/  Intellectual property (aggregate-US$3.0 million) purchased directly/negotiated with
publishers and copyright owners.
d/  Prudent local shopping/off-the-shelf purchases (aggregate-US$2.0 million) less than
US$50,000 each contract.
*/  Procurement in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
L/  Locally financed salaries and non-salary items of recurrent expenditure procured
in accordance with standard government procedures.
3.12         Contract  Review.   All  equipment  listed  in  subcomponent  2.23  and  2.24,
of Annex  6,  with  an  aggregate  amount  of US$8  million  to be  financed
retroactively under the Project, will be procured following ICB procedures in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. The procurement of telephone and office
equipment is critical to early project start-up. TA contracts and fellowships
in subcomponent 1.11 to be financed retroactively, are required for loan
effectiveness (paras. 2.6 and 5.3(a)) and will be awarded following the Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. However, the World Bank will continue
to review master lists of equipment, packaging of bids and updated cost
estimates. Invitations to bid, bidding documents and the proposed award of
contracts valued in excess of US$500,000 per package will be the subject of
the Bank's prior review as well as the first two contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$300,000 or more. It is estimated that this review will
cover about 75 percent of the value of all contracts combined for equipment.
The remaining 25 percent of contracts will be subject to selective post-award



- 29 -
reviews by the Bank. The Bank will review only TORs and short lists for
consultant contracts under US$100,000 equivalent; above this threshold
standard Bank review procedures will apply.
3.13      Disbursements.  The proposed project is expected to be disbursed over
a period of about five and one-half years , /.  The disbursement schedule is
shown in detail in Annex 12.  This period, which is substantially less than
the average disbursement profile (8-1/2 to 9 years) for health sector projects
financed by the Bank, is deemed feasible because: (a) documents for technical
assistance contracts are ready for distribution to shortlisted firms; and
(b) equipment specifications are in an advanced state of preparation. A
substantial volume of equipment purchases and TA contracts (disbursing about
70 percent of the proposed loan) is expected to be undertaken during project
years 2 to 4. The financing plan by disbursement category is shown in Table
3 6 below.
Table 3.6: FINANCING PLAN BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY
(US$ Million)
Gov.roumt of       Total
World Junk      uU*E?          Fira cin
Category of Expenditure   Amount    I     Amount   X    Amount X of Total
TECNITCAL A$8ISTAJCZ           8 .6    100X  0.0         0X   48.     242
Fellowships                  1.5    100S    0.0      0X    1.5       1S
Specialists                 35.7    1001    0.0      0X   35.7      18S
Studies/Program Development  11.4    100X    0.0     0X   11.4       6X
E(WIHMNT. FURNITURE znd 3OFTWARE  .S   j90X  9.2       lOX   92.5      47X
Equipment/Computer Systems  76.2     90X    S.4      102   84.6     43X
Software/Dooks/Instructnl Matls   1.5    9O0    0.2  10X    1.7      1X
Miscell Materials/Supplies   3.8     902    0.4      10X    4.2      21
Furniture                    1.8     901    0.2      102    2.0      1X
C-IVIL h00                              0X    1.9    100X    1.9       1X
Construction/Upgrading       0.0      oX    1.9    1002    1.9       1X
INCREMENTAL RZCURRPTCOT        0 0      OX   51 2   _QX       58,2     29X
Local Staff Salaries         0.0      0X    7.5    100X    7.5       4X
Building/Equip/Computer OCM  0.0      0X   15.0    1002   15.0       72
Computer Software Maintenance  0.0    02    3.4    1002    3.4       22
Non-salary Operational Costs  0.0     0X   32.3    1002   32.3      162
TOTAL FINANCIG:            132.0     662   69.2      342  201.3    100X
NOTE: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
3.14      Disbursements will be made as follows:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment and installation
costs, furniture, books and training materials, proprietary software,
supplies and materials; 100 percent of ex-factory cost of locally
W/ Disbursements are *xpectod to lag behind expenditures by six months.



- 30 -
manufactured items; and 75 percent of the cost of goods procured
locally; and
(b) 100 percent of expenditures for technical assistance, fellowships,
training, preparation of studies and research.
3.15     All disbursements against contracts for goods and services exceeding
US$300,000 equivalent will be fully documented.  For expenditures below that
level, disbursements may be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure
(SOE) certified by the PMU Project Manager.  The required supporting
documentation will be retained by the PMU for at least one year after receipt
by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement
was made. This documentation will be made available for review by the
auditors and by visiting Bank staff upon request.
3.16     SRecial Account.  To facilitate timely project implementation, the
Government will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account denominated in US Dollars in the
National Bank of Hungary, to which the World Bank will deposit an initial
amount of US$8.0 million, which is judged adequate to cover about four months
of foreign expenditure requirements under the Project. The Special Account
will be replenished as appropriate when the undisbursed balance of the Account
falls below an amount equal to 50 percent or less of the amount of the Special
Account. Documentation requirements for replenishment applications will
follow the same procedure as described in paragraph 3.15. In addition,
monthly bank statements of the Special Account which have been reconciled by
the Borrower will accompany all replenishment requests. A Proiect Account in
Forints will be established prior to Loan Effectiveness which will be used by
the PMU for expenditures to be covered by local counterpart financing.
3.17     Project Accounts and Audits.  Separate project accounts will be
maintained by the PMUi for the Project. Project accounts, including the
Special Account, will be audited in accordance with the "Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank"
(March 1982). The Borrower would provide the Bank (within six months of the
end of each fiscal year), an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank
may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank, on disbursements against certified SOEs. The separate
opinion should mention whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal
applications.
E. Project Reporting and Evaluation
3.18     ReRorting and Annual Reviews.  The PMU will prepare semi-annual
descriptive and financial reports on each project component, objective and
activity (beginning from the date of Loan Effectiveness). The reports will
describe: (a) current status; (b) deviations, if any from the implementation
plan set forth in Annex 7; and (c) reasons for deviations and corrective



- 31 -
actions being taken. The POM includes sample progress-reporting documents.
Reporting and Bank supervision will focus on in-depth reviews of the policy
framework for sectoral improvements, the consistency of activities for each
component and subcomponent with agreements reached at appraisal/negotiations,
performance of the implementing groups and institutions, assessment of
emerging needs for adjustments to project parameters, and possible follow-up
operations which could be supported by the Bank. The basis of Bank
supervision will be the semi-annual progress reports and the annual evaluation
of project activities by the Implementing Agency. This will be supplemented
by a review of project expenditures and availability of financial resources,
in addition to substantive discussions with technical assistance groups
implementing/assisting in the implementation of various components, and
discussions with senior management of the Implementing Agency and the
Government.  The POM, agreed upon with the Government during negotiations,
will also be used to assist supervision and reporting. During negotiations,
the Government provided assurances that, no later than March 31 of each year,
during the execution of the project, the Implementing Agency shall furnish to
the Bank a technical and financial report, of such coverage, detail, and
format as the Bank may reasonably request, on the status of Project
implementation (as of December 31 of each year) and review thereafter, with
the Bank, issues related to the execution of the Project.
F. Status of Preparation
3.19     Project Preparation.  The status of preparatory activities at the
time of negotiations in January 1993 is as follows:
(a) Designation of Project Coordination and Implementation
ResRonsibilities. Coordination and responsibilities of the PMU and
implementing institutional units have been defined. The three
principal officers of the PMU are in place but the full complement of
support staff remain to be appointed. Team leaders to head each
project component/subcomponent have been nominated.
(b) Equipment Lists/Bidding Documents. There are standard draft bidding
documents in the NBH for works, equipment and services which have
been prepared with Bank assistance for Bank-financed projects in
Hungary. These standard bidding documents will be adapted/modified
by the PMU to suit the specific requirements of the Project.
Equipment lists have been prepared, but the technical specifications
need to be further detailed for bidding purposes. An equipment
specialist will be contracted to assist in finalizing these
documents.
(c) Terms-of-Reference (TORs) are being prepared for TA needed in:
(i) preparing the strategic systems plan for the computerization of
the Implementing Agency; (ii) preparing the strategic financial
management plan; and (iii) assisting/strengthening the PMU in project
management. These TORs are included in the POM.



- 32 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1      The Project's ultimate benefit will be to strengthen the programs and
financial viability of the PF and HIF, within the constraints imposed by tight
control over public expenditures. Administrative modernization will lead to:
(a) improved client services through more efficient benefit payments and
responsiveness to benefit inquiries; and (b) cost savings through more
effective administrative methods and more efficient policy options than are
possible using the current system of manual recordkeeping. For example, the
delays between client application and benefit payments will be significantly
reduced through on-line access to an eligibility database and automatic
triggering of certain benefits related to births and deaths. Local Service
Offices will improve client access. In the case of financial management,
improved access to information on individualized contributions records and
eligibility status will tighten control over fraud and abuse. With
outstanding contributions receivables of Ft. 49 billion (US$636 million) in
1991, improving the collection of contributions and reducing debt by less than
30 percent over the life of the Project will allow the PF and HIF to repay the
original investment. If just five percent of the likely costs of
pharmaceutical benefits and hospital care can be economized by reducing waste
in their provision, savings in overall health care expenditures in excess of
the total yearly cost of the Project will be achieved. Such savings could be
redirected to other areas of the health sector. This will lead to significant
cross-benefits for the companion Health Services and Management Project.
B. Riaks
4.2      The Project's major risks include: (a) the weak institutional
capacity to implement meaningful reforms; (b) the prospective creation of new
divisions in the context of a broader restructuring of the administration of
the social insurance system for which the final configuration and timing
remains uncertain; and (c) volatility in the political commitment of
Parliament to introduce cost saving policies. To contain these risks within
prudent limits, the Project includes the following specific activities.
Extensive technical assistance and twinning arrangements with similar
institutions in western countries will be provided to strengthen project
management capacity and to assist in the detailed design of a strategic
systems plan. The new Information Technology Division and Service Delivery
Division will be structured as much as possible around existing divisions to
mitigate the risk of creating these new units and to ensure that they are
rapidly made operational. Finally, training and fellowships will be provided
through the Planning Development Unit to strengthen policy-making, management
and evaluation. This will reduce the risks due to inexperience in operating
new services and foster a positive setting for an ongoing evolution in cost-
saving social insurance policies. The Bank will conduct a mid-term review of
these policies to ensure that they will have been effective in protecting the
financial viability of the PF and HIF, and that they will not have had adverse
spill-over effects on the state budget.



- 33 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1      The following actions are required to assure successful
implementation of the project and attainment of the broader project
objectives.
5.2      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)      PF, HIF and the Implementing Agency shall carry on their
operations and conduct their affairs in accordance with
sound administrative and financial practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted
by competent staff in adequate numbers (para. 2.6);
(b)      during execution of the Project, PF and HIF shall not
increase the total combined employer/employee contribution
rate and shall ensure that transfers obtained from the
Borrower's budget would be made exclusively to cover:
(i) non-insurable risks; (ii) payment to non-contributing
recipients of cash benefits; and (iii) other specified non-
contributing categories (para. 2.10);
(c)      PF, HIF and the Implementing Agency shall improve the ratio
(in percent) of aggregate accounts receivables in arrears of
PF and HIF, net of: (i) accumulated interest and fines on
overdue accounts receivables; (ii) receivables in arrears
due from enterprises under bankruptcy or liquidation
procedures; and (iii) payment obligations of enterprises
under separate settlements, and the contributions having
fallen due to PF and HIF during the ongoing year, compared
with such ratio at the end of the previous year, by at
least: 4 percent as of December 31, 1995; 6 percent as of
December 31, 1966; 8 percent as of December 31, 1997; and 10
percent as of December 31, 1998 (para. 2.10);
(d)      PF and HIF shall, upon the constitution of their respective
general assemblies and presidiums in accordance with the
provisions of Law LXXXIV and in order to secure the
continuity of Project execution, set up a legal entity,
which will enter into all the rights and assume all the
obligations of SIA under the Project Agreement; the
responsibilities of this new entity will consist of joint
activities of PF and HIF in order to avoid duplication of
capacities (e.g., data processing, information technology,
collection of contributions and cash benefit payments), and
it will include and maintain divisions responsible for
information technology and service delivery, and a unit
responsible for planning development, all with proper
staffing (para. 3.5);
(e)      no later than March 31 of each year, during the execution of
the Project, the Implementing Agency shall furnish to the



- 34 -
Bank a technical and financial report, of such coverage,
detail, and format as the Bank may reasonably request, on
the status of Project implementation (as of December 31 of
each year) and review, thereafter with the Bank issues
related to the execution of the Project (para. 3.18).
Conditions of Effectiveness
5.3      For loan effectiveness, the Bank will require that:
(a)      the Implementing Agency has signed a contract to employ a
management consultant firm to support the PMU in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement (para. 2.6); and
(b)      the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower on the one side, and PF, HIF and Implementing
Agency, on the other (para. 3.4).
Recommendation
5.4      Subject to the above, the proposed operation provides a suitable
basis for a loan of US$132.0 million to the Government of Hungary.



-35 -                              ANNEX 1
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSIONS ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
THE HUNGARIAN CONTEXT
1.   The Hungarian system of income transfers and health care financing,
though extensive, is ill-adapted to meet the needs of a market economy. This
Annex highlights key issues relating to the social insurance system under the
following three headings: (A) Pensions and Other Cash Benefits; (B) Health
Care Financing; and (C) Review of Statutory Assets and Liabilities.l/
2.    Compulsory social insurance, in the form of earmarked payroll-based
contributions, is used to finance most income support programs and health
services. Financing for the consolidated Social Insurance Fund (SIF) is
independent of the state budget, except for the provision of a state
guarantee, and is secured by an earmarked payroll contribution in accordance
with Social Security Acts of 1988. As of January 1, 1992 the SIF was
separated into a Pensions Fund (PF) and the Health Insurance Fund (HIF).2/
The Social Insurance Administration (SIA) is the executive agency for the two
Funds through its Head Office, County Directorates and local Service Offices.
A. Pensions and Other Cash Benefits
3.   The socialist model failed to produce its predicted economic growth and
social protection. Since the second half of the 1970s, economic activity has
stagnated, growth in labor productivity has decelerated, inflationary
pressures have increased, and demographic trends have continued to worsen.
This slowdown has contributed to substantial labor redundancies and growing
social needs. Instead of shedding excess labor, redundancies were concealed
in the payroll. Payroll tax rates were raised and eligibility requirements
relaxed, leading to over use of sick pay, disability compensation and early
retirement. Over time, financial resources available to the income support
programs and health sector were spread increasingly thinly over large
populations of both needy and less needy beneficiaries.
Poverty Relief and Financial Sustainabilitv
4.    The move to a market economy had two significant effects that have a
direct bearing on the need for income support programs to protect populations
1/ A more detailed description of the Hungarian cash benefit system is provided in IBRD, Hungary - Reform
of the Social Policy and Distribution System, July 17, 1991; and IMF, Social Security Reform in
Hungary, Prepared by G. Kopits, R. Holzmann, G. Schieber, and E. Sidgwick, October 12, 1990.
2/ In Hungary, like many continental European countries, the Health Insurance Fund is responsible for
financing both health services and short-term cash benefits such as sick pay, disability pensions and
maternal benefits. Long-term cash benefits (pensions) are financed through the Pensions Fund.



- 36 -                               ANNEX 1
against poverty, and the need for improved targeting to protect the financial
viability of essential public services: (a) a widening distribution of
income; and (b) incomplete poverty relief. The impact of these phenomena are
exacerbated by demographic pressures.
5.    Widening Distribution of Income.  A first major consequence of the move
to a market economy has been the changes in relative wages and prices leading
to a redistribution of income. Wages fell by 10-15 percent in real terms
between 1989 and 1991. Disadvantaged groups, including those facing declining
relative wages and rising relative prices, feel the major impact of these
changes because subsidies on basic commodities have also been withdrawn. Many
households, including the elderly, have been disenfranchised due to the lack
of a previous or a current work relationship. The "new poor" now need more
help through income transfer programs than is presently being provided and the
"new rich" need less help.
6.    Two additional significant trends in household incomes during the past
decade were: (a) changes in the composition of labor income with an increase
in the importance of secondary employment in the private or quasi private
sector; and (b) the growth in cash benefits. Labor income declined throughout
the 1980s, while income transfers continued to grow, reaching an impressive 41
percent of household income by 1989.
7.    Supplementary employment has increased the dispersion of incomes towards
the upper and lower extremes since 1982. Households have been able to
maintain their real incomes only to the extent that they participated in such
secondary employment. The introduction of a personal income tax (PIT) in 1988
moderated this dispersion only slightly. Among income transfers, primary
incomes of inactive earners (pensions, childcare allowances and unemployment
benefits) have been fairly evenly distributed across the population deciles,
while secondary social incomes (family allowances, student aid, and other cash
transfers) favor the lower third of the income distribution. Benefits in kind
(health care and education) are more evenly distributed. The Figure below
shows the structure of household income in Hungary.
8.    Incomplete poverty relief.  One of the principal reasons for interest in
the distribution of income is its implications for the prevalence of absolute
poverty.   The absence of a system of social assistance (i.e. an income-tested
benefit of last resort) is a major gap in the Hungarian social safety net.
Such a system is needed, inter alia, because of the potentially large numbers
of unemployed individuals with little or no other source of income once their
entitlement to unemployment benefits has expired. Given the current fiscal
stringency, it can be argued that poverty relief should be given priority over
objectives such as income smoothing, which should be pursued only to the
extent that resources allow.



37 -                    ANNEX I
Figure  1    STRUCTURE OF HOUSEHOLD INCOME
100
7.5%
50%i
25%
0%
1976  1978  1960  1982  1984  1956  196 .
Social Income Cash    Social Income Kind
z Labor a Other Income
9.    An Income Survey and Household Budget Survey, conducted between 1977 and
1987, indicates that the total population living below the subsistence minima.
has not changed greatly over the decade. There is good evidence that the
incidence of poverty in households with active earners has been decreasing
while in inactive households poverty has been increasing. Poverty was greater
in urban areas than in rural areas, with rural households having better access
to earnings from private agricultural activities.
10.   The risk of poverty is greatest and is increasing for children, who in
1987 comprised 39 percent of the poverty group as against 27 percent of the
total population.   Persons on child care benefits were represented twice as
much in the poverty group as in the total population. This reflects the fact
that poverty is often more prevalent at the extremes of the life cycle.
Pensioners, comprising another important group, decreased from 25.5 percent of
the poor in 1977 to 15 percent in 1987, but their total share in the
population has increased. The Table below shows the age distribution of poor
and non-poor households in Hungary.



- 38 -                              ANNEX I
Table 1.1: AGE DISTRIBUTION OF POOR AND NON-POOR HOUSEHOLDS
ACTIVE HOUSEHOLDS              INACTIVE HOUSEHOLDS
With income
With average    under the poverty   With average  With income under
Age            income          line            income           the poverty line
0 - 5          4.4              12.9            0.8             3.1
6 - 14          14.1           27.7             0.4             6.2
15 - 44        47.3            47.5             1.6             9.9
44 - 69        32.2             10.2            73.8            42.7
over 70        2 0              1.7                               . 1
TOTAL          100              100             100             100
ource: Ministry of Finance. canlral Statisits OIce, anad Xwlorld  H ank , ' The Hungaran :  Policy !tms and ElA1.1i)uIIon of Incomes and
Households, Budapest 1990, Table 1.2.1/a
11.   Demographic Pressure.  Hungary is currently enjoying a brief spell of
reduced demographic pressure. Parameters of the population structure which
are relevant to social policy are: (a) the size of the youth population
(affecting in particular the needs for child care, family allowance and
education); (b) the retirement age group (determining needs for pensions and
health care); and (c) the working population (relevant for potential
unemployment and for the tax base to finance social benefits).
12.   Demographic relief will, however, be short-lived.  The Figure and the
Table on the next two pages project the trend of dependency ratios over the
next six decades according to assumptions regarding fertility and life
expectancy. The youth dependency ratio reaches its lowest point around 1995,
but there will be a need for greater enrollment coverage for secondary and
higher education. An anticipated temporary surge in the working age group is
unfortunate at a time when structural unemployment is already severe. A
contracting labor force after 1996 will mean a reduced tax base for social
insurance. An increase in the share of the elderly population in the medium-
term will compound this problem, putting increasing pressure on the PF around
the turn of the century. These trends underline the urgency of proposed
pensions reforms discussed in Annex 4.
Financing and Eligibility.
13.   The total social insurance contribution rate in Hungary exceeds that of
most western countries, and is approached only by Italy and Spain. Financing
for the two Funds consists of a 44 percent employer payroll contribution and a
10 percent employee contribution. The total contribution rate of 54 percent
is, however, misleading. For every Ft. 100 of wages, the employer pays an
additional contribution of Ft. 44 which does not appear as part of the gross
wage. The correct denominator for measuring the contribution rate is Ft. 144,
and the contribution rate on a basis comparable with western Europe is 54/144
- 37.5 percent.



-39-                                   ANEX I
Figure 1. 2
Hungary: Dependency Ratios Under
Scenario 11, 1949-2051 1/
100                                                                                                - 100
90                                                                                                -90
80 -       Total dapmn d.q  ratio                                                                   80
70-                                                                                                 70
60-                                                          Old-age dependency ratio            -60
so                                                                                                  50
Youth dependency ratio
0- .    ...............                                                                           - 40
., ,,, ,~~~.... . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .   ........ ... ..
30-                                         ...- 30
20-l.,l.. ....|   lw,| ..,. .|l111  20
1951     1961    1971    1981    1991    2001    2011    2021    2031    2041             2051
Source: &esweet leneliule ter Population Slence,t. Contral StatItilcal Offlice; and Fund staff estlmates.
I/ Dllnd. reopectlvofy. as ppulation a,d 0-14, 55., and 0-14 plus 55+. to activ. population aged 15-54.



Table 1. 2:   ungery:  Age Distribution of Total Population Projection (Scenario 11). 1986-2051
hedlus Sconarto
(1i thousends)
Age
arecket        1986   1989   1990   1991   1996   2000   2006   2011   2016   2021   2026   2031   2036   204I   2046   2051
0-  4          646    621    621    615    654    699    659    629    601    614    638    625    S98    582    S85    588
5-  9          821    699    662    644    617    641          705    688    625    600    614    637    624    597    582    584
1l  - 14        812    552    963    520    643    619    652    704    681    628    599    611    631    624    591    581
IS - 19         719    140   710    510    all    659    615    (. I    103    686    621    599    613    636    624    596
20 - 24         638    678    695    715    801    857    640    bl3    649    702    685    625    598    611    635    623
25 - 29         755    657    644    634        lII    763    all    637    611    646    699    653    624    596    610    634
30 - 34         904    864    803    749    629    689    791    806    613    608    643    696    680    622    594    608
IS - 39         1a1   8I       all    893    719    631    699    789    799    628    603    639    692    616    618    591
40 - 44         699    124    133    766         175    777    f11      688    119    789    621        591    633    686    671    613
45 - 49         641    667    686    611        743    832    706    591    614    164    175    611            588    624    611    662        XI
S0 - 54         639    609    605    612    641    681    819    682    518    655              143    156    591    51S    611    663          0
SS -59          645    624    614    598    514    616    614    118    651    55S    625               116    7130    577    551    592
60 -64          616    591    590   S5S    543    518    561    625    128    613    522    594    680    694    551    51I
65 - 69          369    532    535    536   5S1         489    465      504    568    667    560    481    551    630    646    512
70 - 74         411     213    269    300    434    421    400    398    435    498    S74    489              421    483    556    510
is - 19         305    318    318    294    218    312    301           295    291      126    385    451       393    3317    387    446
s0 - 64          158    168    114    119    171    IIS   I1S           181    113    115    210    260    312    261    225    259
95                82      l8     89      90    102    108        89    I05    108    106    111    142          118    194    182    163
Total  10,640 10,572 10,546 10,521 10,438 10,428 10,427 10,310 10,301 10,260 10.23S 10,222 10,151 10,006  9,906  9,815
Source: International Honetary Fund, Social Security Reform ln Hungary, October 1990, Table 40.
t, 



-41 -                                ANNEX 1
14.   Social insurance does not finance many other important cash benefits.
Unemployment benefits are paid out of an Employment Fund, which receives its
revenues from a separate 8 percent contribution (6 percent from the employer,
2 percent from the worker) and from budgetary transfers. Family allowance is
financed from the state budget. Social assistance is financed locally and
through state budget transfers. The Table below shows net social insurance
tax and transfers in Hungary and the OECD.
Table 1.3: NET SOCIAL INSURANCE TAX AND TRANSFERS
(% of GDP)
Total SI   Individual SI  Total     Total Social    Total    Individuals
Contribution   Contribution  Personal    Expenditures3l  Net Flow   Net Flow
(Employees   (Employees  Income
+ Employers)  Only)      Taxes
% of GDP    % of GDP     % of GDP               % of GDP  % of GDP
(1)        (2)           (3)       % of GDP     1 + 3)-4)  (2+3)-4
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(4 )
OECD Lower Income  8.3         2.5           7.4        21.0        -5.3      -11.0
States Average (1986)
OECD Social Welfare    12.0    5.0           15.0       31.0        -4.0      -11.0
States Average (1986) 1
Hungary (1989)     15.2        4.0           4.5        25.4        -6.0      -17.0
Source: For OECO  'Revenue Statistics of OECD Mbnber Countris, 19c5-87'
15.   Three strategic issues arise in relation to financing of the PF and HIF:
(a) changes in perception about the appropriate division in the total
contribution between workers, employers and the state; (b) lack of information
about individual contribution records and entitlement; and (c) need for
stricter enforcement in the collection of contributions.
16.   Division in Contribution Between Worker and Employer.  The balance in
contributions between workers and employers is one to four in favor of
workers. Though its theoretical importance is debatable,/ a more even
division in the future is important for the political signal it sends, namely
that the state is responsible for establishing the general framework for
social protection, and that the individual, through earnings and
contributions, is substantially responsible for himself. Where contributions
are paid almost entirely by enterprises, workers receive neither a signal
about the real costs of social insurance benefits and health services nor, in
consequence, any incentive to moderate their claims for benefits.
_   As defined by OECD.
/ In strict analytical terms, the incidonco of the contribution depends on the relative factor, and
product demand end supply elasticities. It is indopendent of where the contribution is legally imposed.
In theory, therefore, it does not matter how the contribution is shared between worker and employer.



- 42 -                               ANNEX 1
17.   Individual Contribution Records.  There is a lack of reliable
information about individual contribution records and a lack of an efficient
way to identify individuals. In areas such as retirement pensions, better
information is desirable for several reasons: (a) it presents individuals
with a clear choice between earlier retirement on a lower pension and later
retirement with a higher pension; (b) it facilitates coordination between the
state pension and individual private schemes; and (c) it contributes to
horizontal equity between individuals retiring earlier and individuals
retiring later. In the case of health care financing, long-term contribution
history is not important for determining entitlement. The main issue is
short-term free-riding by non-contributors. The notion of full entitlement
through public financial mechanisms gives the false impression that health
services are free.
18.   Collection of Contributions.  Present administrative methods make it
difficult to establish who should be making payments and, therefore, almost
impossible to control their contribution liability. Billions of forints are
owed to the SIA, with the prospect that only a small proportion will ever be
collected. This seriously compromises the financial viability of the Pensions
Fund and the Health Insurance Fund.
Size. Structure and Trends in Expenditure on Cash Benefits
19.   In 1990, total state spending on cash benefits and health care in
Hungary absorbed 22 percent of GDP (5.6 percent of GDP on health care and 16.4
percent on cash benefits). The two largest cash benefits were pensions (just
short of 10 percent of GDP) and family allowances (just over 3 percent). In
1981, spending on pensions was 7.8 percent of GDP and on family allowance it
was 1.9 percent. Total cash benefit spending was 12 percent of GDP;
including medical care the total in 1981 was 15.5 percent.
20.   The Tables on the two pages which follow show historical social
expenditure in Hungary and annual growth of social expenditure during the
1980s.
21.   All categories of social payments in Hungary have continued to grow
significantly, relative to GDP during the 1980s, with the exception of sick
pay and maternity benefits. In this respect, Hungary surpasses many other
low-income OECD countries in expenditure on pensions and other cash benefits
(mainly sick pay and family allowance). It remains considerably behind in the
share of total resources devoted to unemployment support and social
assistance.
22.   It is misleading, however, to compare the 1981 total social expenditure
of 15.5 percent with the 1990 figure of 21 percent. Consumer subsidies fell
from 8.7 percent of GDP in 1981 to 2 percent in 1990. The combined total of
spending on cash benefits, health care and consumer subsidies fell slightly
from 24.2 percent of GDP in 1981 to 23 percent in 1990. Much of the savings
in reduced subsidy went into higher pensions and family allowances. Spending
on these benefits increased over the decade by 2.1 percent and 1.2 percent of
GDP, respectively. To the extent that any conclusions can be drawn from such
aggregate data, the targeting of benefits on the most vulnerable groups
appears marginally to have improved. Several groups of cash benefits that are
particularly noteworthy will be described in greater detail below.



Table  1.4:              Umasry; social zapendit.ucaa
SIn Ft.
19ll     ISIS      loll     301l      lei0     l0g0      1981     3082      3563     lost      3081      3306     3001      los6     Iv00      3000
remolmas                             21.1      32.3     36.3      40.0     40.3      10.0     63.2      66.1     11.6      64.1     31.1      09.3    330.      330.0   316.4    202 
MAiMssa. b..fteiL                     6.5       5.1      48.       I a      0.3       6.3      6.3       0.1     30.1      33.6      11.6     32.6      33.3     36.1      23.4     24.5
Pea4ly all wo.6.4                               1.1      6.1       6.i     30.1      13.6     14.0      34.6     36.0      30.4     21.3      21.1      23.2     31.0    1S.6       63.2
Itcegaang,/M.taraitY bementits        31        3.3      3.6       3.3      3.6       3.3      3.3       3.0      3.0       1.9      2.0       2.6       2.0      3.1       4.3      4.0
Cbi1deaor  etlbow...                  3.6       3.1      3.8       1.1      3.1       3.6      3.1       3.1      3.4       3.4      2.6       2.6       2.0      1.0       2.1      3.2
Cbildaatg.eas                         6.6       6.   .6       0.0  6' .0              0.0      6.6       6.0      6.0       6.0      3.6       3.4       4.1      .1.       6.3     30.1
S"eteorablpe                          6.1       6.1      6.8 a    0.64      0.3       3.6      3.6       1.2      3.1       1.4      I.6;      3.6      3.1       13.       3.6      2.6
06&og saab ..O0.t ioommo I/           3.6       3.1      1.1       1.8      2.0       2.1      2.4       2.6      3.8       4.4      4.1       4.6       1.1      6.1       6 *     31.6
0/aregulesf 866.1a  sapprL        6.3                                            6.6                                             6.5      0.6       3.0       1.2      3.4       3.0
isgegelag ...101 aupett    6.03                                               6.2                                            8.6       0.6       0.3      0.6       3.6      3.1
Soplape.a  tenod beaefite la cask a/                                                                                                                              0.3       3.0      6.4
Seelel 6.g.n  - Gash                 41.4      14.1     10.6     64.1      15.4      61.0     63.6    302.4    III.&    121.6    131.3    346.3    362.0    206.3    2511.    331 1
5oc" lInas  in kInd JLW36.0                    35.0     43.0      40.1     53.6      66.3     14.8      83.0     60.2      01.6    309.0    311.1    326.1    113.1    lie 0    220.1
floslIb 2/                           30.6      31.6     32.6      14.3     36.0      23.6     21.6      30.1     32.6      31.0     40.8      4S1.      10.0     11.2      13.0     03.4
at abIch; Pbarnac.ul,ica  Subsidles                                                  1.4      6.4       1.2      6.4       0.1     32.6      33.0      31.8     10.2      30.3     20.1
Seoals servisee. .oer..nie            2.0       2.3      2.6       2.0      3.3       3.0      3.8       4.3      4.1       5.3      1.6       6.4       1.2      0.3       1.6      a 3
le.asetio. kindorgert..              j3.3      16.2     11.1      21.1     22.1      21.3     28.3      31.6     33.3      36.4     46.1      42.0      41.0     11.0      1.1.     04.0
Cottage. sprtaS 3/                    3.0       4.8      1.6       6.3      1.1       0.0      6.6      10.4     32.2      13.3     11.6      16.2      11.1     20.6      39.3     33.10
~~ teed bemaf~~in. ieiad 6/                                                                                                                                0.         .4      3 6
total 3ocial 1a.m.                   03.4      63.0    303.6    114.0    120.2   3133.3    368.1    614.4    203.0    223.2    246.)    261.2    291.3    331.8    436.0    5 4 .4A
Cm.gmm   shhegdg.   4/                                                               51.1     61.1      68.3      12.1     65.6     61.6      18.3      64.1     19.2      10 6     43.0 
Seaing Aaalotmee S/                                                                   1.6      .1.       6.1       1.3      1.6      6.1      34.1      38.4     26.8      84.1     60.6
gsomdiLuroe                                        ~~~~~~231.1    241.3    261.0    2610.6    206.4    323.6    311.6    382.2    441.6    160.2    614.2
ftrmi4m Ition:
TOtL&  Mooseheabd Incom.s           306.3    321.8    3139.1    3609.6    422.6    463.6    101.2    138.2   153.3    634.0    666.1    140.6    801.0    020.1   3066.1  1300.4
06t 1SIa of CearrM& FL)             452.1      .126.   502.6    620.1    662.3    321.6    116.1    641.6    666.4    616.4   3033.1   3668.6   1122.4   1400.1   1116.1   2041.61
Mt cola at 3083 lprices)           843.6    662.2    166.6    136.1    110.1    131.6    112.6    104.1    000.3    8213.    636.4    632.8    563.1    661.    6163.1    501.4
GD  "taster  166  - 106.61)         11.4      M6.      62.3      01.2     00.6      36.8    36s.6    106.1    132.6    130.3    326.2    130.6    343.1    362.6    106h.0    212.0
Sous.o: D4At f0r 1015-60 trow CO gLatiatigal Yearbook; foc 1080060. Sociat Security AdminisLraLIon. otber govenwasant official. mi Stott eastiease. for growth rates
mi poWroe,116s distribotlo.. oE ahVO, dash. son tables 11.3.-..
3/I"laido  famorol allaowee.
I/ 6004 Set 1.31t4. sfeeaaaim for p6svuecouLicals. threrpeutic .quipoat In 3191510. Data Oa Subsidies for 1650-611 grow IW Flscat AfgaIrs DepL. 'Social Sacursty
Saltem in k.gery'.
3/ Imgimda. expeodituro by eotorprisso upw Lo 3668.                                                                                                                                           .
8/ Wat up La 1661 fInn MUaiatq of loealLb A S.3ial Affairs. february 3080. The 13680-6 data from SAL freperaLion liseicon Novembr 10603 1300 ligure Iron Ministry of .
Fltecas.. leel'ades subsidies tat GM3 and dairy Ptoducts. kousehold senery. treumaporltlow. wat;er supply and eewerose* ad cull.uar. to make Cftqatble wiLh date (row
scterlo years. rental subsidies arm alsoe lcloded boer.
1/ BGet op to 3181 grow Ministry of leelik & S"oia Affairs, February 1060. The 13058-9 date gram SAL. Preparation Missio= Novemer 1080; 1900 ti&ute (can Hinistry of
FPimene. The figure foir 3666 includes FL It ble In intecest subsidy on pto-lOSS hbwsing looas sarrled vove (raw 1366. 'Aaslataacel ictudete tatorest. subsidy an
pre-2066 and Pont-loss bouaing loams MAd 'social poliGy' grants for bousima coustructioo. AmOrtisation of sttseLe-od dwelligSO to Included io Totai Social Incows in
bled.
S/ Cleated la 1668. Fund covore unem.ployment caMowseion. retraining allowance, public worst for job creation. early retirament. interest and Sisk guarantee tog loan.
tat sa"  Msrpemme               adogalet.Live so"L. ot faploysant Services. Vauth SIapleyeL Shebme. job croatie. subslies. L. ImvesLars. and spesial (usda for
cogisme of egitleal.e~oiet
36i..6-1 14148:48            WDM    MKI3E   (ActualL Values)



Table   1 .5:            M_aw:  Ommi aosmI  .S  social £.v.ed1i.a
isis    1ill        1lef     1016       Me1    1t0         1041      1940      3943      35        30 19 4     60        11       60       1iBI      390
r_ s630                                          12.4       0.3       6.S      13.0      0.0       4.0       1.6       4.3       3.s       2.0       4.4       2.3       2.6      -3.4       3.
Slakams UeMefl                                   -5.5      -0.6       5.6      -0.3     -0.4        3.0      0.6        .1      -3.3      -0.4       *.4      -4.0       0.2       1.0    -30.6
*-b, eUs..                                        Z.s       a.,      -o.i      13.0     22.1        2.1       s.s      a.i       4.0        s.,     -3.i      -0.3      si.;      3f.,      -I.e
fg.m.i/lmm.us tv    mli                           2.6     -2.0      -3.       -4.1      -1.*      -.0      -3.        -4.1      -0        -.0       35.3      -6.       34.0      -s.*      -0.0
tald..g. aIi...                                   0.4       5.4      -f.6      -4.0     -1.1      -0.1    -36.5       -1.4      -6.0    -22.3    -33.3        -1.0    -31.4       36.4      -0.6
1II.m   6..                                                                                                                                        £04.1      i3.4       0.6      -4.2       3.3
g.o.Iorebls,                                     -2.3       .1       -0.0       4.4      4.4      -4.0      13.S    -12.1       30.1       1.        3.0      -1.3    -23.5       -.        3 13.6
@.et go" &0.8.1 teem" 1/                         -6.1       6.1       2.5       2.3       1.0      0.1      10.3      20.3       6.0       0.0       0.5       P.5      23.0    -13.        02.1
I1.,'mat Fun  bemoli, is ceb 0/                                                                                                                                                  113 1    463.3
Smisi sa.mm  - ssh                                1.7       1.4       4 .2      8 5      9.3       2.1        3.1      4 o       5 1       3.        4.0       1.5      10.2       2.3       2.6
tota2 social1 1as.  . o d                        2.0        1.2      113.       1.6     16.3        1.4      1.2       2.4       2.6       5.4       3.0       1.4       2.5      -2.1       0.0
et maieba
EamiSh a/                                         1.4       5.4       0.1       4.6     38.1       30.3      0.0       1.2       3.0       0.0        .1       2.4      -0.5       31        3.4
et aftia:   sems         l. ImbaLdi.s                                                            13.1       0.4      11.2        .       IsA 16.6 3..                   6.2    -13.3        1.6
.I.t1 aet,.s.... .SumeRii                         0.6   a 6           1.0       0.0       1.     -12.2       12.0       4.1      0 1       5.1       4.0       5.0       1.1    -3.0.-   -1 S
Siusatlee  bi.de.gg.I.s                          -0.0       6.       135.2     -1.9      0.4        ,.4       5.0      0.4       2 a       4.0       3.0       0.3       0.4      1  3      -1.6
Callus.. *Fact. 3/                               11.4    13.1 3         1 6      .6      6.1       14.2       2.4     31.0       2.'       0.3       4.1      -6.2       2.4    -24.0    -13.1
OLOYMOSt W1  batl,      i 3m bLI                                                                                                                                                  43.4    102 I
total s.c4l31 3.m.                                5.3       1.3       12        6.2      12.2       4.1       4.0      3.1       4.4       4.2       3.0       3.5       6.6       03        I           I
Coomai      S.b*.1d1.s  4/                                                                          6.1      -2.5     -0.6     -5.1       -2.1        0.0      2.3    -38.1    -10.8    -45 0
tSamba   Asisan  31                                                                              -1t.0       24.2       1.       0.1    W13.        40.4        1.4     11.       0S1.     -0.4
*-.t1    B ela  Ezp.adlimtXs                                                                       5.4      2.0        2.2     -0o         2.0      0.1       1.8      -32        3 o4
t_   miss.e  tab&l 2.2.  Vii... dettted by N   d. tlat..
80-J-1 133:23:12  EM 1 .W1  (310.1 GrOwth 6.L1.)
t4



-45-                                 ANNEX 1
23.   Old Age. Disability and Survivors' Pensions.  Long-term cash benefits,
such as pensions, are the fastest growing public expenditure item financed
through the SIA. At the beginning of the 1960s, expenditure on pensions as a
percentage of GDP was only 2.5 percent. It quadrupled to reach 10 percent by
1990. This is well above the average expenditure share observed in the OECD
which is characterized by a much higher income level, a broader contribution
base and an older population age-structure than in Hungary. In 1990,
beneficiaries of all pension programs in Hungary amounted to 97.5 percent of
the total population aged 55 and over. The standard pensionable age is 60 (55
for women), but a significant number of individuals receive a pension earlier,
and often continue to work full-time with little or no loss of pension.
Similarly, recipients of invalidity pensions may combine continuing work with
receipt of benefits. At present, 40 percent of all newly granted pensions are
disability benefits.
24.   The main problems of the current pensions system can be summarized in
simple terms: pensions are too low, offered to too many, and begun too early.
The system, as it presently exists, is financially unsustainable. Its
effectiveness in maintaining minimum living standards for the elderly is
highly inadequate. The generosity of the terms on which work can be continued
after receipt of pension increases the incentive to take early retirement and
then hold employment. Early retirement is widespread and costly, and the
number of disability pensioners is high by western standards. By encouraging
workers to withdraw early from the labor force, the system imposes an
extremely high tax burden on employers and the active workforce. The total
number of pensioners presently represents one fourth of the population and one
half of the active labor force. The result is a poorly-targeted system with
many adverse incentives.
25.   There is an unsystematic relation between previous earnings, length of
service and the pension at the time it is first awarded. The lack of
indexation in earlier years means that the oldest pensioners have the lowest
real pension. These factors strengthen the case for maintaining individual
contribution records to facilitate a more closely actuarial relation between
contributions and benefits. The existing system of manual employment-based
records makes this administratively impossible. The administrative costs of
delivering long-term benefits through the mail is also substantial, and in
need of reform.
26.   Sick Pay.  The levels of compensated sick days per insured individual is
one of the highest in Europe, averaging 29 per year. The number and
proportion of the population on sick pay has increased by almost 40 percent in
the period 1960-87. Expenditure on sick pay has increased from 0.9 to
1.3 percent of GDP from 1960-90, with a strong increase in recent years. The
program covers, essentially, the whole population, including the self-employed
and is financed through the SIA. Employers pay for only the first 10 days of
illness (the remaining leave of up to one year is financed through the SIA).
Payments are calculated on the basis of the total average earnings in the
preceding calendar year, including wage supplements, overtime pay and
premiums. The replacement rate for short-term benefits like sick pay is high,
and access easy.
27.   Although health status of Hungarian workers is low, there is strong
evidence of abuse of sick pay in Hungary, attributable in part to the fact
that the financial burden for the benefit lies almost exclusively with the
social insurance system and also in part to widespread redundancies in



- 46 -                               ANNEX 1
industries. Three factors contribute to this trend: (a) the short duration of
sick leave for which employers are responsible provides no incentive to
encourage workers to stay on the Job; (b) the uniform social insurance
contributions paid by enterprises do not permit a risk rating for those with a
high sick leave record; and (c) the lack of sufficient rehabilitation and
retraining programs contribute to long-term disability.
28.   Maternity and Child Benefits.  Maternity benefits (lump sum payments at
birth) and paid maternity leave (maternity allowance, extended maternity
allowance, and child allowance) permit mothers to stay with their children for
up to three years after childbirth before returning to the labor force (ten
years if the child is handicapped). Mothers (and in special cases fathers)
are also entitled to sick pay for a limited period to care for a sick child.
Child care allowance provides a tax-free flat-rate payment until the child's
third birthday. Combined expenditure on pregnancy, maternity and child care
benefits totalled 1 percent of GDP in 1990 and is financed through the SIA.
At present, there is also no employer liability for maternal and paternal
payments.
29.   Family Allowance.  The importance of family allowance has increased
sharply since 1987 due to a marked rise in its real value, while the number of
families receiving this benefit has remained almost unchanged. In 1990
expenditure on family allowance was 1.9 percent of GDP. It is a universal
benefit financed through the state budget, not the SIA. A comparison of
universal child support schemes in Central and Eastern Europe with its western
neighbors indicates that Hungary has one of the most generous family allowance
schemes in Europe. Since the benefits are most important at the bottom of the
income distribution, its share of total income falls continuously as one moves
to higher deciles. Among the poorest ten percent of the population, the
benefit accounts for 20 percent of total income, indicating the important role
that this benefit plays in poverty relief for this income group.
30.   Social Assistance.  Like 18th and 19th century Poor Law provisions,
social assistance for the needy has become the discretionary competence and
financial responsibility of local governments in Hungary. Since unemployment
benefits have a finite duration, one source of poverty in the future will be
individuals and families whose entitlement to such benefits has expired and
whose local governments have not made satisfactory financial or administrative
arrangements for social assistance. Together with the removal of heavy
subsidies for basic commodities, this will create poverty in addition to that
arising from unemployment. Although expenditure on social assistance was
negligible in the past, these factors are now putting great pressure on
programs designed to provide such assistance in the future. Detailed combined
expenditure for social assistance by the MOW and local governments is not
readily available, making it difficult to assess the adequacy of existing
provisions.
31.   Unemployment Benefits.  The liberalization of prices and wages has
already disadvantaged those with few marketable skills and led to substantial
industrial and service-related unemployment. In 1989 unemployment was 1.5
percent in an active labor force of 4.9 million, 4 percent in 1990, and 7
percent in 1991. As in most OECD countries, unemployment benefits are



- 47 -                               ANNEX 1
financed though payroll taxes on employers and employees with a small State
budget contribution. The Ministry of Labor (MOL) expects to spend 3.8 percent
of GDP on unemployment related benefits through the Employment Fund and
Solidarity Fund in 1992.
Fiscal Crisis
32.   A major consequence of the move to a market economy has been stagnating
short-term output. In 1990, GDP fell by 4 percent and in 1991 by 5-7 percent.
The associated pressures on the government budget has two origins: (a) a rise
in demand for government expenditure to support income transfer programs and
debt servicing (national and international); and (b) a fall in real government
revenues due to a stagnating state enterprise sector and difficulties
collecting taxes from new private companies.
33.   Need for cost containment.  Two issues relating to cash benefits and the
need for cost controls are especially salient:
(a) Pensions are awarded at a younger age in Hungary than in most OECD
countries, and are often combined with continuing work. Raising the
retirement age and imposing a retirement test for the receipt of
pensions could save a significant part of the large expenditure on old
age and invalidity pensions without compromising the living standards
of the elderly or genuinely disabled (see pensions model in Annex 4).
(b) The Pensions Fund and the Health Insurance Fund report directly to
Parliament. Although their proposed budgets must be presented along
with the main government budget, the extent to which the government can
effectively impose macroeconomic controls on the two Funds remains in
some doubt. The possibility that one or both of the Funds could
introduce an enhanced benefits package in the face of restrictive
fiscal policies imposed by the Ministry of Finance cannot be entirely
ruled out.
34.   These and related factors have already had a significant impact on the
financial resources available to income support programs and financing for
health services.



- 48 -                              ANNEX I
B. Health Care Financing
Source of Financing and Eligibility
35.   Source of Financing.  During the previous socialist regime, all
Hungarians had a constitutional right to free health care. Health services
provided by the Ministry of Welfare (HOW), local governments, the parallel
services provided by other Ministries, and health services of public
enterprises were financed almost exclusively through the state budget (general
government tax revenues). Extrabudgetary and out-of-pocket financing played a
small role in the financing of health services. The Figure below shows the
source of health care financing in Hungary during the previous socialist
regime.
Figure 1.3: SOURCES OF HEALTH CARE FINANCING IN HUNGARY
DURING SOCIALIST REGIME
Public (MOW)                        Private
(80%)                            (20% estimated)
MOW    Parallel   Occupational  Out-of-pocket  Insurance
(60%)    (15%) )       (5%)         (20%)          (0%)
Ministries Enterprises
Army
Police                 <<-
etc
F                      l
Budget         Extra-budgetary  <<«
(?X)                   (?X)
36.   With creation of the consolidated SIF in 1989,  financing for health
care was transferred from the state budget to a single contributory social
insurance levy (44 percent from employers and 10 percent from employees) used
to pay for pensions, other cash benefits and health services.5/ In 1992,
the consolidated social insurance contribution was increased to 55 percent and
split into two: (a) a Pensions Fund contribution of 25.5 percent for employers
and 6 percent for employees; and (b) a Health Insurance Fund contribution of
19.5 percent for employers and 4 percent for workers. The self-employed are
51 see section C for details on the source of financing and outlays of the SIF.



-49 -                               ANNEX 1
liable for both of these contributions which encourages non-declaration of
income.
37.   The HIF provides the financing for 66 percent of recurrent health care
expenditures transferred through local governments to health care providers
with the MOW financing the remaining 19 percent. Public health services,
medical education and national institutions are financed through the MOW
budget. Nearly 80 percent of total expenditure remains public, with 20
percent private expenditures covering payments for over-the-counter drugs (Ft
7 billion in 1990) and gratuities (Ft 12 billion in 1990)._/ The central
MOW budget provides financing for most major capital intensive projects such
as hospital construction and expensive equipment. Smaller investments and
maintenance and repairs are financed through the recurrent budget.
38.    Beginning in 1993, a self-governing Assembly of 60 members
representing equally, employer and employee interests, will be responsible for
each of the two Funds (PF and HIF). An Interim Board of Supervisors was
appointed in February 1992. The fate of the SIA as the executive body for the
two Funds remains uncertain, with the possibility that there will be an
independent administration for each of the two Funds with shared services for
contributions collection, eligibility determination and computer facilities.
True autonomy and financial responsibility of the two Funds also remains
uncertain. The preamble to the 1991 Social Security Act states as an objective
the establishment of a social insurance system which will, inter alia, ensure
"that the state assumes the required liabilities ...n.
39.   With the introduction of a health insurance card this year, eligibility
became conditional on actual or deemed contributions. Non-contributors and
most other categories of the population continue, however, to be eligible
through special transfer payments by the government. Although contributions
are not related to use or level of services provided, a new "basket of health
care goods" is being designed which will alter the range of services
traditionally covered.
Analysis of Expenditure
40.   The following section analyzes the structure of health care expenditure
in Hungary relative to GDP and in absolute terms (US$) compared with western
countries. It then traces the evolution of expenditure over time. Finally,
it provides an analysis of the major recurrent and capital expenditure
categories.
41.   Relative and Absolute Levels of ExRenditure.  Total health care
expenditure in Hungary for 1990 has been estimated at Ft 124.90 billion or 5.6
percent of GDP, excluding expenditure made on health care by other Ministries
and enterprises. As a middle-income country, with an estimated per capita
income of US$2,780 in 1990 for a population of 10.6 million, this would be
equivalent to US$164 per capita at an exchange rate of Ft 72 per US$.
42.   Total health care expenditure in Hungary relative to GDP is similar to
that of several other Eastern European countries, but in the low range of
expenditure reported by the OECD, excluding Turkey. In absolute values,
j These gratuities are, essentially, under-the-counter "black market" payments to health care
professionals and institutions in return for preferential treatment (jumpinS the queue, selection of
specialists and special drugs)



- 50 -                               ANN
health care expenditure in Hungary is much lower than that observed in most
Western European countries.
43.   Cross national comparisons based on official exchange rates are
meaningless unless adjusted for purchasing power parity (PPP). Although this
information is not readily available in Central and Eastern Europe, adjusted
for PPPs, health care expenditure in Hungary would be closer to US$500 per
capita. The Table below demonstrates a PPP adjusted cross national comparison
of health care expenditure for 1987.
Table 1.6:  CROSS NATIONAL COMPARISONS OF
HEALTH CARE EXPENDITURE FOR 1987
Expenditure               Per Capita               as X GDP
National     US$   US$ppp
Eastern   Hungary   HF   6,120       130    N/A           5.3
Europe    Poland    Zl  25,544        97    N/A           5.7
CSFR    Kcs   2,445       88    N/A           5.8
Western  Austria                             982          8.4
Europe   Germany                           1,093          8.1
Sweden                          1,233          9.2
OECD:       High                           2,051         11.2
Low                             361          5.3
Turkey                             148          3.5
44.   Trends in Total Health Care ExRenditure.    During the late 1970s to
mid-1980s, total expenditure on health services provided by the MOW increased
both in nominal and constant values.   It also increased relative to GDP (3
percent per annum more than GDP over the past five years) and general government
expenditure. This growth slowed down dramatically in 1990, and expenditure on
health care (recurrent and capital) subsequently experienced a decrease in real
terms in 1991.
45.   Changes in health care expenditure in constant values over time should,
however, be interpreted with caution because adjustments based on GDP deflators
or consumer price indices do not reflect price trends in the health sector
accurately, nor demographic trends or changes in the volume of services provided.
Part of the recent increase in health care expenditure relative to GDP was due
to a 4 percent decline in real national product in 1990.  The present growth
pause is important because health spending tends to react with a lag to changes
in economic activity. The current recession suggests that the health sector will
face severe constraints over the next few years. The Table below illustrates the
evolution in health care expenditure during the 1980s.
46.   Recurrent Expenditures.  During the 1980s, the most significant recurrent
expenditure categories in the health sector were salaries at about 30 percent and
drugs at about 15 percent. In most western countries salaries comprise more than
60 percent of recurrent expenditures and public expenditures on drugs less than
20 percent.   Other categories under material expenses such as food, energy,
services and maintenance make up a much smaller proportion of recurrent



-51 -                                ANNEX 1
expenditures.    Removal  of  subsidies,  deregulation  of  newly  privatized
pharmaceutical importers, manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers, and
liberalization of prices in Hungary have led to a marked rise in expenditure on
pharmaceuticals, which now comprise 30 percent of total expenditure. Imported
medical equipment and high technology have followed the same trend.
Table 1.7: NATIONAL HEALTH EXPENDITURES, HUNGARY 1985-1990
(Ft billion in current prices)
% of
I Personal Health Care              1985        1987       1990      total
1990
(a) Public
Outpatient primary                    3.26       3.82        9.78       7.80
Outpatient specialist                 3.20       3.84        9.19       7.40
Inpatient                            14.72      18.84       39.02      31.20
Ambulance                             0.84       0.91        1.85       1.50
Pharmaceutical subsidies             12.03      15.85       27.56      22.10
Other services                        0.59       1.80        2.54       2.00
(b) Private
Out of pocket cost                    9.63      11.52       19.00      15.20
All personal care                    44.26      54.59      108.94      87.20
II Public Health                      1.25       1.73        2.26       1.80
III Renovation, Research and
Education
Renovation                            2.30       2.15        2.33       1.90
Research                              0.56       0.70        1.08       0.90
Education                             0.69       0.77        1.59       1.30
All current expenditure              49.99      59.96      116.20      93.00
Investment*                           5.86       7.95        8.70       7.00
Total health expenditure             54.95      67.91      124.90    100.00
GDP (billions)                     1034.00    1228.00    2079.00
Current health expenditure as
% of GDP                              4.70       4.90        5.60
Total health expenditure as X
of GDP                                5.30       5.50        6.00
* Excluding small and second hand equipment met from current funds.
Source: Ministry of Welfare.



- 52 -                             ANNEX 1
47.    In most countries, apart from the doctors, health workers are
relatively low paid. In Eastern Europe this is even more pronounced so that
the proportion of health expenditures in labor intensive areas - primary care
and hospitals for example -is artificially depressed. Demands for a catch-up
in salaries in the health sector, as compared with the industrial sectors,
will contribute to increasing labor costs in the near future. This has
already started with a near doubling in the income of general practitioners
this year under a new capitation-based remuneration scheme. Specialists are
pressing for fee-for-services in their non hospital- based offices and
performance-based case mix reimbursement of hospitals (DRGs).2/ The
allocation of health care resources between institutional and ambulatory care
influences many countries' health care expenditure. The Table below shows the
composition of health care expenditures in selected Eastern and Western
European countries as well as non-European OECD countries.
Table 1.8: COMPOSITION OF TOTAL HEALTH EXPENDITURES
SELECTED COUNTRIES, 1987-1990 jU
Proportion of exDenditure on:
Health     Institutional   Ambulatory   Pharmaceuticals
Country          Expenditure        Care           Care
as Z GDP
Eastern Europe
Hungary               6.0           31.2           18.7            27.7
Poland                5.4            na             na             20.0
CSFR                  5.8            na             na             21.5
Western Europe
Austria               8.4           30.0           21.4            11.6
Germany               8.9           35.4           26.0            20.7
Denmark               6.5            na            31.3             9.5
France                8.6           44.6           30.0            16.7
Other OECD
Australia             7.7           49.3           23.4             8.3
Canada                8.7           49.5           22.8            11.6
UK                    5.8            na             na             11.3
USA                  11.4           46.7           29.8             8.5
vI Diagnostic Related Groups (DRGs), according to which hospitals would be reimbursed retrospectively based
on the number snd type of cases treated.
j/  Hungary 1990, Australia 1988-89, most other countries 1988.



-53 -                               ANNEX 1
48.   Capital Expenditure.  The capital investment budget for health care has
dropped relative to GDP, both relative to the total budget and in constant
values during the late 1980s. The Table below shows capital expenditure as a
percent of total public expenditure on health care for 1988 for selected
Central and Eastern European countries as well as the OECD.
Table 1.9:  PUBLIC CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AS X OF TOTAL
PUBLIC EXPENDITURES ON HEALTH SELECTED COUNTRIES, 1988
CountrY                    X of total expenditure
Eastern Europe
Hungary                               9.2
Poland                               11.1
CSFR                                 10.5
Western Europe
Austria                               6.2
Germany                               5.5
Denmark                                na
France                                4.4
Other OECD
Australia                             4.3
Canada                                3.9
UK                                    4.6
USA                                   1.3
Sources: World Bark reports on Hungary (1991), Poland (1992) and CSFR (1991):
OECD Health Data File, 1990.
49.   Hungarian hospitals are crowded with an average floor space of 27
square meters per bed compared with western norms of about 80-100 square
meters per bed (and nearly 115 square meters in Australia). Most hospitals
are old, with an average age estimated at 48 years, and 60 percent are in need
of demolition, reconstruction or renewal. The level of medical technology is
low.



-54 -                                ANNEX 1
50.   In the past, construction costs represented the most significant
sub-category under capital expenditure, comprising 60-70 percent of total
capital expenditure. In recent years, heavy equipment and high technology
that depend on convertible currency imports have consumed an increasing
portion of the investment budget and, in some cases, become too expensive to
procure. In real terms, spending on new buildings and equipment fell by 20
percent in 1990 and spending on renovation almost halved. The Table below
shows expenditures on construction and major equipment:
Table 1.10: EXPENDITURE ON RENOVATIONS, CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPMENT
HUNGARY, 1986-1990
(Ft billion)
1986           1989           1990
Renovations                         2.32            3.06           2.33
New construction                    5.19            5.27           6.73
Equipment                           2.01            1.72           1.67
Land and infrastructure             0.52            0.13           0.30
Total                              10.04           10.18          11.03
Source Ministry of Welfare (1986,89,90,91) : World Bank 1991, (1987,88)



Table  1  11: N  -gsiy H.      iani Wait EaFadliur. 1950-12
(in miNlime of to"a)
ir        i          m    895)js           j    Em    im    Em                          sI   1989   1!0   nu                      MU
I Prc.g..a baakh (cas (a.b)               22124     25117    38141    31296        16909      44251     4590       34$61     w6o        31430    305947    848l0"    171500
*. tub                                    29164     22261     24261      27135     3349       34630     16390     41041      1202)     *4906      59940    11119    343100
Oa58e.I pdma.y  cat
(1.8.l                                 1832       1596      2102       2712      2941       1211      3S18      3581       4621 3     701       9150     11901      1920
(k (I. 111944                                     21111     2274      2662       2172      3200      I1S1       1317       4715      614        91"      12642      I1172
ILvf&8   sankta (l l 31                  9135     l029      8817      182058     83234      84128     353 I      8463     211320     2966       39M       4950       70280
Am_bI_es  (1.8.4)                         S23       570       64         737       112         31       559        914      125        178163    34         2942
Oth# S1USilck PdtvcilvG
(1.1.5.                                 271       299        322       S51        I44       192      8101       179S      1909       2012      235        38171     4130
ntosvaccualca h(.ubsidy8                 1436      6440      186         451      94612       ISZUS   8I144      851446    8372       89244     2154      340        33000
0( 4f-#P"     s Capcediearcs 21           15U0      610       710        5110      6150      92        8OS0170     120      14041     16215      39001     24709      300So
M. ruec bhcal  a*8viIica                   ISO       8204       8Soo      1031      1121       2121      140S       1729      1249       1741      2217      3393       4929
PMIk baIikJcpldm.ikgical
(3.3)                                      40        6"0       148        766       791        5SI       938       pal       1014      8430       2144      3216       4")
0MU V4k bl at  (1.4 mi_a
1.4. 18bfoach.dIq8av1sam                  IOS6       144       19         201       314       402        474       748        21)       181        Its        in        246 
U. Retsarch, 0vea81a6. cd.iSthat           2274      2103      3117       2717      38111      37        31564      3463      4464      44S0       4993        0173     3170
Ockat *werkaul &ad *   ac.aioa
(1.4.1)                                  1460      1730      2320       3a40      2030       200       2          2810      220       2107       232       2012       21S
lslach (2)                                334        233       m         314        491       S5         687       497       7183        94       4117      8830         3 l
I4Ad8moiscaaiam(3)                        454        583       142        578       I9"       656       46         10        811n      3869       1467      359       2821
3     _mad    Im _n 4 (4)                   26        27        28         30        is         34        40        44         54         0        122       la2        171
Ndail_lah   cis    ad.ew.a ("HE)
OU4IMIWMI                               29004      32562     342l    3n05         43i89     4101         9 S"29  59173     1811    8103316    16197    149534   18410
O .U*EIl Camim                                     32562     3351      34026      1429      312        352       36844      3O559     44591    43574
ODF  a4b_am O fI am ma3ist                721        150       545       859        91        1034      8on        1224      14S1      1310       200
0PCta C     8 (lol-JOG)                    751       773      7195        *00        22        s89       532       114        "S        5417       n30
OPl im (8. *A da)                         8o018     1070183   80788      10700     80679      30411     80640     10621
1HE (so U ODP   ncai)                      4.0       4.2       4.3        44        44         4.7       50        4.9        49        60         5.
HUE  i6   I}m)                           2706       3048       3355     3613       4042      464        S0W       5645
8.ma  Mdda  of Said ANaII  fd Sita
3/kivivw" 3. psaintes  fm!ft  S. Sanilmi uame*  g.mmm s" o. e"3 budneh*l c8.m85ca68acol"    a.
BM"  OM  room& gMea Amboy bmo  radw
210101-.f1POCId agcmdIIucs uS0 Amid Os  owm a ds. wims eaeU  rAlkiscreassa b.Itih cu'g gorn 895580g 899.
31 C:9  In igmmosc so giw gaa M aaalm 4 ago   9.3 psu.auho 6.895.



- 56 -                             ANNEX 1
C. Review of Statutory Assets and Liabilities
(ODerational and Functional)
51.   The following section provides a review of the statutory assets and
liabilities (operational and functional) of the Social Insurance
Administration (SIA) as of December 31, 1991 and related statements of
statutory income and costs (operational and functional) in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing.1/ Operational financial statements
refer to the administration of the SIA, while financial statements refer to
activities relating to the collection of contributions, payment of benefits
and investments. Financing for operational activities is provided through
annual transfers from the functional budget as provided by law.
52.   The review was prepared in accordance with the following Hungarian
accounting regulations:2,/
(a) Historic Cost Convention;
(b) State Regulations for State Budget Organizations;
(c) SIA's Internal Accounting Regulations
(d) Law 11 (1975) together with subsequent modifications
53.   Cash is stated at amounts recorded on the bank statement or on hand.
Items in transit are included in the cash in transit account in the statutory
financial statements.
54.   Legislation enacted in October 1991 requires SIA to be self-funding
beginning January 1, 1993. This legislation provides for the transfer of
State capital assets to SIA with assumed value of approximately Ft 300
billion. SIA had a deficit on a cash basis of approximately 22 billion HUF
for the year ended December 31, 1991. In addition, as of December 31, 1991
there was Ft 49.1 billion in contributions receivables. A substantial portion
of these related to debtors in the process of bankruptcy, rescheduled payments
and amounts over one year past due, with little chance for recovery. In 1991,
SIA wrote off receivables totalling Ft 9.2 million owing from 296
contributors. The amount of uncollectible contributions receivable is,
therefore, significant at the present time with serious implications for the
future financial viability of the two Funds. The source of future financing
to cover the resulting budget shortfall is uncertain unless covered by
constitutional guarantees.
1 This Annex is boaed on a draft version of an ongoing formal audit being conducted by Arthur Anderson
(Hungary).
21 These regulations do not conform with International Accounting Standards in several respects: accounting
for receivables; valuation of inventory; fixed assets and inveetments; disclosure of commitments; and
presentation of cash flow statementx and other appropriate notes.



57 -                              ANNEX I
Table 1.1Z: OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL STATEMENT
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES FOR 1991
HUF (°°°)
Assets,
Tangible fixed assets, net                1,151,342
Construction in progress                    183,553
Subtotal                        1,334,895
Inventory                                   235,101
Cash                                      1,330,503
Investments                                   3,150
Receivables                                 124,329
Subtotal                        1,693,083
Total Assets                              3,027,978
Liabilities
Fixed asset control accounts                 67,588
Accrued liabilities                         130,893
Uncleared receipts                          624,478
Other settlements                            73,315
Total Liabilities                         2,231,169
Accumulated income reserve                  124,434
Other reserves                              676,096
Total                                       800,530
Retained loss for the year                   -3,721
Total Liabilities and Reserves            3,027,978



- 58 -                              ANNEX 1
Table 1.13: OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL STATEMENT
INCOME AND EXPENDITURES FOR 1991
HUF (000)
Income
Funds allocated from SIA                    4,292,570
Funds from the State budget and
other State bodies                          673,488
Use of reserves                               413,424
Other income                                   82,602
Total Income                                5,462,084
Expenditure
Wages                                       1,736,654
Employer's social security contributions    776,890
General and administrative costs            1,576,890
Other expenses                                287,852
Regions' settlement account                   865,809
Recoverable VAT                               252,556
Sundry expenses                                 3,993
Less: Costs relating to own risk activity   -24,308
Total Expenditure                           5,476,336
Retained income, excluding own risk activities           -14,252
Net income on own risk activities                        10,531
Retained income for the year                              -3,721



-59 -                                ANNEX I
Table 1.14: FUNCTIONAL FINANCIAL STATEMENT
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES FOR 1991
HUF (000)
ASSETS
Cash at bank                                          5,855,639
Other cash deposits                                     163,621
Petty  cash                                             127,608
Cash in transit                                         586,225
Total Cash                                            6,733,093
Bonds                                                14,783,059
Short term investments                                  170,055
Investments purchased from the State                  1,900,000
Other shares                                            435,874
Total Investments                                    17,288,988
Contributions receivable                             49,148,385
Prepayments                                           9,572,937
Financing   settlements                                 839,208
Total other assets                                   10,412,145
Total Assets                                         83,582,611
LIABILITIES
Accounts payable                                        695,617
Accrued income tax                                       50,815
Other creditors                                        -147,379
Uncleared receipts                                    1,250,836
Benefit and service prepayments                      -2,532,076
Total Creditors                                        -682,187
Other settlements with the State                     -2,722,404
Bank loan                                             9,455,000
Total Loans                                           6,732,596
Accumulated income                                   34,131,707
Reserve for investments                              13,899,997
Reserve for  finance                                 32,245,624
Reserve for shares                                    2,335,874
Total Reserves                                       82,613,202
Deficit for the year                                 -5,081,000
Total Liabilities and Reserves                       83,582,611



- 60 -                               ANNEX 1
Table 1.15: FUNCTIONAL FINANCIAL STATEMENT
INCOME AND EXPENDITURE FOR 1991
HUF (000)
Income
Contributions                                        455,798,771
Investment income                                      7,142,813
Technical transfers                                  581,047,229
Payments from reserves                                   347,017
Total Income                                       1,044,335,830
Expenditure
Benefits                                             356,821,107
Finance of health care                                88,433,870
Payments from reserves for sport activities              265,572
Payments from reserves for illness prevention             81,278
Office for pre-pension payments                            2,877
Subtotal Benefits                                    445,604,704
Medical Expert Institute operational costs               408,571
Regional Directorate operational costs                 3,883,999
Subtotal Operational Costs                             4,292,570
Pension payments                                     266,300,000
Branch excess money                                  225,805,035
State funded payments for rehabilitation               2,168,482
State budget payments for family care                 85,223,250
State budget payments for additional pension           1,550,462
Subtotal Technical Transfers                         581,047,229
Interest on investments purchased from the State    2,972,327
Interest on family care loan                           3,500,000
Redemption of family care loan                        12,000,000
Transfers to reserves                                 18,472,327
Total Expenditure                                  1,049,416,830
Deficit for the year                                  -5,081,000



-61 -                                ANNEX 1
lable 1.16: FINANCIAL RATIOS OF SIA, 1991
Cash/Total assets                          8.06X
Investments/Total assets                  20.68X
Contributions receivable/Total assets   58.80X
Other assets/Total assets                 12.46X
Operational costs/Income                   0.41X
Transfers to reserves/Income               1.77X
Contributions receivable/Income (days) 17.0
Cash/Payments (days)                       2.0
Deficit/Income                            -0.49X






-63 -                              ANNEX 2
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSIONS ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
THE OECD EXPERIENCE:
Cash Benefits and Health Care Financing
1.   The OECD experience does not offer Hungary a clear model from any
specific country, nor a target level of expenditure. Rather it provides a
menu of choices from which to select or mix-and-match desirable features. The
first part of this Annex provides a brief description of some common features
relative to cash benefits and health care financing. The second part offers a
more detailed explanation and justification of these features.
2.   Common Features.  Though the OECD economies vary greatly in their
history, culture and economic and political institutions, there are important
similarities.
(a)  The state has a major role in economic affairs, through the
regulation of private markets, through public funding, and through
public production of some services. In the mid-1980s government
spending in the USA was about 35 percent of GDP, in Germany nearly 47
percent of CDP, and in the Netherlands 57 percent.
(b)   Public spending on income transfers and medical care in the wealthier
countries is substantial and rises with the level of national income
(the higher the GDP, the higher the public spending, the USA being an
exception). Public expenditure on pensions in the mid-1980s was in
the region of 10 percent of GDP in Germany, the Netherlands and
Sweden. Average health care expenditure in 1990 was in the range of
7.5 percent of GDP. Combined spending on these items ranged from 11
percent of GDP in Japan to a high of 30 percent in the
Netherlands .1/
(c)  Most fully-articulated state pensions schemes are financed through
public funds on a Pay-As-You-Go (PAYG) basis, complemented by private
schemes. Most comprehensive health services are financed through
prepayment schemesz/, complemented by private health insurance and
out-of-pocket direct payments.
3.   Recent developments in economic theory both explain and justify the
substantial role of the state in cash benefits and health care financing.
v For further detail and a survey of the welfare state in the OECD, sea Nicholas Barr, 'Economic Theory
and the Welfare State: A Survey and Interpretation', Journal of Economic Literature, 30 (2), pp. 741-
803, June 1992.
2 Prepayment refers to financial arrangements made prior to the ucs of services through general taxation,
compulsory social insurance or supplemental voluntary insurance.



- 64 -                              ANNEX 2
There are two sets of explanations for the extensive role of the state which
apply to Hungary just as to any other economy which wishes to rely
substantially on private markets: government failure, and market failure.
4.    Government Failure Arguments.  This school of thought points to
electoral pressures. The low-income groups in virtually all countries are
more numerous than the rich, and so can outvote them. The resulting electoral
pressures, it is argued, apply to cash benefits and health care financing,
though they are more evident for some benefits (notably family allowance and
pensions) than others. With PAYG pensions the pressure is for higher
pensions. With funded schemes, pressures arise, particularly in the face of
inflation, forcing countries progressively away from their original funded
intentions back to PAYG. Similarly with third party (or prepayment) of health
services the pressure is for more comprehensive benefits and increasing
remuneration.
5.    Market Failure Arguments.  A second, and more recent explanation, which
applies particularly to the dominant role of social insurance in the OECD
(i.e., funding of cash benefits and/or health care through state-organized
contributions by workers and employers) is that it is an efficient response to
pervasive market failures in such areas as cash benefits and health care
financing. The core of the argument notes the major properties of private
markets that relate to efficiency, and goes on to observe that these
properties rest on three sets of assumptions which may be prone to failure:
(a)   perfect market (excludability, cQmpjetition and unimpaired
competition);
(b)   the absence of technical problems such as externalities and public
goods; and
(c)   oerfect information.
6.    The problems resulting from the failure of the first two assumptions are
well-known and have a long history. Understanding of the ill-effects of
imperfect information is much more recent. Noteworthy in the present context,
imperfect information can make private insurance inefficient or impossible.
Social insurance may, therefore, have a role in efficiency, independent of any
distributional goal. Information problems both explain and justify the extent
of state intervention in the areas of cash benefits and health care financing.
7.    A particular problem in the case of pensions is the post-retirement
inflation risk, with which funded schemes do not cope well..2/ If inflation
is coupled with falling output, PAYG and funded schemes face problems.
However, if output remains constant, inflation Rer se is not a problem for
PAYG, since wages generally keep pace with inflation; thus the yield of wage-
based contributions rises in line with inflation, making it possible to
maintain the real level of pensions. Funded schemes do not have this
i/ For a survey, *se Zvi bodis, 'Pensions as Retirement Incom Insurance, Journal of Economic Literature,
Vol. 28, 1990, pp. 28-49.



- 65 -                              ANNEX 2
property. Private health insurance schemes suffer from much the same problem
as well as exclusion clauses during old age and chronic illness.
8.    Because of the risk of inflation, as well as other factors, private
pension schemes in western Europe exhibit four characteristics. They may be
oRtional, in that the individual can choose to remain entirely within the
state scheme. They are supplemental, in that they replace only part of the
state pension. They are constrained in two ways: individual choice is
limited; and the conduct of pension companies is regulated to protect
consumers. Finally, virtually all private pension schemes are subsidize in
that they enjoy (usually substantial) tax advantages. In addition, because of
the uninsurable inflation risk, the state may give private pensions at least a
partial guarantee.V/  One way in which the state can help private schemes
with the uninsurable inflation risk is through indexed government bonds. In
this case the underlying pension is organized on a funded basis, the inflation
guarantee is PAYG.
A. Cash Benefits in the OECD
9.    The organization of income transfers.  Organizations and institutions
vary widely. Australia and New Zealand have no social insurance fund and no
social insurance contributions. Almost all pensions, benefits and allowances
are income tested.
10.   The UK has a single social insurance contribution, financing a single
social insurance fund for all benefits for the whole country. The social
insurance fund, which receives no budgetary transfer, pays inter alia, for
unemployment benefits, sick pay, maternity benefits, pensions, benefits for
invalidity and survivors. Benefits like family allowance and social
assistance (means-tested benefits of last resort), are tax funded, and are not
paid out of the social insurance fund, though their administration is
integrated with that of social insurance benefits. The entire system is under
the control of the Department of Social Security and hence subject to overall
fiscal control.
11.   In the USA, unemployment benefits are run by states and based on
employer contributions. The state schemes receive a federal subsidy, however,
and so remain subject to an element of central control. The US pension scheme
is federal: workers and employers pay contributions which go into the social
security fund. Expenditure in the early 1980s (low by international
standards) was 4.5 percent of GDP. Though there has been political
controversy recently about the fund's growing surplus, the revenue and
expenditure of the fund are subject to control by the US Treasury.
12.   Countries in western Europe sometimes have single social insurance
funds, sometimes multiple funds (though the historical trend over the century
has been for the consolidation of multiple funds and their administration).
/ In the UK, for instance, approved private schemes are indemnified against inflation of more than 3
percent per year.



- 66 -                              ANNEX 2
There is variation in the extent to which funds are self-financing or receive
some support from the state budget.
13.   Administration also varies.  It can be by the state at central or local
levels. Alternatively, it can be provided by private-sector institutions such
as friendly societies or trades unions (e.g. unemployment compensation in
Sweden, medical care in Germany). In such cases the private sector is acting,
in effect, as an agent of the state.
14.   Despite these wide differences, there are major strategic similarities.
(a)   As discussed above, state spending on income transfers is substantial
in all OECD countries except Turkey.
(b)   Total spending of the social security fund(s) is constrained in all
countries by central government fiscal and monetary policy.
(c)   The payment out of a single fund for both health services and health-
related income transfers, was common in the late nineteenth and early
twentieth centuries, and remains the model in much of western Europe.
The Anglo-American model, has abandoned this approach, not least
because of the very different administrative needs of the two types
of benefit, and separates the funding and administration of cash
benefits from those of health services.
15.   Pension regimes.  All western European countries have a fully-
articulated state-run Pay-as-You-Go (PAYG) pension scheme (i.e., a scheme in
which current benefits are financed by current contributions), generally
financed by earnings-related social insurance contributions. State pension
spending is a substantial part of GDP throughout the OECD, complemented by
private pensions, usually funded (i.e., paid out of an accumulated reserve),
and frequently run on occupational lines. Similarly, most of the countries in
Latin America have well-established pension systems, mostly run on PAYG
lines.5/
16.   State PAYG schemes, particularly outside the OECD, have had financing
problems, mainly because benefit levels have risen to levels which create
macroeconomic problems. This has led to a search for better ways of financing
pensions and, in particular, to advocacy of funded pensions as a solution.
17.   State schemes organized on a funded basis, however, have not fared well.
The conclusion of an international survey is that they, offer powerful
evidence that this option may only invite squandering capital funds in
wasteful, low-yield investments which should give pause to anyone proposing
similar accumulations elsewhere.j/
. See William McGreevey, Social Security in Latin America: Issues and ODtions for the World Bank,
Washington DC: The World Bank, 1990, Chapters 4 and 6.
/ Jean-Jacques Rose (ed.), The World Crisis in Social Security, Paris: Fondation National. d'Economis
Politique, and San Francisco: Institute for Contemporary Studies, 1982, p. 212.



-67 -                                 ANNEX 2
18.   A study in Latin America concluded:
In general, pension reserves have not been invested in [Latin America
and the Caribbean] in instruments with the highest economic returns;
social insurance institutions have not been designed to play the role of
financial intermediaries, their personnel lack experience in this field
and no investment plans have been formulated. Capital markets are
poorly developed in the region and inflation has had a pervasive effect
on the value of the reserves.1/
19.   Of eight representative countries in the region, only Chile had a
significant positive real return. Most of the rest "had negative yields as low
as -21 percent annually, hence decapitalizing the reserves."jI
20.   Private funded schemes exist in all OECD countries as a complement to
continued high spending on state schemes. Their performance has been
sensitive to overall economic developments. In particular, they are sensitive
to the effects of unanticipated inflation. Private pensions also require
extensive regulation which, even in countries with long experience of such
financial markets, is not without its problems.2./
7  Carmelo Mesa-Lago, Investment Portfolio of Social Insurance/Pension Funds in Latin America and the
Caribbean: SiLnificance, Composition and Performance, Report No. IDP-094, Waahington DC: The World
Bank, 1990, p. i.
. Carmelo Mesa-Lago, Economic and Financial Aspects of Social Security in Latin America and the Caribbean-
Tendencies. Problems and Alternatives for the Year 2000, Report No. IDP-095, Washington DC: The World
Bank, 1990, pp. i-ii.
E.g. , the savings and loan problems, insider trading, junk bonds, and the like in the USA, and the
collapse of the Maxwell empire in the UK.



- 68 -                              ANNX 2
Table 2.1: PUBLIC SPENDING ON PENSIONS, CASH BENEFITS AND HEALTH CARE
AS PERCENTAGES OF GDP IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES, 1983
Public       Public          Public         Publicly-Funded
Spending     Spending        Spending       Cash Benefits
on Pensions  on Cash on      Medical and    Medical
Benefits     Care'           Careb
Z of GDP     X of GDP        X of GDP         X of GDP
SELECTED OECD
COUNTRIES
Canada                3.7          10.5            4.8             15.3
Denmark               8.0          16.2            5.4             21.5
France                9.5          21.0            6.6             27.5
Germany               9.7          15.4            6.0             21.4
Italy                 8.2          17.9            5.5             23.4
Japan                 3.0           6.1            4.4             10.5
Netherlands          11.2          24.8            6.9             31.7
Norway                7.5          12.7            6.5             19.2
Portugal              5.7           8.9            0.3              9.2
Spain                 7.3          12.9            4.0             16.9
Sweden               10.4          18.6            8.2             26.8
UK                    5.9          13.1            4.9             17.9
USA                   4.5           9.4            3.1             12.5
MEMORANDUM ITEM
Polandc               7.9          15.3            4.9             20.2
CSFRc                17.5           5.0           22.5
Hungaryd              9.9          16.4            4.6             21.0
SOURCE: Twelfth International Inquiry, 1981-83, Th. Cost of Social Security, (Genova: ILO, 1988),
Comparative Tables.
NOTES:
a The figures refer only to publig medical spending; total medical spending
is higher, often substantially so, because of private medical spending.
b Figures may not add up exactly because of rounding.
c Figures refer to 1991.
d Figures refer to 1990.



- 69 -                              ANNEX 2
B. Health Care Financing in the OECD
Role of the State
21.   The public sectors of all western developed countries have become
increasingly involved in financing health care during the past century through
regulations, subsidies and direct provision of services. In this respect,
western countries can be divided into two groups. Thirteen OECD countries
have statutory or constitutional provisions for universal entitlement to a
comprehensive range of health services.1Q/ Most other Western European
countries provide similar coverage through non-statutory or constitutional
arrangements (the US where 36 million people have no collective protection is
a noteworthy exception.)
22.   Classical theories on public economics and public finance explain this
tendency. Health care is not a homogeneous economic good, but can be fitted
into several categories. Public health services, such as disease control,
prevention and health promotion, are usually provided as public goods because
in most instances they are not marketable. Affordable access to hospital care
and basic medical care, although marketable, are increasingly provided as
merit goods by many western countries where it is felt that no one should be
deprived of essential medical care. Long-term residential care and many forms
of ambulatory care are usually regarded as private goods because they are
marketable and often judged non-essential (a judgement of considerable
contention). The classification of medical drugs, medical supplies and
services of general practitioners is open to debate because many are usually
affordable in limited quantities to the average population.
Figure 2,1: PUBLIC, PRIVATE AND MERIT GOODS
Public-Good       [private Good         lGood
Prevention         Residential         Hospitals
Promotion          Ambulatory <      > Hospital MDs
Care
Drugs
Medical Supplies
GPs
Source: Adapted from Alexander S. Prok}r, Health Care Financinx in
the OECD, 1991.
D../ The Some central and eastern European countries (Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland,
Romania and Republics of the former USSR), and many developing countries have passed similar
legislation.



-70 -                              ANNEX 2
23.   When public goods are treated as private goods and when private goods
are treated as public goods, a breakdown occurs in the efficient allocation of
resources. During the previous socialist regimes of Central and Eastern
Europe, almost all health care was treated as a public good, allocated through
centralized planning. Goods and services that behaved intrinsically like
private goods were easily sold on the black market at considerable profits and
at the expense of equity. Similar experiences are found in many Western and
developing countries. In the US, where most health care goods and services
are treated like private goods, market failure (monopolies, supplier induced
demand, adverse selection, etc.) leads to inefficient allocation of resources
through market forces. Where to draw the most appropriate boundaries for
merit goods is open to considerable debate and one of the main challenges for
the emerging market economies in Central and Eastern Europe.ll/
Financing Mechanisms
24.   Prepavment.  Providing financial protection against the high cost of
health care is the main reason that pooling of risk through third-party
prepayment has become the cornerstone of health care financing in most modern
societies, although direct ex post charges exist to a lesser extent in all.
Prepayment schemes in western countries fall into three broad categories --
general revenues characterized by the British National Health Service, social
insurance characterized by German sickness funds, and private insurance
characterized by American consumer sovereignty.
Figure 2.2: HEALTH CARE FINANCING IN WESTERN COUNTRIES
Prepayment
General Revenues
Social Insurance
Health Insurance
Direct Charges
Consumers                      Health Care Providers
(Patient)                    (Hospitals, doctors, etc.)
Services
25.   There is no convincing correlation between the source of financing,
level of expenditure or health status in western countries. Britain and New
Zealand rely heavily on general revenues but are among the countries that
spend the least per capita on health care. Sweden also relies heavily on
general revenues but is among those that spend the most. Austria, Belgium,
v~/ Gordon McLachlan and Alan Maynard, The Public/Private Mix for Health (London: Nuffield Provincial
Hospital Trust, 1982); and Antony J. Culyer and Bengt J8nsson, *ds., Public and Private Health
Services: Complamentarities and Conflicts (Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 1986); Carol Propper and Alan
Maynard, "Whither the private health care sector?" in Competition in Health Care: Reforming the NHS,
by A.J. Culyer, AK. Maynard and J.W. Posnett, eds. (London: Macmillan, 1990): 48-66.



-71 -                                ANNEX 2
Germany and the Netherlands, which rely more heavily on health insurance, fall
in the mid-range in the level of expenditure; Switzerland and the US are among
those that spend the most, relying heavily on private insurance.
26.   Health Insurance.  Health insurance is perceived by many as a panacea
for almost everything. Medical doctors believe that it will put more money in
their pockets. Patients believe that it will give them greater choice and
better standards of care. Ministries of Finance believe that it will relieve
them of responsibility for financing health services. Experience from western
countries and the evolving experience from Central and Eastern Europe
indicates that these expectations will not necessarily materialize.
27.   A source of the confusion surrounding this subject stems from the fact
that the term health insurance is poorly defined and is too often used
generically to describe many types of health care. This confusion is not
limited to Central and Eastern Europe. In New Zealand, "health insurance"
refers to a general revenue/tax funded National Health Service (NHS). In
Britain, the "magic of insurance" refers to general revenues with a small
national insurance component. In Canada and Australia, health insurance
refers to earmarked tax levies and general revenues. True risk-rated
insurance is not used as a major source of financing for health services in
any western country. Instead, most health insurance schemes are non risk-
rated and benefits are open-ended for at least part of the population.
28.   Difficulties with the use of the term "insurance" are compounded by a
number of false premises. Health insurance is used almost synonymously with
"fee-for-services" remuneration for doctors and retrospective reimbursements
for hospitals. On the other hand, the idea of general revenues immediately
triggers an image of the British NHS with salaried doctors and global
prospective hospital budgets. Closer examination indicates that these
associations are excessively stereotyped. In Australia, Canada, Finland,
Norway and New Zealand, where general revenues play a large role in financing
health services, doctors in ambulatory offices receive a fee-for-service. In
Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Japan and the Netherlands, where social
insurance dominates, hospital doctors are salaried.
29.   National wealth or GDP is the single most important determinant of the
level of health care expenditure, not the source of financing. Low per capita
GDP is the main reason that health care expenditure in Hungary lags behind its
western neighbors, not financing through the state budget.



- 72 -                    ANNEX 2
Figure 2.3: Determinants of Health Care Expenditure in the OECD
Hum *a WU" wi OEMD Cin,m. It?
Pw i ewn G6 Im 8~
Source:  SchieWbe and Poullier,J Helt   ffr1199
publi  funs - -and  ith  ood reasons3.  Inrassinte-rceo
ecoo  ti tm es .
L.  GM _  *s_sm Sm
eource: Schieber and Poullier,  countr    provide 1989a
30b       ofith the  introduction of restrictlve fiscal policies to control
inflation uring periods of sevxri econosic recession, uneTployment, poverty
and the n ed for cash benefits comhete with the health sector for scarce
public fund  -- and  with good reasons.   Increases in the price of
pharaceuticals, imrported  equipr nt, fuol, and  other specialized  goods and
rervrces continupt   Demo nds for a catch-up in salaries of health care workers
cadparev with the industrial sectors eventually contribute to this trend The
short-terp   effects of these factors translate into less financial resources
for health  sectors faced with rising costs and deu ands during difficult
econotic tihesa
31i  teiTa   Charbe       Although most western countries provide a standard
basknt of health care goods through public or p.ra-public prepayment schemes,
direct chtrges continue to exist almost everywhereV co This was also the
case in former socialist countries where direct charges were pervasive in the
form of 'gratuities' and 'black money/bribes'. Arguments in favor of, or
against such charges, and their impact on efficiency and equity, have been a
recurrent part of most 20th century health financing reforms in both developed
and developing countries. When the charges become large, populations are no
longer protected against the risk of illness though prepayment. When they are
too small, their impact on Cost recovery and utilization becomes negligible,
and not worth the administrative cost of collecting the charges. As is seen
in the Table below, no western country relies entirely on one mechanism for
financing health services.
JZ The tome  user char&oe. fees. out-of-pocket pauts. nt,co-p anunts, cost rocavory and ticket moderators
&ro used intorchrngoubly and inoonsistontLy for direct pny nce



73 -                     ~~~~~~ANNEX 2
Table 2.:   SOURCE OF HEALTH CARE FINANCING IN WESTERN COUNTRIES
Income     Social  Voluntary   Direct    Other
Tax   Security  Insurance  Charges
Ireland          79          3           3       13        2
UK               74         11           4        10       1
Belgium          43         41           3       13        0
Germany          20         63           7       10        0
Netherlands       5         73          13         9       0
France            4         71           9       16        0
Source: Jeremy W. Hurst, OECD, working papers, 1990.
32.   Public/Private Mix.  Much of the striking variability in the health
systems of western countries can be explained by the public/private mix in the
administration, ownership and payment of the institutions that produce health
care goods and services, rather than the source of their financing. The
following Figure gives a topology of health care financing mechanisms.13/
Most western countries have sub-components that fall into several cells at the
same time.
Figure 2.4: PUBLIC AND PRIVATE VARIABILITY
Prepayment of Health Care    Direct Charge
Production Government Statutory Regulated Competitive
Ownership  General     Social    Private  Out-of-pocket
Delivery   Revenue    Insurance Insurance  User fees
Purely         A           D         G           J
Public
Private        B           E         H           K
Non-profit
Private        C           F         I           L
For-profit
Source:  Adapted from Uwe E. Reinhardt, working paper, 1989.
33.   For example, the UK, New Zealand and the Nordic countries are dominant
in cell A, but also have components of B and C, and J to L in their public
],j/ Adaptod from Uwo E. Reinhardt, Working Paper, Princeton University, Princeton, 1989.



- 74 -                              ANNEX 2
sectors. Their private sectors include a range from D to L. Canada and
Australia are dominant in B and C, but likewise include D to L in their
private sectors. In Canada, J to L are prohibited by law for standard services
in the public sector, but there are direct charges for above standard-
services, pharmaceuticals and many other goods and services provided through
ambulatory care. Some continental European countries dominate in cells D to F,
but include A to C through the public sector for targeted services and
populations. The comparative literature on health care financing does not make
these distinctions clear. There are many studies that compare and contrast
health care financing in countries such as Australia, Canada, the US, France
and Germany because they use health insurance.
34.   A central lesson from the Western experience is that the mechanism used
to pay for health care providers (doctors and hospitals in particular),
ownership of facilities and responsibility for service delivery has a much
greater impact on the character of health services than the source of
financing. A well run health insurance scheme can offer universal coverage
and comprehensive care as well as have a low administrative cost and provide
expenditure controls.i4/ A poorly run scheme can be expensive to manage
while providing poor coverage and incomplete care. Schemes financed through
general revenues are prone to similar strengths and weaknesses.
IJ/ All of these advantages could be equally achieved though general revenue financing.



-75 -ANNEX 3
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSIONS ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
POLICY OPTIONS:
Cash Benefits and Health Care Financing
1.       This Annex discusses:  (A) the objectives of cash benefits and
prepayment in health care financing; and (B) major policy options needed to
ensure the viability of the Hungarian Pensions Fund and Health Insurance Fund.
2.       During the transition to a market economy, as Hungary experiences an
economic recession similar to that of other former socialist economies, there
is likely to be a substantial fall in tax and contribution revenues available
to the Pensions Fund and Health Insurance Fund. This influences the short-to-
medium-term policy options that should be emphasized.
A.  Oblectives
3.       Given the existing funding crisis it is easy to lose sight of the
fundamental objectives of cash benefits and prepayment of health care. These
will be reviewed briefly before turning to a discussion on various policy
options.
4.       Cash benefits and health care financing 1/ have a variety of
objectives of which, in the context of economic transitions, three have
particular significance:Z.
(a)  Redistribution of Wealth.  Both cash benefits and health care
financing should: (i) prevent individuals/families from falling
below a minimum standard of living or becoming destitute because of
the cost of health care; (ii) provide a mechanism for income
smoothing in the case of cash benefits through redistribution over
the life cycle of individuals, and through pooling of risk in the
case of health care; and (iii) provide a reasonable degree of equity
through redistribution from rich to poor.
(b) Macroeconomic Stabilization. Expenditure on cash benefits and health
care should be consistent with overall macroeconomic policy.
/  Benefits in kind, such as health care and education are a poor method to achieve redistribution or
income transfer for the purpose of poverty relief, income amoothing and equity (vertical and
horizontal). Income transfers are a much better vehicle for achieving these objectives. Benefits in
kind are an effective way of providing opportunity and access, to services, thereby enhancing equity.
/  Richard A. Musgrave and Peggy B. Musgrave, Public Finance in Theory and Practice, 4th Edition (New
York: McGraw-Hill, 1984): 6-19.



- 76 -                               ANNEX 3
(c) Allocative Effectiveness and Efficiency. Benefits financing should
both be capable of cost-effective and efficient administration
(minimum loss of financial resources on activities not directly
related to provide income support or health care).
B. Policy Options
Pensions and Other Cash Benefits
5.       Following fairly directly from the above objectives are six major
policy areas relating to cash benefits: (a) poverty relief, income smoothing
and equity; (b) cost containment; (c) allocative effectiveness and efficiency
(d) division of contributions between workers, employers and the state;
(e) administrative coordination; and (f) the role of private pensions. In
some cases this means creating new programs to respond to the needs of a
market economy such as unemployment benefits and social assistance of last
recourse. In other cases it means eliminating or reducing existing programs
that are no longer necessary or financially sustainable, such as extensive
early retirement and sick pay without a grace period.
6.       Poverty Relief. Income Smoothing and Equity.  Poverty relief requires
that a system of social assistance be designed and implemented quickly to
respond to an anticipated need for such benefits in the near future. Income
smoothing requires that targeting by pensions and other cash benefits provide
a "decent" and not just a minimal standard of living for children, the elderly
and other segments of the population during periods of predictable reduction
in income. Equity requires that the public sector remains ultimately
responsible for cash benefits even when contributory social insurance and
supplementary voluntary programs are used as the financing mechanism.
7.       Cost Containment.  Cost containment requires a reevaluation of
historical entitlement. First and foremost, in the case of pensions policy,
introduction of the following types of policies will be necessary in the near
future: (a) a phased increase in pensionable age; (b) the introduction of a
retirement test for receipt of the old age pension; and (c) the possibility of
contributing to supplementary pensions for those who wish to do so. Success
of the government's policy to prevent increases in public expenditure will
depend to a large measure on the speed and extent to which these policies are
introduced. In the case of other cash benefits the following will be
necessary: (a) improved targeting (means-testing for social assistance of
last recourse); (b) a reduction in eligibility for some benefits (increased
employer responsibility for the initial phase of sick pay); and (c) a regular



- 77 -                             AMEX 3
reexamination of benefit schedules to prevent adverse incentives. Cost
containment also makes it imperative that the government retains effective
macroeconomic control over fiscal policy.
8.       Effective and Efficient Administration.  Improving effectiveness and
efficiency requires the introduction of a modern administrative infrastructure
which can collect and record individual contributions, automate routine
procedures, and deliver benefits more effectively and cheaply. Such a system
produces two immediate benefits: administration becomes cheaper, and it
becomes possible to introduce cost-containing policies which cannot be
implemented with manual systems.
9.       Division of Contributions Between Worker. Employers and the State.
Though the theoretical importance of such sharing is debatable,2/ an
explicit worker contribution gives both a political and a financial signal.
The political signal concerns responsibility, and is particularly important
during the transition. It suggests that the state is responsible for
establishing the general framework of social protection, but that the
individual, through earnings and contributions, is substantially responsible
for him/herself. Where contributions are paid entirely by the enterprise,
workers neither receive a signal about where the true costs of benefits lie,
nor acquire any incentive to moderate their claims.
10.      With a worker contribution, any increase in benefits results
instantly in increased contributions. The resulting financial signal is that
it is the worker who pays, at least in part, for social insurance benefits.
Under the present system, there is a tendency for everyone to think that
benefits are paid by someone else; thus there is no political pressure to
contain costs.4/
11.      Additional work is needed on:  (a) the appropriate division of
contributions between workers, employers and the State; and (b) how workers
should be kept informed about their current and cumulative past contributions.
A related issue is the share of contributions and the state budget in paying
for benefits. As a general rule, benefits which are risk-related are
insurance-based (e.g., unemployment, sickness, old age) and financed out of
contributions, while benefits related to uninsurable risks (family allowance
and social assistance) are tax funded. Some insurance benefits might,
however, be tax funded for equity reasons, e.g. the social pensions for
individuals with too few contributions to be entitled to a regular old age
pension.
%/ In strict analytical terms, the incidence of the contribution depends on the relative product demand
and supply elasticities, and is independent of where the contribution is legally imposed. In theory,
therefore, it does not matter how the contribution is shared between worker and employer.
/ There is an exact parallel with fee-for-service medical care financed by insurance: if the insurance
company reimburses medical expenses in full, neither doctor nor patient has any incentive to
economize; the result, in many countries, has been largoly uncontrolled increases in medical
spending.



- 78 -                               ANNEX 3
12.      Administrative Coordination.  For reasons of clarity, administrative
ease, and to help facilitate applications for, enquiries about, and the
collection of benefits, the administration of income transfers is best when
coordinated to allow citizens to claim their pensions, benefits and allowances
from a single or closely related office. In Hungary, this implies
coordination of the activities of the Pensions and Health Insurance Funds, and
also coordination of the activities of the two Funds with those of social
assistance and unemployment benefits. Additional questions include the issue
of whether one Fund would take over the administration of benefits for the
other, and whether there should be some common services. In the case of the
latter, how would operating costs be shared between the two Funds?
13.      Role of Private Pensions.  The final topic requiring debate is the
role of private pensions in the future of Hungary's social insurance reform.
Subject to a suitable regulatory regime, the phased introduction of private
pensions is a useful complement to the state scheme. It is important,
however, to avoid this argument: 'PAYG schemes have problems, therefore, the
solution is funding.' The word 'therefore' does not logically follow. In
fact, both PAYG and regular funding face the same problem, namely that of how
to divide part of the national output between workers and pensioners. With
PAYG the problem manifests itself in political pressures to pay higher
pensions; with funding, political pressures arise when inflation reduces the
capital of pension funds, leading to erosion over time of the funded basis of
pensions (as shown by the Latin American experience).
14.      The following are some general conclusions about the experience of
private pensions in other countries that are relevant to the Hungarian
setting:
(a)  In all the OECD economies, as discussed earlier, private pensions are
complementary to substantial state schemes.
(b)  The introduction of private pensions brings about no short-term
budgetary saving.
(c)  Private pensions are no substitute for dealing directly with the
deficiencies of the current state pension scheme.
(d)  In the absence of a State guarantee, private pensions are very
vulnerable to inflation. Without a guarantee, high inflation may
decapitalize private schemes: at a minimum this would harm
pensioners and it also puts at risk public acceptance of the market
economy. To combat these risks, the state may introduce some form of
guarantee. To that extent, however, potential budgetary savings are
reduced.
(e) Private pensions, like financial institutions, generally, require
substantial regulation.



-79 -                               ANNEX 3
15.      In Hungary, future debate relative to private pensions will need to
address the following additional questions: a) what should be the design of an
appropriate regulatory structure; b) the extent to which citizen's choices
should be constrained (e.g. should citizens be allowed to manage their own
pensions portfolio); c) should membership be voluntary or compulsory;
d) should opting out be allowed; e) what would be the relation of private
schemes to state scheme; f) should the asset holdings of pension funds be
constrained; and g) what guarantees, if any, should the state offer?
16.      The division of responsibility for financing and delivery of social
insurance benefits in Hungary between the Pensions Fund and Health Insurance
Fund created two additional administrative priorities in Hungary. First, for
reasons of clarity, administrative ease, and to help facilitate applications
for and enquiries about benefits, the administration of income transfers needs
to be coordinated as much as possible so that citizens can claim their
entitlement to pensions, benefits and allowances from a single office.
Second, during the current period of fiscal stringency, significant and
unnecessary expenditures on overlapping administrative structures need to be
minimized.
Health Care Financing
17.      Six major areas for policy reform relating to health care financing
also follow from the above objectives: (a) financial protection against the
cost of illness, pooling of risk and equity; (b) cost constraint;
(c) allocative effectiveness and efficiency,V/ (d) division of contributions
between workers, employers and the state; (e) administrative coordination; and
(f) role of the private sector. In some cases these reforms call for creation
of new programs to respond to the needs of a market economy. These should
include: (a) effective health promotion and disease prevention; (b) basic
primary care; (c) private sector development; and (d) professional education
developmenti./ In other cases, it will be necessary to eliminate or reduce
existing programs that are no longer necessary or have become financially
unsustainable: enterprise and parallel health services; open ended subsidies
for pharmaceutical benefits; and free access to "luxury" and health services
of equivocal efficiency.
18.      Financial Protection. Pooling of Risk and Equity.  Financial
protection against the cost of illness requires universal participation in a
health care program that provides not just "minimal" but "standard" health
care throughout the life cycle of individuals and families. Pooling of risks
requires that prepayment (general revenues, national health insurance and
supplementary health insurance) remains the mainstay of health care financing.
Direct charge may play an important role for efficiency reasons, but it cannot
*   Alexander S. Preker, "Public Financing of Health Care: The Introduction of Universal Coverage," in
press, 1992.
/ This is the strategy supported by the World Bank in many of the health sector reforms in Central and
Eastern Europe: Poland-Health Services Development Project; Hungary - Health Services and Management
Project; and Romania - Health Care Rehabilitation Project.



- 80 -                              ANNEX 3
be relied on as the main source of financing for health services. Equity
requires that the government sector remains ultimately responsible for health
care financing even when para-public national insurance or supplementary
voluntary programs are used as the main mechanism for collecting
contributions. There should be a reasonable degree of equity through a
redistribution from rich to poor and from the healthy to those in need of
medical care.
19.      Cost Containment.]]  There are several compelling arguments in
favor of containment of expenditure in the health sector, especially in times
of economic recession. First, since consumer preferences for social goods are
concealed, cost containment is needed to set limits. The human desire to
avoid illness and death outstrips the capacity to pay even in the richest
countries. Second, it is a way to force institutions to become more efficient
and effective. Third, it offers the possibility of stabilizing health care
expenditure relative to the state budget and GDP. Fourth, it is a way to
limit health care expenditure according to the capacity to pay. Finally, it
prevents health care expenditure from encroaching on other social sectors that
have a significant impact on improving health (cash benefits, education and
other programs) or from having a "crowding-out" effect on private sector
growth which is essential to raising the overall standard of living. Food,
housing and income support need to be preserved at times of economic recession
since these will have a greater impact on health than health care itself.
20.      Experience from Western countries indicates that the most effective
methods for achieving expenditure controls are through the following methods:
(a)  Financing
- pubic sector control (general revenue or national insurance)
- single scheme (national, provincial or states)
(b)  Expenditure
- global expenditure caps for the health sector in general
- global budgets or capped case mix for hospitals
- capitation payments, salaries or capped fee-for-service for Mds
- limits on training of Mds and manpower planning for others
- binding arbitration in collective negotiations for salary increases
- limited formularies and utilization reviews for pharmaceuticals
- review committees for introduction of expensive new technology
- shared services
- private sector subcontracting
- managed competition and anti-cartel policies
21.      Unfortunately, there are also several compelling counter-arguments
against excessive or prolonged rigid expenditure controls.  First, if medical
care confers benefits in terms of health, the opportunity cost of limiting
2 Klaue-Dirk Banks, "Cost containment in health care: Justification and consequences," to be published
in Health Economics Worldwide by P. Zweifel and HE. French (Kluwer, 1991); Alexander S. Preker,
"Expenditure control through public financing in the OECD," Second World Congress on Health Economics,
University of Zurich, Switzerland, September 10-14, 1990; Antony J. Culyar, "Cost containment in
Europe," Annual Supplement, Health Care Financing Review (1989): 31; and Brian Abel-Smith, Cost
Containment in Health Care, Occasional Papers on Social Administration (London: Bedford Square Press,
NCVO, 1984).



-81 -                                ANNEX 3
expenditure may be higher than the savings gained.  Cost-benefit and cost-
effectiveness studies are not yet advanced enough or widespread enough to
establish the most appropriate level of expenditure on health care, and the
OECD experience is too varied to provide reliable guidelines. Second, health
care is an economic activity in itself that is hurt by aimless cost
containment. It employs workers and provides income that is recycled through
the economy. Production of health care goods and services, therefore, adds to
overall economic growth and needs to be seen in this light during periods of
economic growth. Such growth may be undesirable at times of restrictive
fiscal policies needed to control inflation and stabilize the economy. Third,
because unemployment is associated with deteriorating health status, excessive
containment of expenditure at the time of economic recession may weaken the
social infrastructures needed to respond to the potentially increased demand
for services. Finally, in mixed market economies, containment of expenditure
in the public sector does not stop expenditure in the private sector, but it
may hurt equity at a time when this is needed the most.
22.      For these reasons, some authors even question whether containment of
expenditure by itself is a valid health care policy option. Because most
health care goods and services are not allocated by a true market mechanism,
the optimal and desired level of spending from the point of view of the
consumer is largely unknown. When spending caps are set too low, congestion
occurs and black markets develop, similar to that which exist in Hungary and
many developing countries. This defeats the reason for introducing the cost
control measures in the first place. At a time of restrictive fiscal
policies, cost containment may be correct from a stabilization point of view,
but it implies significant trade-offs in the provision of benefits.
23.      Effective and Efficient Administration.  A major trade-off in the use
of global budget caps and salaries as a method of cost containment is a loss
in administrative efficiency. When hospitals and clinics are paid a lump sum
for the services they provide, they no longer pay attention to individual
expenditures. The lack of individualized records, leads to sloppy
administration and wasteful practices. Improving effectiveness and efficiency
requires the introduction of a modern administrative structure which can
collect and record individual contributions, refine health care provider
reimbursement schemes and track utilization patterns. As in the case of
pensions and cash benefits, such a system would produce two sorts of savings:
administration would be cheaper; and it would be possible to introduce cost-
containing and performance-based policies which cannot be implemented with
existing manual administrative systems.
24.      The trick is to make use of incentives towards efficiency within
medical care, while at the same time containing total public medical spending.
Thus, for incentive reasons, doctors who give more effective treatment to more
patients should be paid more; but there need to be checks against abuse. The
design of such systems is not easy. If doctors' payments are not performance-
related, there is no incentive to improved performance; but if pay is
performance-related, there is an incentive to oversupply treatment, which
requires regulation. The core of any policy to contain costs must be global
budget capping. The OECD offers a rich range of examples on how to achieve



- 82 -                              ANNEX 3
this while retaining as much as possible the efficiency advantages of
incentives.B.
25.      Division of Contributions Between Worker. Emplovers and the State.
The observations in this regard are similar to those described above for
pensions and other cash benefits. The move to a market economy requires that
a new balance be sought between contributions made by workers, employers and
the state towards the financing of health services. In the case of health
care financing, an additional question arises in relation to the role of
direct user charges for some services. Such charges can be significant as a
source of local financing of specific low- to medium-cost services and sends a
signal to the user that services are not free. The revenues that can be
mobilized through user charges are insufficient to finance expensive hospital
care which will continue to rely on prepayment and risk pooling of one sort or
another. Efficiency arguments in favor of the use of such charges on the
basis on their impact on utilization rates are counterbalanced by many
disadvantages. They are administratively cumbersome, costly to collect, and
may act as a deterrent for low income groups that need some services the most.
In the ambulatory setting they may force low income groups to seek medical
attention from the more expensive hospital settings when financing is
protected through third party payment schemes.
26.      Administrative Coordination.  Close coordination between the cash
benefit system and health insurance system is essential, especially in the
area of collection of contributions and the identification of eligible
individuals. On the benefit side, pensions and cash benefit offices will have
a very different function from health insurance claims offices. Arguments for
shared facilities in this respect are not convincing.
27.      Role of the Private Sector.  The private sector will play a much more
important role in the health sector in Hungary in the future than during the
past. In this respect, a clear distinction needs to be made between private
provision and private health insurance. Experience from western countries
indicates that a phased introduction of private ownership of facilities in the
health sector can work effectively, and in many instances may be preferable to
public ownership, even when the public sector plays a leading role in
financing such services. Strict regulations are needed to maintain quality
control and avoid abuse by private health care providers who will try at all
costs to increase their profits.
28.      The fact that general revenue funding had problems in the past does
not indicate that private health insurance will solve these problems. Global
budgets and general revenue funding have problems with incentives; and
insurance-based systems have problems with over-servicing and cost
containment. The following are some general observations about the experience
/ For a survey of health finance in the OECD, see Nicholas Barr, 'Economic Theory and the Welfare State:
A Survey and Interpretation', Journal of Economic Literature, 30 (2), pp. 741-803, June 1992, and the
various contributions in Health Care Systems in Transition: The Search for Efficiency, Paris: OECD,
1990.



- 83 -                               ANNEX 3
of private health insurance in other countries that are relevant to the
Hungarian setting:
(a) In all the OECD economies (with the exception of the US), private
health insurance tends to be complementary to substantial public
regimes.
(b) The introduction of private health insurance brings about no short-
term budgetary saving.
(c) Private health insurance is no substitute for dealing directly with
the deficiencies of the current public scheme.
(d) In the absence of a State guarantee, private health care insurance is
very vulnerable to inflation and disclaimers.
(e) Private health insurance, like other financial institutions
generally, requires substantial regulation to control adverse
selection, moral hazards, cream skimming, unfair disclaimers, large
retention fees and a tendency towards cost escalation.
29.      Similar to the discussion on pensions, relevant questions relating to
private health insurance include: the design of an appropriate regulatory
structure; the extent to which citizens' choices should be constrained;
whether membership should be voluntary or compulsory; should opting out be
allowed; what would be the relation of private schemes with the public scheme;
should the asset holdings of private health insurance be constrained; and what
guarantees, if any, should the state offer in the case of insolvency or fraud.
30.      It does not follow, based on the previous discussion, that Hungary
should copy the model of any specific OECD country; nor that it should spend
the same level of GDP on cash benefits and health care as its richer Western
European neighbors. Market failure arguments, being technical, are, however,
as applicable in Hungary as in any other country that wishes to rely
substantially on private markets. Both economic theory and the practical
experience of the OECD suggest these qualitative regularities are not country
specific.






- 85 -                               ANNEX 4
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSIONS ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
A PENSIONS FORECASTING MODEL 1/
1.       The Hungarian Government is following the mainstream OECD experience
in keeping state pensions operating on a PAYG basis. This does not mean that
the Pension Fund would not have reserves or that the state schemes would not
be complemented by private supplementary coverage for higher income groups.
It merely underscores that there are no expectations that reserves or private
schemes would cover more than a fraction of liabilities into the near future.
As described earlier, the issue of viability is, therefore, whether pensions
can be financed by contributions, given the likely numbers of future
beneficiaries, which are not so high that they create adverse micro and
macroeconomic incentives.
2.       The viability of the Pensions Fund depends on at least two factors:
in a narrow sense, it depends on the ability of the Fund to avoid a current
account deficit; more broadly, financing mechanisms must be designed so that
any difference between contribution income and benefit expenditure would not
be so large as to cause spillover with ill-effects for other parts of the
state budget or, more generally, for the economy as a whole. The pensions
model that follows takes these factors into account.
3.       Expenditure on pensions is analyzed in five cases:  (a) a base case,
and four cases which demonstrate the effects of (b) output growth; (c)
improved mortality; (d) increased pensionable age; and (e) a reduction in the
average pension. A key result that emerges is that output growth per_s leads
to little improvement, since pensions de facto are tied to real wages, which
in turn are linked to output growth. By contrast, increasing the retirement
age along the lines the government is currently proposing, reduces pension
spending over 25 years by about 5 percent of GDP. The key policy conclusion
is thus twofold: that policies exist which resolve the difficulties of
pension financing; but their implementation would require the government to
bite the political bullet by raising the retirement age, and possibly,
reducing pensions above minimum indexation.
i/ Developed by Nicholas Barr (EC1/2HR) and Leonardo Concepcion (EMTPH).



- 86 -                               ANNEX 4
A. Description of the Pension ExRenditure Model
4.       The pensions model described below facilitates assessment of the
viability of the Pension Fund. The main purpose of the model is to predict
the cost of pensions over a 25-year period.
5.       Description.  The model calculates the contribution rate necessary to
finance pensions over a 25 year period under different assumptions about
(a) pension expenditure, and (b) the contributions base.
6.       Pension expenditure depends on the assumptions made about the number
of pensioners and the average pension.
a.   The number of pensioners.  The model allows different assumptions
about age-specific mortality rates and about the age of retirement
(both variables can be changed over time).
b.   The average pension can be held constant in real terms or can rise in
line with real wages.
7.       The contributions base depends on:  (a) average earnings; and (b) the
number of contributors.
a.   Average earnings depend on the rate of output and earnings growth;
the model allows for different assumptions and different time paths
of both variables.
b.   The number of contributors depends, inter  alia, on the population
growth rate, labor-force participation rates, the level of
unemployment, and the age of retirement. All these can be varied.
8.       Estimates of future contribution rates are shown in Tables 3, Cases
A-E. Each table shows the estimated number of pensioners and contributors,
pension expenditure as a percent of GDP, and the estimated contribution rate
for the 25-year period from 1991 to 2016.
9.       The base case, shown in Case A, assumes zero growth in output and
real wages, zero population growth, no change in mortality rates, and a
continuation of the current pensions regime (in particular no change in the
retirement age, and no change in the ratio of the average pension to the
average wage). Since the model includes the current age distribution of the
population, demographic effects are taken into account automatically. The
contribution rate necessary to finance such a regime rises slightly over 25
years from 39.5 percent (roughly the current contribution necessary to pay for
pensions) to 42 percent. Pension expenditure rises slightly from 12 to 12.5
percent of GDP.
10.      The effect of output growth is shown in Case B, which assumes that
output falls by 8 percent in 1992 and by 4 percent in 1993; output is assumed
constant in 1995, growing at an annual rate of 1 percent from 1996-1999, and
of 2 percent thereafter. It is also assumed that real wages track output



- 87-                                ANNEX 4
growth. In Case B, the contribution rate is essentially identical to that in
the base case. The reason is simple: if real wages follow output growth and
pensions follow real wages, then output growth Rer se makes no difference to
the contribution rate. As in the previous case, pensions remain a broadly
constant fraction of GDP over the period. Thus the contribution rate is not
sensitive to output growth.
11.      The effect of improved mortality rates is shown in Case C.  Suppose
the measures in the health project, particularly those relating to public
health, improve mortality rates. The assumptions are the same as in Case B,
except that mortality rates are all improved by 1.5 percent for both men and
women. Again, there is very little change in the contribution rate or in
pension expenditure as a percent of GDP. The explanation, again, is simple.
Improved mortality rates mean that pensioners live longer, hence increasing
pension expenditure. Improved mortality also increase the life expectancy of
workers, and hence increases the contributions base. The result in Case C
shows that the latter effect partially offsets the former, so that larger
numbers of pensioners can be accommodated with a relatively small increase in
contributions. Thus the contribution rate is not highly sensitive to overall
improvements in mortality.
12.      The effect of raising the retirement age is to reduce the number of
pensioners (Case D). The assumption is that the retirement age for women
rises to 56 in 1994 and thereafter by one year every two years until 2002,
when it reaches a common retirement age with men of 60; the common retirement
age then rises to 61 in 2004 and thereafter by one year every two years until
it reaches 65 in 2012. The effect is dramatic. Over the 25-year period, the
number of pensioners falls from 2.5 million to 1.4 million; the contribution
rate falls to 21.4 percent; and pension expenditure falls from 12 percent to
6.8 percent of GDP.
13.      The effect of raising the retirement age and reducing the average
pension is shown in Case E. The assumptions are those of the previous case
with one addition, namely that the average pension is reduced from 67 percent
to 50 percent of the average wage. Reducing pensions in this way does not
affect the number of pensioners and contributors, which remain unchanged from
the previous case. But the combined effect of the two policies is to reduce
pension spending over 25 years from 12 (Case D, 1991) to 5 percent of GDP
(Case E, 2016), and the contribution rate to 15.9 percent. Note that a policy
of reducing the average pension as a fraction of the average wage becomes
easier as real wages increase.
Implications for the Viability of the Pensions Fund
14.      The result in Case B is particularly important.  Under present
pension arrangements, output growth per se does not reduce the contribution
rate. If anything, the situation is worse than shown in Case B, since as real
wages rises, newly awarded pensions, bearing a broadly constant relativity to
wages, replace the lower real pensions awarded to earlier generations. Output
growth alone is no solution. On the other side of the balance, however,
improved life expectancy does not make things worse.



- 88 -                               ANNEX 4
15.      Increasing the retirement age sharply reduces pension expenditure,
not by reducing living standards in old age, but by reducing the duration of
retirement and hence the number of pensioners. The effective introduction of
an increased retirement age dramatically reduces the number of pensioners and
also the contribution rate. Reducing the average pension also reduces
expenditure. The combined effect of both policies is to reduce pension
spending from 12 percent to 5 percent of GDP relative to the base case.
16.      The implications for policy are twofold.
a.   It is not being suggested that there should be any sudden or
draconian change in the pensions regime. But a phased increase in
the retirement age, possibly accompanied by a fall in the relativity
of the state pension to the average wage would completely transform
pension finance. Put another way, policies exist which are more than
sufficient to ensure the financial viability of the Pension Fund.
b.   This rosy future, however, cannot be achieved by doing nothing.  As
Case B shows, the solution cannot be left to output growth alone. It
would be necessary to bite the bullet politically, certainly by
taking action on the retirement age (this is already government
policy), and possibly also by taking some action on pension levels.
B. InRuts for the Pensions ExRenditure Model
ScoRe and Construction
17.      Key outputs of the model (developed by Nicholas Barr and Leonardo
Concepcion) include:
a.   total number of pensioners;
b.   total number of contributors;
c.   pension expenditure as percent of GDP; and
d.   the contribution rate necessary to finance the pension.
18.      Software.  The model uses Lotus 2.1 or above.
19.      Construction.   There are 26 columns.   Column 0 gives the initial
conditions (e.g., the 1991 average wage). Columns 1 - 25 can be used to give a
25 year run. Alternatively, since the model contains an inflation variable, the
model can be used over a 24 month period for detailed cost estimates.   The
construction of the model is very general.  Options which are not required can
be switched off (e.g., by setting the inflation variable to zero).  The model can
therefore be adapted easily to different countries.
20.      Necessary data inputs.  Actual values (or estimates) for year 0 are
needed for the following (readily available) data:
a.   GDP;
b.   average monthly wage;



- 89 -                               ANNEX 4
c.   average monthly pension;
d.   average age of first receipt of pension (separately for men and Women);
e.   normal age for receipt of pension (separately for men and women);
f.   life expectancy (separately for men and women);
g.   the age distribution of the population (separately for men and women);
the distribution can be in 5-year groups, or separately for each age;
h.   age-specific mortality rates (separately for men and women);  the rates
can be in 5-year groups, or separately for each age;
i.   labor-force participation rates (separately for men and women);
J.   unemployment rate; and
k.   pension contributions rate.
Variables and Outputs
21.      Assumptions/variables which can be changed include (variables marked
with an asterisk can vary each year over the 25 years):
a.   rate of growth of output;
b.   price inflation;
c.   rate of growth of real wages;
d.   the presence or absence of an incomes policy;
e.   alternative pension regimes (e.g. fixed nominal, indexed to prices or
indexed to wages;
f.   the extent of early retirement;
g.   the normal age of retirement (separately for men and women);
h.   age-specific mortality rates (which can be changed both over time, and
for specific age groups);
i.   population growth rates (applies only to births after period 0);
J.   labor-force participation rates (separately for men and women); and
k.   unemployment rates.
22.      Other outputs, additional to those in para. 1, (all these outputs are
calculated each year for 25 years) include:
a.   average duration of retirement (separately for men and women);
b.   estimates of the population, distributed by age over a 25-year period,
under different assumptions about the evolution of mortality rates
(separately for men and women);
c.   numbers of pensioners under different assumptions about the retirement
age (separately for men and women);
d.   number of individuals who have retired early (separately for men and
women);
e.   the total cost of pensions;
f.   percentage  of  pension  expenditure  on  individuals  below  normal
pensionable age;



- 90 -                               ANNEX 4
g.   estimates of the population of working age over a 25-year period under
different assumptions about the evolution of mortality rates
(separately for men and women);
h.   estimates of the labor force, as for (f), under different assumptions
about the level of unemployment; and
i.   total contribution revenues.
23.      Long-run uses.  The model can be used to simulate the cost of pensions
over a 25-year period, changing any of the assumptions listed. It is therefore
possible, as examples, to investigate the impact on pension expenditure in the
following cases.
a.   a health project succeeds in increasing life expectancy by 5 years.
b.   the demographic structure of the population foreshadows a future sharp
increase in the number of pensioners.
c.   a legislative change phases in an increase in the retirement age for
women to equalize it with that for men and, thereafter, raises the
retirement age for both men and women.
d.   financial exigencies necessitate reducing the pension as a fraction of
the average wage; and
e.   a legislative change results in pensions in the future being tied to
changes in the price level rather than to changes in average wages.
24.      Short-run uses.  The model includes an inflation variable, and incomes
policy variable, and an unemployment rate, all of which can vary period by
period. Used as a monthly model, it is possible, as examples, to investigate the
impact on pension expenditure in the following cases.
a.   inflation is expected to be at least 100 percent over the year, rising
month by month.
b.   in the face of rapid inflation it is necessary to introduce price
indexation for all pensions.
c.   in the face of rapid inflation, only the minimum pension is paid, but
fully indexed to price inflation; and
d.   to counter potential hyperinflation, an incomes policy is introduced,
which has the effect of reducing the rate of growth of the wage base,
and hence, as a side-effect, of reducing the rate of growth of
contribution revenues.



-91 -                                ANNEX 4
Table 4.1: PROJECTED PENSION EXPENDITURE AND CONTRIBUTION RATES, 1991-2016
Case A: The Base Cases
Year     Number of    Number                Pension
Pensioners   of Contributors    Pending % as         Contribution
(OO0s)        (O0Os)              of GDP            Rate
0         1991       2501.4       4269.0              11.95%                39.45%
1         1992       2490.6       4273.4              11.89%                39.24%
2         1993       2480.7       4279.1              11.85%                39.03%
3         1994       2472.0       4299.5              11.81%                38.71%
4         1995       2469.7       4321.0              11.79%                38.49%
5         1996       2468.5       4342.0              11.79%                38.28%
6         1997       2461.6       4362.0              11.76%                38.00%
7         1998       2463.9       4382.6              11.77%                37.85%
8         1999       2466.3       4369.8              11.78%                38.00%
9         2000       2471.8       4357.8              11.80%                38.19%
10        2001       2477.6       4607.5              11.83%                36.21%
11        2002       2479.3       4594.3              11.84%                36.34%
12        2003       2485.4       4581.6              11.87%                36.53%
13        2004       2491.3       4561.1              11.90%                36.78%
14        2005       2508.8       4540.9              11.98%                37.20%
15        2006       2526.1       4520.3              12.06%                37.63%
16        2007       2542.0       4492.3              12.14%                38.10%
17        2008       2567.4       4462.8              12.26%                38.74%
18        2009       2591.4       4426.4              12.38%                39.42%
19        2010       2607.3       4390.7              12.45%                39.98%
20        2011       2622.6       4366.5              12.52%               40.44%
21        2012       2634.2       4331.9              12.58%               40.94%
22        2013       2640.2       4297.8              12.61%               41.36%
23        2014       2646.3       4266.8              12.64%               41.76%
24        2015       2638.0       4236.2              12.60%               41.93%
25        2016       2629.8       4214.2              12.56%               42.02%
NOTE:  a Assumptions:
(i)   pensions 67% of average wage;
(ii) life expectancy unchanged;
(iii) pensionable age unchanged; and
(iv)  output growth - 0.



- 92 -                                ANNEX 4
TABLE 4.2: PROJECTED PENSION EXPENDITURE AND CONTRIBUTION RATES, 1991-2016
Case B: The Effects of Output Growth'
Year      Number of    Number                Pension
Pensioners   of Contributors    Pending % as          Contribution
(000s)        (OO0s)               of GDP             Rate
0      1991       2501.4         4269.0                11.95%               39.45%
1      1992       2490.6         4273.4                11.89%               39.24%
2      1993       2480.7         4279.1                11.85%               39.03%
3      1994       2472.0         4299.5                11.81%               38.71%
4      1995        2469.7        4321.0                11.79%               38.49%
5      1996       2468.5         4342.0                11.79%               38.28%
6      1997       2461.6         4362.0                11.76%               38.00%
7      1998       2463.9         4382.6                11.77%               37.85%
8      1999       2466.3         4369.8                11.78%               38.00%
9      2000       2471.8         4357.8                11.80%               38.19%
10     2001       2477.6         4607.5                11.83%               36.21%
11     2002       2479.3         4594.3                11.84%               36.34%
12     2003       2485.4         4581.6                11.87%               36.53%
13     2004       2491.3         4561.1                11.90%               36.78%
14     2005       2508.8         4540.9                11.98%               37.20%
15     2006       2526.1         4520.3                12.06%               37.63%
16     2007       2542.0         4492.3                12.14%               38.10%
17     2008       2567.4         4462.8                12.26%               38.74%
18     2009       2591.4         4426.4                12.38%               39.42%
19     2010       2607.3         4390.7                12.45%               39.98%
20     201].      2622.6         4366.5                12.52%               40.44%
21     2012       2634.2         4331.9                12.58%               40.94%
22     2013       2640.2         4297.8                12.61%               41.36%
23     2014       2646.3         4266.8                12.64%               41.76%
24     2015       2638.0         4236.2                12.60%               41.93%
25     2016       2629.8         4214.2                12.56%               42.02%
NOTE:  ' Assumptions:
(i)    pensions 67% of average wage;
(ii)   life expectancy unchanged;
(iii)  pensionable age unchanged; and
(iv)   output growth - -8% in 1992; -4% in 1993; 0 in 1994;  1% 1995-
1999; and 2% thereafter.



- 93 -                               ANNEX 4
Table 4.3: PROJECTED PENSION EXPENDITURE AND CONTRIBUTION RATES, 1991-2016
Case C: The Effects of Reduced Mortalitya
Year     Number of    Number                Pension
Pensioners   of Contributors    Pending X as         Contribution
(000s)        (O0Os)              of GDP            Rate
0     1991        2501.4        4269.0              11.95%            39.45%
1     1992        2490.6        4273.4              11.89%            39.24%
2     1993        2498.4        4282.6              11.93%            39.28%
3     1994        2505.9        4306.4              11.97%            39.18%
4     1995        2518.4        4330.9              12.03X            39.15%
5     1996        2530.8        4354.9              12.09%            39.13%
6     1997        2535.5        4377.6              12.11%            39.00%
7     1998        2548.7        4400.8              12.17%            39.00%
8     1999        2561.4        4390.3              12.23%            39.28%
9     2000        2576.5        4380.5              12.30%            39.60%
10     2001        2591.4        4634.0              12.38%            37.65%
11     2002        2600.6        4622.8              12.42%            37.88%
12     2003        2614.0        4612.1              12.48%            38.16%
13     2004        2626.9        4593.2              12.55%            38.51%
14     2005        2651.3        4574.8              12.66%            39.02%
15     2006        2675.3        4555.9              12.78%            39.54%
16     2007        2698.0        4529.2              12.89%            40.11%
17     2008        2730.0        4500.9              13.04%            40.84%
18     2009        2760.2        4465.5              13.18%            41.62%
19     2010        2781.9        4430.8              13.29%            42.28%
20     2011        2802.6        4408.3              13.38%            42.81%
21     2012        2817.6        4374.8              13.46%            43.37%
22     2013        2826.9        4341.8              13.50%            43.84%
23     2014        2836.1        4311.9              13.54%            44.29%
24     2015        2830.6        4282.3              13.52%            44.51%
25     2016        2825.2        4261.6              13.49%            44.64%
NOTE:  * Assumptions:
(i)   pensions 67% of average wage;
(ii) life expectancy improves by 1.5% at all ages from 1993 onwards;
(iii) pensionable age unchanged; and
(iv) output growth - -8% in 1992; -4% in 1993; 0 in 1994; 1% 1995-
1999; and 2% thereafter.



- 94 -                                ANXEX 4
Table 4.4: PROJECTED PENSION EXPENDITURE AND CONTRIBUTION RATES, 1991-2016
Case D: The Effect of Increasing Pensionable Agea
Year      Number of    Number                Pension
Pensioners   of Contributors    Pending % as          Contribution
(000s)        (OO0s)               of GDP             Rate
0       1991        2501.4        3670.6             11.95%               45.89%
1       1992        2490.6        3684.4             11.89%               45.52%
2       1993        2324.1        3825.9             11.10%               40.90%
3       1994        2194.0        3935.7             10.48%               37.54%
4       1995        2190.1        3961.4             10.46%               37.23%
5       1996        2125.3        4027.6             10.15%               35.53%
6       1997        2116.5        4052.8             10.11%               35.16%
7       1998        2047.4        4118.9              9.78%               33.47%
8       1999        2044.2        4110.3              9.76%               33.49%
9       2000        1976.8        4142.1              9.44%               32.14%
10        2001       1982.9        4379.7              9.47%               30.49%
11        2002       1921.3        4407.6              9.18%               29.35%
12        2003       1923.1        4390.8              9.18%               29.49%
13        2004       1810.1        4453.7              8.64%               27.37%
14       2005        1811.9        4429.1              8.65%               27.55%
15        2006       1702.5        4488.7              8.13%               25.54%
16        2007       1703.5        4463.5              8.14%               25.70%
17       2008        1595.1        4518.9              7.62%               23.77%
18       2009        1600.6        4484.8              7.64%               24.03%
19        2010       1494.1        4530.9              7.14%               22.20%
20       2011        1498.8        4503.4              7.16%               22.41%
21        2012       1391.8        4558.8              6.65%               20.56%
22        2013       1393.5        4531.9              6.65%               20.70%
23        2014       1395.2        4508.0              6.66%               20.84%
24        2015       1396.9        4484.4              6.67%               20.97%
25       2016        1417.7        4469.3              6.77%               21.36%
NOTE:  a Assumptions:
(i)      pensions 67% of average wage;
(ii)     life expectancy unchanged;
(iii)    pensionable age rises by one year in every two for women from
1994, and similarly for both men and women from 2004 until a
common pensionable age o 65 is reached in 2012; and
(iv)     output growth - -8% in 1992; -4% in 1993; 0 in 1994;  1% 1995-
1999; and 2% thereafter.



-95 -ANNE  4
Table 4.5: PROJECTED PENSION EXPENDITURE AND CONTRIBUTION RATES, 1991-2016
Case E: The Effect of Increasing Pensionable Age
and Reducing the Average Pensiona
Year     Number of    Number                Pension
Pensioners   of Contributors    Pending % as         Contribution
(OOs)        (OO0s)              of GDP             Rate
0       1991       2501.4        3670.6              8.87%             34.07
1       1992       2490.6        3684.4              8.83%             33.80%
2       1993       2324.1        3825.9              8.24%             30.37%
3       1994       2194.0        3935.7              7.78%             27.87%
4       1995       2190.1        3961.4              7.77%             27.64%
5       1996       2125.3        4027.6              7.54%             26.38%
6       1997       2116.5        4052.8              7.51%             26.11%
7       1998       2047.4        4118.9              7.26%             24.85%
8       1999       2044.2        4110.3              7.25%             24.87%
9       2000       1976.8        4142.1              7.01%             23.86%
10       2001       1982.9        4379.7              7.03%             22.64%
11       2002       1921.3        4407.6              6.81%             21.79%
12       2003       1923.1        4390.8              6.82%             21.90%
13       2004       1810.1        4453.7              6.42%             20.32%
14       2005       1811.9        4429.1              6.43%             20.46%
15       2006       1702.5        4488.7              6.04%             18.96%
16       2007       1703.5        4463.5              6.04%             19.08%
17       2008       1595.1        4518.9              5.66%             17.65%
18       2009       1600.6        4484.8              5.68%             17.85%
19       2010       1494.1        4530.9              5.30%             16.49%
20       2011       1498.8        4503.4              5.32%             16.64%
21       2012       1391.8        4558.8              4.94%             15.26%
22       2013       1393.5        4531.9              4.94%             15.37%
23       2014       1395.2        4508.0              4.95%             15.47%
24       2015       1396.9        4484.4              4.95%             15.57%
25       2016       1417.7        4469.3              5.03%             15.86%
NOTE:  a Assumptions:
(i)    pensions 50% of average wage;
(ii)   life expectancy unchanged;
(iii)  pensionable age rises by one year in every two for women from
1994, and similarly for both men and women from 2004 until a
common pensionable age o 65 is reached in 2012; and
(iv)   output growth - -8% in 1992; -4% in 1993; 0 in 1994;  1% 1995-
1999; and 2% thereafter.






-97-                                 ANNEX 5
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSIONS ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
A HEALTH CARE FINANCING FORECASTING MODEL 1/
1.       This annex provides the detailed assumptions used in the simulation
analysis of the budgetary implications of the no-policy change base run
(Scenario I) and the alternative scenario incorporating the reforms to reduce
the utilization of health care services and contain outlays for
pharmaceuticals (Scenario II) needed to secure the financial viability of the
Health Insurance Fund.
SCENARIO I
A.   INPATIENT COSTS - (1) * (2) * (3),where:
(1) - Population 000': World Bank estimates;
(2) - Number of admission/O00': 215 from 1989 to 1991; 210 from 1992 to
1996; 200 from 1997 to 2000;
(3) - Costs per admission: 4% annual increases from 1989 to 1995; 5%
annual increase from 1996 to 2000.
B.  OUTPATIENT COSTS  .(1*2)+(3*4)+(5*6)+(7*8)+(9*10)+(11*12)-, where:
(1) - Number of public physicians: Based on the total number of
physicians (assumed constant after 1990), the share of physicians
working in the public sector decrease from 90% in 1991 to 40% in
2000;
(2) - Average wage of public physicians: 2% annual increase in 1990 and
1991, 5% in 1992 and 1993, 6% in 1994, 10% in 1995 and 1996, 7% in
1997, then almost constant through 2000 to reach the year 200
average wage of the private sector (see estimates for the wage
bill);
(3) - Number of private physicians: Based on the total number of
physicians (assumed constant after 1990), the share of physicians
working in the private sector increase from 10% in 1991 to 60% in
2000;
(4) - Average wage of private physicians: twice the average wage of
public physicians;
j/ Developed by Guy Ellena (MHNlPH).



- 98 -                               ANNEX 5
(5) - Number of public ancillary personnel: Based on the total number of
ancillary personnel (assumed constant after 1990), the share of
ancillary personnel working in the public sector decrease from 95%
in 1991 to 60% in 2000:
(6) - Average wage of public ancillary personnel: 2% annual increase in
1990 and 1991, 5% in 1992, 10% in 1993, 20% in 1994, then the
average wage of the public sector through year 2000 (see estimates
for the wage bill);
(7) - Number of private ancillary personnel: Based on the total number of
ancillary personnel (assumed constant after 1990), the share of
ancillary personnel working in the private sector increase from 5%
in 1991 to 40% in 2000;
(8) - Average wage of private ancillary personnel: 80% of the public
physicians wage;
(9) - Number of public non-med. Personnel: Based on the total number of
non-med. personnel (assumed constant after 1990), the share of
ancillary personnel working in the public sector decreases from 95%
in 1991 to 60% in 2000;
(10) - Average wage of public non-med. Personnel: 2% annual increase in
1990 and 1991, 5% in 1992, 10% in 1993 and 1994, then equals 85% of
public ancillary personnel wage;
(11) - Number of private non-med. Personnel: Based on the total number of
non-med. personnel (assumed constant after 1990), the share of non-
med. personnel working in the private sector increase from 5% in
1991 to 40% in 2000;
(12) - Average wage of private non-med. Personnel: 70% of public
physirians wage;
(13) - Number of encounters/pers./year: decrease from 13.4 in 1989 to 13.2
in 1995 and 13 in 1997 and after;
(14) - Non-pers. cost per encounter: 10% annual increase from 1990 to
1995, then 5% through year 2000.
C.  PHARMACEUTICAL; 3% annual increase from 1989 through year 2000;
D.  FACILITY MAINTENANCE - (1*2)+(3*4); (estimates from ATH, 1989), where:
(1) - Number of beds maintained: from 75,000 in 1990 to 40,000 in year
2000;
(2) - Cost per bed maintained: 50,000 Ft/year;
(3) - Number of outpatient facilities maintained: 30,000 over the period;
(4) - Cost per outpatient facility maintained: 50,000 Ft/year.



99-                                ANNEX 5
E.  PUBLIC HEALTH - 3% annual increase
F.  OTHER    - 3% annual increase
G.  NATIONAL HEALTH FUND ADMINISTRATION: estimates from ATH, 1989
H.  MINISTRY OF WELFARE ADMINISTRATION: estimates from ATH, 1989
I.  FACILITY UPGRADING - (1*2) + (3*4); (estimates from ATH, 1989), where:
(1) - Number of beds upgraded: 12,000 per year from 1990 to 1994, then
10,000 per year through year 2000;
(2) - Cost per bed upgraded: 300,000 Ft/bed from 1990 to 1994, then
450,000 Ft/bed through year 2000;
(3) - Number of outpatient facilities upgraded: 5,000 per year over the
period;
(4) - Cost per outpatient facility upgraded; 250,000 Ft from 1990 to
1992, 300,000 Ft/year from 1993 to 1995, then 350,000 through year
2000.
J.         GDP
Assumptions: -4.3% in 1990; -5% in 1991; 0% in 1992; 1% in 1993; 1/5% in
1994; then 2.5% annual increase through year 2000.
SCENARIO II
Scenario II differs from scenario I only on the following items:
A.  INPATIENT COSTS - (1)*(2)*(3), where:
(2)    Number of admission/000': from 215 in 1989 to 200 in 1993, 190 in
1995 and 165 in year 2000.
B.  OUTPATIENT COSTS - (1*2)+(3*4)+(5*6)+(7*8)+(9*10)+(11*12)-, where:
C.  PHARMACEUTICAL: 1% annual increase from 1989 through year 2000;
Assumptions governing items D to J remain the same as in Scenario I.
WAGE BILL
A.  Labor force: 4% annual average range of increase;
B.  Unemployed (as X of the labor force); 5% in 1991, 8% from 1992 to 1994, 7%
for 1995 and 1996, 6% for 1997 and 1998, then 5% and 4% respectively for
1999 and 2000;
C.  Employed in the public sector: decrease from 90% of the employed
population in 1990 to 60% in 1995 and 20% in 1999 and 2000;



- 100 -                                ANNEX 5
D.  Employed in the private sector: increase from 10% of the employed
population in 1990 to 40X in 1995 and 80% in 1999 and 2000;
E. Average annual wage in the public sector: 2.6% and 2.5% decrease in 1990
and 1991, stable in 1992, then increases of 1% in 1993, l.5S in 1994, 2%
in 1995 and 1996, then 3% through year 2000;
F.  Average annual wage in the private sector: 2.6% and 2.5% increase in 1990
and 1991, 1% in 1992, 0.5X in 1993, stable in 1994, -1% from 1995 to 1997,
then -2X from 1998 through 2000.



I lcalth Expenditurc Projcctions 1989-2000
(In millions 1989 Porints and in % of GllP)
1989       1990       1991       1992        1993       1994        1995       1996       1997       1998        1999       2000
Scenario I
IPATlET COS                               244        29633       30763      31193      32382       33617      34899      36S77       36511      38267      40107      42036
)UFATIENFT COSTS                          24025      25396       27047      29582      32382      36326       39407      42491       453S0      47462      49251      51001
IIARMACKIlCAIL                            22500      23175      23870      24586       25324      26084       26866      27672      28502      29357       30238      31145
CALrfY MAIITEDNANCE                        3079       5250       5250        4750       4250       4250        4000       3750       36S0        3600       3SS0       3S00
UBUCI EALTni                               6664       6864       7070        7282       7500       7725        7957       8196       8442        8695       3956       9225
113R                                    2099       2162       2227        2294       2362       2433        2S06       2582       2659        2739       2821       2906
1N11 ADMINISIRA`iON                                                         1374        1374       1480       1458        1487       1517       1547        1578       1580
MOW ADMINISTRAlION                                                 600         600        612        624         637        649         662        676        689        703
PACILY UPGRADING                                       4850       4850        4850       5100       5100        6000       62S0       62a0        62S0       62a0       6250
lDT. CURR. HE9ALTII EXPEND.               86S11       92480      96827     101661      106187     112539      117730     123404     127293      132343    137190    142095
ax % of GD?                                S.0%       5.6%       6.2%        65%        67%        7.09b       7.1%       7.3%        7.3%       7A%        7.5%       7.6w
rOrTAL HEALTH EXPE3ND)rRES                .6911       97330     101677    i16Sll    111287        117639     123730      129654     133S43      13RS93    143440    148345
as % of GDP                                5.0%       5.9%       65%       6.1%         7.0%       73%         7.5%       7.7%       7.7%        7.0%       7.9%       7.9f
Scenario 2
NPAlENar COSr                               544      29633       30047      30450      30840       31216      3157S      32223       32860--.  33i4b       34091      346W
)?AfTl3iNr CODSS                          24025      25396       26945      29414      33           5919      38909      41970       44726      46.2       48394      50102
HARMACLILMCAL                             22500      22725      22952      23182       23414      23648       24121      24603      25-                    26109      26631
RAOIKY  MaflJ1~ANCE                        307        5250   oS20 .475                  4250       40          400  -      75: :                    - Q .0             3
tOUC HEALLTH                               6664       6864       707         72 I. 7               7           7957       3196        442:   -695  -         9S6  - 9ns
IE'R                                 ::2099        2162       2227        224 --62              2433        Z0         2-82       2929
ADMENISTRATION                                                           1374       134  :       480       1453       148        1S" :'1547 ::17                   1I- 0
OW ADMINISTRAFTON                                                600        600         612         624        637        649        :662        676        689      -03
CIsalrFY UFffRAJDING                    .               - -      4850  4850  4850   :5:S100   ;  ::5100    .6000          625         6250    -6250    : - 62S0   -: 6250
TCrO.   URR. HEALTH EXPEND.-               869111.  920Q0        9S091       99345     102426     107295   -11163        115459      119610     123063     126188    12932b
as    of GDP         -.                      0%       5.6%       6.0%        6.3%       6.4%       6.7%        6.7%       6.0%       699%      . 6.9        6.9%       6.9
ArAL HEA Nl         X       r              8 1        90         9 1        104195     10726      1           11n63      1217       128         1213         2438    135576
*%o(GDP                                    5.0%       5,9%       6.4%      -66%         68%        70%         7.1%       7.2%       7.2     -  7.3%        7.3%       7.2%
.Wam  Da.kaslmi  aatr f4iuiutz of lfaze an  Raforum within the Health Sectbr In Hosap,r, AIH, 1399
Ltn






-  103  -                                               ANNEX  6
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
(US$ thousand)
Unit                                                         Bass Costs            Physical Conting-   Escalatod Coat    TOTAL
of       Unit         Description                    _ncis                                                                   PROJECT
Input      Costs                                       Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign              COST
1. MARAGEMET DEVELUOPHCT AND PLAMUIB
1. 1 Prolect Hanaze.ent
1.11  Prolect Manaxement Unit (PMU)
m/month      15.0 LTconsHL(7):Proj manaUmt serv               0    3465       3465          0       173          0     4121       4121
m/month       6.0 ST Fellow:Project management                0       24        24          0         1          0        26        26
m/month       6.0 ST Fellow(3):english lang trg               0       36         36         0         2          0        40        40
package      12.6 Office Equipment                            4        9         13         0         1          4        10        14
annual       0.6 Equip O&M                                   2        1         3          0         0         2         2          4
package       3.8 PC Hardware/Peripherals                     4       11         15         0         1          5        12        17
annual       0.3 Compu O&M                                   3        3         6          0         0         4          4         8
package       1.3 PC Software                                 1        4          5         0         0          2         4         6
annual       0.1 PC Software license/upgrade                 1        1         2          0         0         1          2         3
package      12.6 Furniture: PMU office furniture            12        1         13         1         0         13         1        14
annual    129.9 Nonsal Oper Costs of PK)                   686       28       714        69          3       878        36        914
Subtotal Project Ninagmmnt:              712    3584       4296         71       182       909      4259      5168
1.2 Systems Planz.inx and Orauiisation
1.21 Systems Integration
m/month      15.0 LTconsHL(3):Sy%t plng/integratn             0    2700       2700          0       135          0     3270       3270
m/month      10.0 LTconsML(6):strategic syst plan             0    3600       3600          0       180          0     4361       4361
m/month       0.8 Increm Salary:analyst(2)                  103        0        103         5         0       126          0       126
1.2Z Systems Organization
Information Tecbnology Division
m/month      15.0 LTconsHLCl):Def organis structu             0      360       360          0        18          0       412       412
m/month       6.0 ST Fell(16):visit ITDs abroad               0       48        48          0         2          0        53        53
m/month      10.0 LTconsML(1):def organiz structu             0      240       240          0        12          0       274       274
unit        1.2 Furniture:computer desks                  278       24       302        28          2       333        29        361
unit        0.6 Furniture:computer output files            28        2        30          3         0        33         3        36
m/month       0.3 Increm Salary:ITD staff                  1483        0      1483         74         0      1850          0      1850
Operations Division
m/month      10.0 LTconzML(l):def organis structu             0      240       240          0        12         0       274        274
m/month       6.0 ST Fell(12):visit ODs abroad                0       72         72         0         4          0        82        82
m/month       0.3 Increm Salary:Maint admin proce           240        0       240         12         0       308          0       308
Computer Progra_er Training
m/month      10.0 LTconxML(4):organiza trg progra             0    1440       1440          0        72          0      1755      1755
m/month       6.0 ST Fell(4):visit install abroad             0       48         48         0         2          0        53        53
annual       0.6 ST Fell:tuition/exter progrmr t             0       84        84          0         4         0       103        103
package      25.1 AV/trg equipment                            7       18        25          1         2         9        20         29
annual       1.3 Equip O&M                                   4        3         6          0         0         5          3         8
package      0.21 Training manuals                          100        8       107         10         1       115          9       123
package      0.38 Computer based trg courses                 20       56        76          2         6        23         65        87
course       0.3 ST Fell:local analysis courses              0       13        13          0         1         0        16         16
m/month       0.3 Inrem Salary:Progrmr/trainees             506        0       506         25         0       617          0       617
Preparation of Procuremmt Packa*ge
m/month      18.0 STconaHL:hrd/sftw selct/bid doe             0      144        144         0         7          0       158       158
unit        3.0 Bid document printing                       6        0         6          1         0         6          1         7
Subtotal System Pl uing:                2774    9100    11874         161        461      3423    10941    14364



-  104  -                                            ANNEX  6
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
Detailed Project Coat lstimate
(USS thousand)
Unit                                                         Base Costs            Physical Conting-   Escalated Cost    TOTAL
of       Unit         Description                    _ncies                                                                  PROJECT
Input      Costs                                       Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreisn    Local   Foreign              COST
1. MANAGEMENT DEVELOEMNT AND PLAJNIPG
1.3  Plaimin  Develotient Unit (PDU)
1.31 Creation of PDU
m/month       4.0 LT Fell(3) Cash Benefits                    0      144        144         0         7          0       171       171
m/month       6.0 ST Fell:Tour contrib/elig inst              0       90         90         0         5          0       104       104
m/month       6.0 ST Fell:Tnur soc insur instit               0      180        180         0         9          0       218       218
m/month       6.0 ST Fell:Remuneratn spclst serv              0       72         72         0         4          0        84        84
m/month       6.0 ST Fell:Ramuneratn hosp serv                0       72         72         0         4          0        86        86
m/month       6.0 ST Fell:Admin allied benefits p             0      108        108         0         5          0       128       128
package      25.1 Office Equipment:PDU                       15       35         50         1         4         17        42        59
annual       1.3 Equip O&M                                   7        5        11          1         0         9          6        15
package      12.6 Computer Hardware/Peripherals               7       18         25         1         2          9        21        30
annual       1.0 Compu O&M                                   5        5         9          0         0         6          6        12
package      23.0 Computer software                           6       17        23          1         2          7        20        27
annual       1.8 Software license/upgrade                    2        7          9         0         1         3          9        12
package    100.0 Training materials                         465       35       500         46         4       601         46       646
annual      24.0 Nonsal Oper Costs                         115        5       120         12         0       149          6       155
1.31 Development of Policy
X Spread   500.0 Study:Eligib/contrib policy                  0      500       500          0        25          0       589       589
3 Spread   500.0 Study:Cash benefits                          0      500       500          0        25          0       589       589
S Spread  1000.0 Study:Health provider reimbur                0    1000       1000          0        50          0      1211      1211
%Spread  1000.0 Dev analyt tools for hosp reimb               0    1000       1000          0        50          0     1224       1224
%Spread  1000.0 Study:Pharma expend controls                  0    1000       1000          0        50          0     1188       1188
X Spread   500.0 Study:Admin policy coord allied              0      500       500          0        25          0      594        594
Subtotal Planning Developnt Unit: 622    5292              5914         62       271       800      6340      7141
1.4 Preinvestment Study
1.41 Preparation of Preinvestmoent Studv
I Spread  2000.0 Study:Prepare future project                 0    2000       2000          0       100          0     2420       2420
Subtotal Preinvestamt Study:               0    2000       2000          0       100         0      2420      2420



-  105  -                                            ANNEX  6
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSUR1CE PROJECT
Detailed Project Coet h timatet
(USS thousand)
Unit                                                         Base Costs            Physical Conting-   Escalated Cost    TOTAL
of       Unit         Description                    _ncies                                                                  PROJECT
Input      Costs                                       Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign              COST
2. OPERATIONAL INlFASTRIETUCT
2.1 Application Software
2.11  Personal Identification and Eligibility Recording
m/month      18.0 STconsHL(4):design *ligib datab             0      432       432          0        22          0       494       494
m/month       0.8 Incram Salary:xnalystCl)                   47        0         47         2         0         58         0        58
m/month      12.0 STconsHL(1):program elig databa             0       72         72         0         4          0        85        85
m/month       0.6 Incrm Salary:programmers(4)               109        0       109          5         0       138          0       138
m/month       8.0 STconsLL(1):test eligib databas             0       24        24          0         1         0         28        28
m/month       0.4 Increm Salary:tester(3)                    46        0        46          2         0        58          0        58
m/month      15.0 LTconsHL(7): eligib record desi             0    1260       1260          0        63          0     1441       1441
rn/month      0.8 Incr  m Salary:analyst(2)                  94        0        94          5         0       115          0       115
r/month      10.0 LTconsHL(2): elisib record pro6             0      240       240          0        12          0      285        285
m/month       0.6 Increm Salary:progr ammers(7)             218        0       218         11         0       274          0       274
m/month       5.0 LTconsHL(l):twst elig record                0       90        90          0         5          0       108       108
m/month       0.4 Increm Salary:tester(2)                    37        0         37         2         0        47          0        47
m/month       0.4 Increm Salary:maintenance(9)              126        0        126         6         0       162          0       162
m/month       5.0 LTconsLL(.)design admin proc/el             0       45         45         0         2          0        53        53
m/month       0.8 Increm Salary:analyst(2)                   70        0         70         4         0        68          0        88
2.12 Contribution Collection
m/month      15.0 LTconsHL(9):analys/design appli             0    2430       2430          0       122          0     2814       2814
m/month       0.8 Increm Salary:analyst(2)                   94        0        94          5         0       115          0       115
m/month      10.0 LTconsML(4):programming                     0      480       480          0        24         0        570       570
m/month       0.6 Increm Salary:programmers(12)             374        0       374         19         0       470          0       470
m/month       5.0 LTconsLL(l):testing                         0      120       120          0         6         0        145       145
m/month       0.4 Increm Salary:tester(2)                    37        0        37          2         0        47          0        47
m/month       0.4 Increm Salary:maintenance(lZ)             168        0       168          6         0       215          0       215
m/month       5.0 LTconaLL(l)design admin procedu             0       60        60          0         3         0         73        73
m/month       0.8 Increm Salary:analyst(2)                   61        0        61          3         0        77          0        77
2.13 Benefit Payment
Cyclic Pay.ents
m/month      15.0 LTconsHL(9):analys/deaign appli             0    2430       2430          0       122         0      3033       3033
m/month       0.8 Incram Salary:analyst(5)                  140        0       140          7         0       180          0       180
m/month      10.0 LTconsML(4):prograhming                     0      480       480          0        24          0      614        614
m/month       0.6 Increm Salary:programmera(15)             234        0       234         12         0       305          0       305
m/month        5.0 LTconsLL(l):testing                        0       90         90         0         5         0        117       117
m/month       0.4 Increm Salary:tester(3)                    14        0         14         1         0        18          0        18
m/month        5.0 LTconsLL()design admin procedu            0       60         60         0         3         0         77        77
m/month       0.8 Increm Salary:anslyst(4)                   75        0         75         4         0        98          0        98
Jmm-Cyclic Paymats
m/month      15.0 LTconcHL(9):analys/desiSn *ppli             0    2430       2430          0       122         0      3071      3071
m/month       0.8 Increm Salary:analyst(5)                  117        0       117          6         0       151          0       151
m/month      10.0 LTconsML(4):programming                     0      480       480          0        24         0       626        626
m/month       0.6 Increa  Salary:programmers(26)            249        0       249         12         0       325          0       325
m/month       5.0 LTconcLL(1):testirng                        0       S0        60          0         3         0         78        78
m/month       0.4 Increm Salary:tester(3)                    14        0         14         1         0        18          0        18
m/month       5.0 LTconsLL(1)design admin procedu             0       60         S0         0         3         0         80        80
m/month       0.8 Increm Salary:analyst(4)                   19        0         19         1         0        25          0        25



- 106  -                                             ANNEX  6
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimatea
(USS thousand)
Unit                                                         Base Costs            Physical Conting-   Escalated Cost    TOTAL
of       Unit         Description                                                            encies                          PROJECT
Input      Costs                                       Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign              COST
2. OPERATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE
2.1 Application Software
2.14  Health Care Provider Reimbursement
Primary Care Rei buraeont
m/month      18.0 STconsHL(3):analys/design appli             0      486       486          0        24          0       556       556
m/month       0.8 Increm Salary:analyst(1)                   44         0        44         2         0         55         0        55
m/month      12.0 STconsML(2):programming                     a      144        144         0         7          0       171       171
m/month       0.6 Increm Salary:programmers(9)              245        0       245         12         0       311          0       311
m/month      18.0 STconsHL(l):testing                         0      216       216          0        11          0       261       261
m/month       0.4 Increm Salary:tester(3)                    46        0         46         2         0         58         0        58
m/month       0.4 Increm Salary:maintenance(3)               28        0         28         1         0         36         0        36
m/month       8.0 STconsLL(1)design admin procedu             0       48         48         0         2          0        59        59
m/month       0.8 Increm Salary:analyst(3)                   70         0        70         4         0         90         0        90
Pharmaceutical Benefits
m/month      18.0 STconsHL(1):softw dev/data coll             0      108        108         0         5          0       128       128
m/month      18.0 STconsHL(9):analys/design appli             0    1458       1458          0        73          0      1753      1753
m/month       0.8 Increm Salary:analyst(2)                   65        0         65         3         0         83         0        83
m/month      12.0 STconsML(2):programming                     0      216       216          0        11          0       260       260
m/month       0.6 Increm Salary:programmers(9)              228        0       228         11         0       290          0       290
m/month       8.0 STconsLL(M):testing                         0       72         72         0         4          0        90        90
m/month       0.4 Increm Salary:tester(3)                    35         0        35         2         0         45         0        45
m/month       0.4 Increm Salary:maintenance(9)               70         0        70         4         0        92          0        92
m/month       8.0 STconsLL(1)design admin procedu             0       72         72         0         4          0        92        92
m/month       0.8 Increm Salary:analyst(4)                   65        0         65         3         0        86          0        86
Provider Registration
m/month      15.0 LTconsHL(3):analys/design appli             0      135        135         0         7          0       160       160
m/month       0.8 Increm Salary:analyst(1)                   26        0         26         1         0        32          0        32
m/month      10.0 LTconsML(1):programming                     0       30         30         0         2          0        36        36
m/month       0.6 Increm Salary:programmers(3)               76        0         76         4         0        97          0        97
m/month       0.4 Increm Salary:tester(l)                    15        0         15         1         0         19         0        19
m/month       0.4 Increm Salary:maintenance(l.75)            25        0        25          1         0        31          0        31
Hospital Reimbursement
m/month      18.0 STconsHL(l):softw dev/data coll             0      108       108          0         5          0       138       138
m/month      18.0 STconsHL(9):analys/design appli             0    1458       1458          0        73          0     1865       1865
m/month       0.8 Increm Salary:analyst(2)                   33        0         33         2         0        43          0        43
m/month      12.0 STconsML(2):programming                     0      216       216          0        11          0      283        283
m/month       0.6 Increm Salary:programmers(9)               88        0         88         4         0       116          0       116
m/month       8.0 STconaLL(l):testing                         0       72         72         0         4          0        96        96
m/month       0.4 Increm Salary:tester(3)                    11        0         11         1         0         14         0        14
m/month       0.4 Increm Salary:maintenance(6)               28        0        28          1         0        37          0        37
m/month       8.0 STconsLL()design admin procedu             0       72         72         0         4          0        96        96
m/month       0.6 Increm Salary:analyst(4)                   23        0        23          1         0        31          0        31
package      75.4 PC server pack w/ 4-6 work stat            22       53        75          2         5        28         66        94
annual       6.0 Compu O&M                                   9        9        18          1         1        12        12         24
package       1.3 LAN Software                                0        1          1         0         0         0          1         2
annual       0.1 Software license/upgrade                    0        0         0          0         0         0         0          1
package       2.5 DBMS Software                               1        2          3         0         0          1         2         3
annual       0.2 Software license/upgrade                    0        1         1          0         0         0          1         1
package      18.9 Financial Managmt Software                  5       14         19         0         1         6         17        23
annual       1.5 Software license/upgrade                    2        4         6          0         0         2         6          8



- 107  -                                            ANNEX  6
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
(USS thouxand)
Unit                                                        Base Coats           Physical Conting-   Escalated Cost    TOTAL
of      Unit          Description                                                           *ncies                         PROJECT
Input      Costs                                      Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign             COST
2. OPERATICOAL IUFRASTRDCTURR
2.1 Application Software
2.14 Health Care Provider Reimbursement
SpeciaList Reimbursemnt Procurement Package
package      75.4 PC Server package w/ 4-6 wrksta           22       53        75         2          5        28        66        94
annual       6.0 Compu O&M                                  9        9        18         1         1         12        12        24
package       1.3 LAN Software                               0        1         1         0          0         0         1         2
annual       0.1 Software license/upgrade                   0        0         0         0         0          0         0         1
package       2.5 DBMS Software                              1        2         3         0          0         1         2         3
annual       0.2 Software license/upgrade                   0        1         1         0         0          0         1         1
package      18.9 Financial Managmt Software                 5       14        19         0          1         6        17        23
annual       1.5 Software license/upgrade                   2        4         6         0         0          2         6         8
2.15 Financial Management
m/month      18.0 STconsHL:Rastruct acctg practic            0      270       270         0         14         0       334       334
m/month      15.0 LTconsHL:Restructure acctg prac            0      270       270          0        14         0       317       317
m/month       4.0 LT Fell(2):Financial Management            0      192       192          0        10         0       232       232
r/month       6.0 ST Fall:Observa finan mgmt prac            0       24        24          0         1         0        27        27
X Spread  3000.0 Plan/implem Fin Mgt/accru acct              0    3000       3000         0       150          0     3563      3563
Subtotal Application Software:         3642   20179    23821         186      1017      4650    24522    29172



-  108  -                                            ANNEX  6
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
(USS thousand)
Unit                                                         Base Costs            Physical Conting-   Escalated Cost    TOTAL
of       Unit         Description                                                            encies                          PROJECT
Input      Costs                                       Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign              COST
2. OPERATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE
2.2 Technological Infrastructure
2.21 Data Processing Ecquipment and Facilities
mip       125.7 Mainframe processing power              10332   24850      35182       1033      2485     13401    32229    45630
annual      10.1 Mainframe O&M                            2665    2642       5307       267        264      3634      3603      7237
gbyte       17.1 Disk storage                             3536    8504      12040        354       850      4584     11024      15608
annual       1.4 Disk storage O&M                          918      910      1828         92        91      1251      1240      2492
track       17.1 Cartridge drives(18 track)                181      435       616         18        43       231        556       788
annual       1.4 Cartridge drive O&M                        56       55       111          6         6        75         75       150
unit        7.8 Cartridges(OOOs)                           26       52        78          3         5        33         67       100
unit        1.2 Terminals                                 906    2178       3084         91       218      1185      2850       4035
annual       0.1 Terminals O&M                             205      203       408         20        20       280       278        558
unit        7.8 Terminal controllers                      685    1647       2332         68       165       894      2151      3046
annual       0.6 Terminal Controllers 0&M                  159      158       317         16        16       218       216        434
unit        5.0 Intelligent workstations                  716     1722      2438         72       172       857      2062      2920
annual       0.4 Workstation O&M                           392      388       780         39        39       516       511       1027
unit        1.0 Small low-volume printers                 132      317       448         13        32       165       396        560
annual       0.1 Printer O&M                                52       52       104          5         5        69         69       138
package     486.1 System software                           126      360       486         13        36       157        448       605
annual    808.7 System software mainten/upgrade            629    1797       2426         63       180       843      2409       3253
m/month       6.0 ST Fell(3):tour computer instal             0       36         36         0         2          0        41        41
m/month      18.0 STconsHL:setup computer environ             0       90         90         0          5         0       103       103
X Spread  1500.0 Construction:bldg retrofit (150    1389             111      1500        139        11      1664        133      1797
X Spread    30.0 Build O&M                                  115         5       120        12         0       152          6       158
X Spread   150.0 Arch/engg serv for bldg retrofi              0      150        150         0         8          0       171       171
package    628.3 Uninterrup power supply 500KVA             185      444        628        18        44       221        531       752
annual      62.8 UPS Equip O&M                             146      105       251         15        11       193        138       331
m/month      12.0 STconsML:hardware proc/inst                 0       36         36         0         2          0        42        42
m/month      12.0 STconsML:software proc/inst                 0       48         48         0         2          0        57        57
m/month       6.0 ST Fell(3):tour communic networ             0        18        18         0          1         0        21        21
m/month      18.0 STconsHL(l):network config desi             0        72        72         0         4          0        85        85
% Spread   277.4 Equipmt: Communications network             81      196       277          8        20       106       255        361
annual    662.3 Nonsal oper:Telecomm line renta    1781              74      1855        178         7      2388        99      2487
annual   3831.2 Nonsal oper:Transmission charge    6243    4485             10727       624        448      8371      6014     14385
package    662.0 Communications controller                  194      468       662         19        47       242        582       823
annual      66.2 Communications controller O&M             116       83       199         12         8       155       111        266
package    242.5 OMR Multipage enveloper                     71      171       243          7        17         89       213       302
annual      24.3 Enveloper O&M                              42       30        73          4         3        57         41        98
annual      0.30 Nonsal oper:Replacemt cards/mai           148      302       450         15        30       198       405        603
annual    0.130 Nonsal oper:Postage(000s):chequ           1793      155      1948        179        15      2405       207      2612
annual    0.130 Nonsal oper:Postage(OOOs):mail             179       15       195         18         2       240        21        261
annual    0.008 Nonsal oper:Productn cheques/vo           1403      121      1524        140        12      1881        162     2044
annual    540.0 Nonsal oper:Power/airconditioni           1555       65      1620        156         6      2086         87     2172
annual      45.0 Nonsal oper:Offsite tape storag           130        5       135         13         1       174          7       181
annual      1558 Nonsal oper:Computer paper/cons          1535    3140       4675        154       314      2058      4210      6269
annual       7.6 Nonsal oper:Cartridges(OOOs)               15       30        45          1         3        20        42         62



- 109  -                                             ANNEX  6
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
(USS thousand)
Unit                                                         Base Costs            Physical Conting-   Escalated Cost    TOTAL
of       Unit         Description                                                            encies                          PROJECT
Input      Costs                                       Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign              COST
2. OPERATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE
2.2 Technological Infrastructure
2.22  Card Production Equiprnent and Facilities
m/month      12.0 STconsML:card function design               0       12         12         0         1          0        14        14
m/month       6.0 ST Fell(3):observe card functio             0       i8         18         0         1          0        21        21
m/month       6.0 ST Fell(3):observe card operati             0       18         18         0         1          0        21        21
m/month      12.0 STconsML:card eqp procmt                    0       36        36          0         2          0        43        43
x Spread       45 Construction:card productn room            42        3        45          4         0        52          4        56
X Spread      0.9 Build O&M                                   3        0         3          0         0         3          0         4
package     466.4 Card productn equip                       548    1318       1866         55       132       681      1639       2321
annual      23.3 Equip O&M                                 163      117       280         16        12       218       157        375
package    388.7 Onsert card addressing equip               114      275       389         11        27       142        341       483
annual      38.9 Equip O&M                                  68       49       117          7         5        91        65        156
package      46.6 Enveloping equipment                       14       33        47          1         3        17         41        58
annual       4.7 Equip O&M                                   8        6        14          1         1        11          8        19
unit       0.16 Plastic cards('000)                       552    1128       1680        55        113       686      1403      2090
unit       0.03 Envelopes('OOOs)                          251       22       273        25          2       312        27       339
unit      0.130 Postage('000s)                           1255      108      1364       126         11      1562       135      1696
mn/month      0.3 Increm Salary:Overtime/card pro            80        0        80          4         0        99          0        99
2.23 Telephones
m/month      12.0 STconsML:Prep specs/bid eval                0       36        36          0         2          0        40        40
m/month      12.0 Install PABX equip/train staff              0       72        72          0         4          0        79        79
package   2847.2 PABX equipment                             836    2011       2847         84       201       964      2318       3282
annual    142.4 Equip O&M                                  414      298       712        41         30       536       385       920
package     137.3 PABX software                              36      102       137          4        10        41        117       158
annual      11.0 Software license/upgrade                   14       41        55          1         4        18        53         71
annual      29.0 Nonsal Oper Costs                         153        6       160        15          1       196         8       204
2.24  Office Ecruipment Packages
package      12.6 Office Equipment:service office           738    1775       2513         74       177       927      2229       3156
annual       0.6 Equip O&M                                 201      144       346        20         14       270       194       463
package       6.3 Furniture: Service Offices furn    1157            100      1257        116        10      1453        125      1578
package      62.8 Computer Hardware:Hosp Reimb               18       44        63          2         4        22         53        75
annual       3.1 Compu O&M                                   6        6        13          1         1         8         8         17
package      62.8 Computer Hardware:Spclst Reimb             18       44         63         2         4        22         53        75
annual       3.1 Compu O&W                                   6        6        13          1         1         8         8         17
Subtotal Technological Infrastr:  45532   64554   110086             4549      6423    59432    83562   142994
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    53282  104709   157990         5029       8454    69214   132044   201258






CHART 7.1: PENSIONS ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
t_  _  lou"ibF |- Itj l"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~114                               ns_n 1 I m 
It  T_____m____                  _t_l_        _Q    3  Q4  Q 02                                                    Q3 I Q4 I QI  Q2  Q03  Q4  Q4 0  Ql Q
43    2.1.4 HcaS Com Prwvida Rtiullxaru.C       .0 _
44       j.1a4.1              raile t                                md PK I  _ _ _   _ _                         - _   _  _   
--         2.1.4.2 tdb.ru    C* tIDcatdn                            _ ___
41Anolysis                                90
4         code                                 26.2                           Z
65 ...  .?.Ac.Si ReinTed                      260 :
4   _    t~~~Imcd.¢                    _    260,                                   _
66   2     t_ 3 Tacbmo3~.ict ter.d,utiwe  ____20
_7    2.3.3 Dna. Pmcau uuim2 Coienuio Cbeceint 2l 40_
2.1.4.3e.e I^i eil,4_ _
5t          co.,i                              39  ]r
-XI         Tcd                                iv40                                                             cr_   _
_8          Proceducca                         3 40                                                                     -    __ __
0   2 1.4 4 iospgIu Rcimnbr,m,ni         10 41.0                                                                  t     _ = _ _ _ _
2 Codc                                  9 40 B   &   u  T n r   4 
62         Te I9a&.qe
6    3     Ptocadgco                           39tl__1    .|||_|F_*
o4   2 2 I moncia Me..potmc                   260 60_                                                                                 I      I                   1
-5 2.2.1 Acconatis R Itlwuc & Softwsc      260 10__* * **  -;_-; _ ** 
Ql2.1.1 Plstroi"in A4lwK sd E&cilifs        13 OD                                                                                              MI
1   2.1. 1.1 Co_c!t!! RRR_               3220r.               -  *_      4 1 1 1 1 1
21 2.1..2 Ir_", pwtc                     1e4.40     .'1t        
70       2311 Hiid-it                         206. ll;[1         ; j§
] _u    2.3.1 Tda 0i                
2.3.3.1 ?AIX, Hodv aAe CAll Du aiba  fl.t
75    2.3.4 Offiscs £aiemot !cAgc a1 20
I  .    .,  l l    l l l l l 1111   1 1 1 1 1    11  11~~~~~~
I  I I I 1 <   LIL I I I I I I I I t 11 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



- 112 -                            ANNEX 7
Ek            r                                      1         1  F~9 
_~~~ a                         l                  t -   va 
0         . .  --j!  
as~   X-
* '..                 0 .  .  - .
7*1 ITT-19112 -~*



- 113  -                                                       ANNEX  7
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Type        Unit                                       --------Distribution of Quantities-------  Total
of   of                                                               - ------Qty of
Component        Input      Input                                        Yrl   YrZ   Yr3   Yr4   Yr5   Yr6   Yr7   Input
Fiscal   1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
1. M&NAGEMENT DEVELOFYENT AND PLANNING
1.1  ProJect Managment
1.11 Proiect Management Unit (PMU)
Consultant  m/month  LTconsHL(7):Proj managmt serv                  84    84    42    14        7           231
Fellowship  m/month  ST Fellow:Project management              4                                              4
Fellowship  m/month  ST Fellow(3):english lang trg             6                                              6
Equipment  package  Office Equipment                          1                                              1
Maintenance  annual  Equip O&M                                       1      1      1     1      1
Computer   package  PC Hardware/Peripherals                   4                                              4
Maintenance  annual  Compu O&M                                       4      4      4     4      4
Software   package  PC Software                              4                                               4
License    annual  PC Software license/upgrade                     4      4     4      4      4
Furniture  package  Furniture: PMU office furniture           1                                              1
Recurrent    annual  Nonsal Oper Costs of PMU               0.5      1      1      1     1      1             6
1.2  Systems Planninx and Organization
1.21   Systems Integration
Consultant  m/month  LTconsHL(3):Syst plng/integratn    18    36    36    36    36    18                    180
Consultant  m/month  LTconsML(6):strategic syst plan    36    72    72    72    72    36                    360
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:analyst(2)                12    24    24    24    24    24               132
1.22   Systems Organization
Information Technology Division
Consultant  m/month  LTconsHL(l):Def organiz structu           6    12      6                                24
Fellowship  m/month  ST Fell(16):visit ITDs abroad             8                                              8
Consultant  m/month  LTconsML(1):def organiz structu           6    12      6                                24
Furniture    unit   Furniture:computer desks                      250                                      250
Furniture    unit   Furniture:computer output files                50                                       50
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:ITD staff                       360  1020  1020  1020  1020           4,440
Operations Division
Consultant  m/month  LTconsML(l):def organiz structu           6    12      6                                24
Fellowship  m/month  ST Fell(12):visit ODs abroad                   12                                       12
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:Maint admin proced                           240   240   240             720
Computer Programmer Training
Consultant  m/month  LTconsML(4):organize trg programs              48    24    24    24    24              144
Fellowship  m/month  ST Fell(4):visit install abroad           8                                              8
Fellowship   annual  ST Fell:tuition/exter progrmr trg              35    35    20    20    20              130
Equipment  package  AV/trg equipment                          1                                              1
Maintenance  annual  Equip O&M                                       1      1      1     1      1
Software   package  Training manuals                       500                                             500
Software   package  Computer based trg courses             200                                             200
Fellowship   course  ST Fell:local analysis courses                 10    10    10    10    10               50
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:Progrmr/trainees                420   420   240   240   240             1560
Preparation of Procurement Packages
Consultant  m/month  STconsHL:hrd/sftw selct/bid doc           8                                              8
Materials      unit   Bid document printing                    1     1                                        2



- 114  -                                                      ANNEX  7
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Type        Unit                                      --------Dirtribution of Quantities-------  Total
of         of                                        ------ ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- Qty of
Component        Input      Input                                       Yrl   Tr2   Tr3   Tr4   Yr5   Tr6   Tr7   Input
Fiscal   1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
1. MAXAGEY T DKVKLORNKYT AND PLAANIUS
1.3  Plamminx Develoiant Unit (PDU)
1.31 Creation of PDU
Fellowship  m/month  LT Foll(3) Cash Benefits                      12    12    12                           36
Fellowship  m/month  ST Fcl1:Tour contrib/slig inst           3     6      6                                15
Fellowship  m/month  ST Fcll:Tour soc insur instit            5     5      5     5      5      5            30
Fellowship  m/month  ST Fcll:Remuneratn spclst serv                 6      6                                12
Fellowship  m/month  ST Fell:Remuneratn hosp s*rv                   4      4     4                          12
Fellowship  m/month  ST Fell:Admin allied benefits policy           6      6     6                          18
Equipment  package  Office Equipment:PDU                     1     1                                        2
Maintenance  annual  Equip 06M                                      1      2     2      2      2
Computer   package  Computer Hardware/Peripherals            1     1                                        2
Maintenance  annual  Compu 06M                                      1      2     2      2     2
Software   package  Computer software                        1                                              1
License    annual  Software license/upgrade                       1      1     1      1     1
Software   package  Training materials                             1      1     1      1     1              5
Recurrent    annual  Nonsal Oper Costs                              1      1     1      1      1             5
1.32  Development of Policy
Development X Spread Study:Eligib/contrib policy             10X   30%   30%   30X                         100X
Devclopmcnt I Spread Study:Cash benefits                     10%   30%   301   30X                         100%
Development I Spread Study:Health provider raimbur                 251   25%   25%   25X                   100%
Development X Spread Dev analyt tools for hoap reimbur             10X   30%   30%   30%                   100%
Development X Spread Study:Pharma expend controls                  33%   33%   33%                         100X
Development % Spread Study:Admin policy coord allied benef    33%   33%   33%                              1002
1.4  Preinvertmnt Study
1.41 Prenaration of Pr.investment Study
Development X Spread Study:Prcpare future project                         50%   50%                        100%



- 115  -                                                       ANNEX  7
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Typ-        urit                                       --------Distribution of Quantities-------  Total
of          of                                        ------ ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- Qty of
Component        Input      Input                                        Yrl   YrZ   Yr3   Yr4   YrS   Yr6   Yr7   Input
Fiscal   1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
2. OPERATIOEAL INFRASTRLCTURE
2.1 AVDIpication Software
2.11 Personal Identification and Elixibility Recording
Consultant  m/month  STconsHL(4):design eligib database             24                                       24
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:analyst(l)                       12    12    12    12    12               60
Consultant  m/month  STconsML(l):program elig database                      6                                 6
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:programmers(4)                         24    48    48    48              168
Consultant  m/month  STconsLL(l):test eligib database                       3                                 3
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:tester(3)                                9    36    36    36             117
Consultant  m/month  LTconsHL(7): eligib record design              84                                       84
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:analyst(2)                       24    24    24    24    24              120
Consultant  m/month  LTconsHL(2): eligib record prog                       24                                24
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:programmers(7)                         84    84    84    84              336
Consultant  m/month  LTconsHL(l):test elig record                          12      6                         18
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:tester(2)                              24    24    24    24               96
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:maintenance(9)                               108   108   108             324
Consultant  m/month  LTconsLL(l)design adnin proc/elig                      9                                 9
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:analyst(2)                              18    24    24    24              90
2.12 Contribution Collection
Consultant  m/month  LTconsHL(9):analys/design applic              108    54                                162
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:analyst(2)                       24    24    24    24    24              120
Consultant  m/month  LTconsML(4):prograrmning                              48                                48
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:programmers(12)                        144   144   144   144             576
Consultant  m/month  LTconsLL(l):testing                                   12    12                          24
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:tester(2)                              24    24    24    24               96
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:maintenance(12)                              144   144   144             432
Consultant  m/month  LTconsLL(l)design admin procedures                     3      9                         12
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:analyst(2)                               6    24    24    24              78
2.13 Benefit Payment
Cyclic Paymnts
Consultant  m/month  LTconsdL(9):analys/design applic                           108    54                   162
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:analyst(5)                                    60    60    60             180
Consultant  m/month  LTconsML(4) :programming                                           48                   48
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:programmers(15)                                     180   180            360
Consultant  m/month  LTconsLL(l) :testing                                               12      6            18
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:tester(3)                                            18    18             36
Consultant  m/month  LTconsLL(l)design admin procedures                                 12                   12
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:analyst(4)                                           48    48             96
Non-Cyclic Payments
Consultant  m/month  LTconsHL(9):analys/design applic                            54   108                   162
Salary    m/month  Incremn Salary:analyst(5)                                   30    60    60             150
Consultant  m/month  LTconsML(4) :programming                                           24    24             48
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:programmers(16)                                     192   192            384
Consultant  m/month  LTconsLL(l) :testing                                                6      6            12
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:tester(3)                                            18    18             36
Consultant  m/month  LTconsLL(l)design admin procedures                                        12            12
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:analyst(4)                                                 24             24



- 116  -                                                       ANNEX  7
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Type        Unit                                       --------Distribution of Quantities-------  Total
of  of  -- -Qty of
Component        Input      Input                                         Yrl   Yr2   Yr3   YrA   Yr5   Yr6   Yr7   Input
Fiscal   1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
2. OPERATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE
2.1 Application Software
2.14 Health Care Provider Reimbursement
Primary Care Reinbursemnt
Consultant  m/month  STconsHL(3):snalys/design applic               27                                       27
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:analyst(l)                        9    12    12    12    12               57
Consultant  m/month  STconaML(2):programming                               12                                12
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:progrsmmers(9)                          54   108   108   108             378
Consultant  m/month  STconsHL(1):testing                                    6      6                         12
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:tester(3)                                9    36    36    36             117
Salary    m/month  Incram Salary:maintenance(3)                                24    24    24              72
Consultant  m/month  STconaLL(l)design admin procedures                            6                          6
Salary    m/month  Incrnm Salary:analyst(3)                                    18    36    36              90
Pharmaceutical Benefits
Consultant  m/month  STconsHL(l):softw dev/data collect                     6                                 6
Consultant  m/month  STconsHL(9):analys/design applic                      54    27                          81
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:anslyst(2)                              12    24    24    24              84
Consultant  m/month  STconsML(2):programming                               12      6                         18
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:programmers(9)                         27   108   108   108              351
Consultant  m/month  STconaLL(1) testing                                           6     3                    9
Salary    m/month  Incremn Salary:tester(3)                                    18    36    36              90
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:maintenance(9)                                       72   108            180
Consultant  m/month  STconsLL(1)design admin procedures                                  9                    9
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:analyst(4)                                           36    48             84
Provider Registration
Consultant  m/month  LTconsHL(3):analys/design applic                       9                                 9
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:analyst(1)                               3    12    12       6            33
Consultant  m/month  LTconaML(1):programming                                3                                 3
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:programmers(3)                           9    36    36    36             117
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:tester(1)                                3    12    12    12              39
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:maintenance(l.75)                             21    21    21              63
Hospital Raimburm-ennt
Consultant  m/month  STconsHL(l):softw dev/data collect                                  6                    6
Consultant  m/month  STconsHL(9):analys/design applic                                   81                   81
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:analyst(2)                                           18    24             42
Consultant  m/month  STconxML(2) :programming                                            6    12             18
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:prograsmers(9)                                       27   108            135
Consultant  m/month  STconsLL(1) testing                                                        9             9
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:tester(3)                                                  27             27
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:maintenance(6)                                             72             72
Consultant  m/month  STconsLL(1)design admin procedures                                         9             9
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary:analyst(4)                                                 36             36
Computer   package  PC server pack w/ 4-6 work statns                      1                                 1
Maintenance  annual  Compu O&M                                       0      0     1      1      1
Software   package  LAN Software                                           1                                 1
License    annual  Software license/upgrade                        0     0      1      1     1      1
Software   package  DBMS Software                                          1                                 1
License    annual  Software license/upgrade                        0     0      1      1     1      1
Software   package  Financial Managmt Software                             1                                 1
License    annual  Software license/upgrade                        0      0     1      1      1     1



- 117  -                                                       ANNEX  7
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Type        Unit                                       --------DistzibutLoa of Qu mtitie -------  Total
of          of                                        ------  ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- --- - -  Q ty of
Cousyonct        input      Input                                       TYl   Ir2   rSr          IA   Ir5    rO,  Yr7   Input
Fiscal   1993  1904  1005  1906  1907  1996  1999
2, OPERATIOEAL INFRASTRUCTURE
2.1 Application Software
2.14 Health Care Provider Reimbursement (cont.)
Spcialiat Baimburseant Procur-ment Package
Computer   package  PC Server package wl 4-6 wrkstatns                     1                                 1
Maintenance  annual  Compu O6M                                       0      0      1     1      1
Software   package  LAN Software                                           1                                 1
License    annual  Software license/upgrade                        0      0     1      1      1     1
Software   package  DBMS Software                                          1                                 1
License    annual  Software license/upgrade                        0      0     1      1      1     1
Software   package  Financial Managmt Software                             1                                 1
License      nnual  Software license/upgrade                       0      0     1      1      1     1
2.15  Financial Management
Consultant  m/month  STconsHL:Restruct acctg practic           6                                9            15
Consultant  m/month  LTconsHL:Restructure acctg practices            6    12                                 18
Fellowship  m/month  LT Fell(2):Financial Management                 6    18    18       6                   48
Fellowship  m/month  ST Fell:Observe finan mgmt pract                4                                        4
Development X Spread Plan/implhm Fin Met/accru acct syst            33X   33X   331                         100%



- 118  -                                                      ANNEX  7
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Type       unit                                       ----     Distribution of Quantitieo-------  Total
of  of --- -Qty of
Compoo nt        Input      Input                                       Yrl   Yr2   Tr3   Yr4   Yr5   Yr6   Yr7   Input
Fiscal   1903  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
2. OPERATIO AL INFRABTDICTURZ
2.2 Toebnoloxical Ilfruatructuru
2.21 _ta Processing Eouiwment and Facilities
Computer      mip    Mainframe processing power                          40   168    72                  280
Maintenance  annual  Mainframe OM                                  0      0    40   208   280
Computer    gbyto   Disk storage                                        105   422   177                  704
Maintenanco  annual  Disk storage 06M                              0      0   105   527   704
Computer    track   Cartridge drivos(18 track)                           18     9      9                  36
Maintonance  annual  Cartridge drive 06M                            0      0    18    27    36
Matorials      unit   Cartridges(OOOs)                                          10                          10
Computer      unit   Terminals                                          265  1200  1180                 2645
Maintenance  annual  Terminals 06M                                  0      0   265  1465  2645
Computor      unit   Terminal controllers                                30   150   120                  300
Maintenance  annual  Terminal Controllers O&M                       0      0    30   180   300
Computer      unit   Intelligent workstations                    485                                     485
Maintenance  annual  Workstation 06M                                0   485   485   485   485
Computer      unit   Small low-volume printers                   200    46   150    50                   446
Maintenance  annual  Printer O0M                                    0   200   246   396   446
Software   package  System software                                       1                                1
License    annual  Syat.m software mainten/upgrado                             1      1     1
Followship  m/month  ST Fe11(3):tour computer installations    6                                            6
Consultant  m/month  STconsHL:setup computer environmt              5                                        5
Buildings  I Spread Construction:bldg retrofit (1500m2)          100X                                    1001
Maintenance X Spread Build 06M                                      0X  100X  1001  100X  100X
Consultant  Z Spread Arch/ongg serv for bldg retrofit             100X                                    100%
Equipment  package  Uninterrup power supply 500KVA                 1                                       1
Maintenance  annual  UPS Equip 06M                                  0      1     1      1     1
Consultant  m/month  STconsML :hardware proc/inst                   1      2                                3
Consultant  m/month  STconsML:software proc/inst                           4                                4
Fellowship  m/month  ST Fll(3):tour communic networks                     3                                3
Consultant  r/month  STconsHL(l):network config design                     4                                4
Equipment  I Spread Equipmt: Coamkunications notwork                    20X   40X   401                  100X
Recurrent    annual  Ronsal oper:Telecomm line rental                    0.2   0.6   1.0   1.0              3
Recurrent    annual  Nonsal oper:Transmission charges                   0.2   0.6   1.0   1.0               3
Equipment  package  Comiunicstions controller                             1                                1
Maintenance  annual  Cosaunications controller 06M                  0      0     1      1     1
Equipment  package  OMR Multipage envelopor                               1                                1
Maintenance  annual  Envoloper 06M                                  0      0     1      1     1
Recurrent    annual  Nonsal oper:Roplaccmt cards/mailing                       500   500   500          1,500
Recurrent    annual  Nonsal oper:Postage(OOOs):choques/vouchers               5000  5000  5000          15000
Recurrent    annual  Nonsal opor:Postage(OOOs):mail to emplyrc                 500   500   500           1500
Recurrent    annual  Nonsal oper:Productn chequos/vouchers                   60000 60000 60000         180000
Recurrent    annual  Nonsal oper:Power/eirconditioning                           1      1     1             3
Recurrent    annual  Nonsal oper:Offcito tape storage                            1      1     1             3
Recurrent    annual  Nonsal oper:Computer paper/consum                           1      1     1             3
Recurrent    annual  Nonsal oper:Cartridges(OOOm)                                       3     3             6



- 119 -                                                         ANNEXZ
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Type        Unit                                        --------Distribution of Quantities-------  Total
of  of - - -----Qty of
Component         Input   eiput                                            Tl   Yr2   Yr3   Yr4   TrS   Yr6   Yr7   Input
Fiscal   1993  ISO   1905  1996  1997  1998  1999
2. OPERUAIOAL INFRASTRUCTURE
2.2 Technological Infratructure
2.22 Card Production Ecuipment end Facilities
Consultant  m/month  STconsML:card function design                    1                                         1
Fellowship  m/month  ST Fll(3):observe card functions                3                                         3
Fellowship  m/month  ST Foll(3):observc card operations                      3                                  3
Consultant  m/month  STconsML:ccrd eqp procat                                3                                  3
Buildings  X Sproad Construction:card productn room                       100X                               100X
Maintenance S Spread Build 06M                                        0X    0X  1001  1001  1001
Equipment  package  Card productn equip                                     4                                  4
Maintenance  annual  Equip O&M                                        0      0      4      4      4
Equipment  packago  Onsert card addressing equip                            1                                  1
Maintenance  annual  Equip 06M                                        0      0      1      1      1
Equipment  package  Enveloping equipment                                    1                                  1
Maintenanc,  annual  Equip O&M                                        0      0      1      1      1
Materials      unit   Plastic cards('000)                                10500                              10500
Materials      unit   Envelopes(000e)                                   10500                              10500
Materials      unit   Postage('000s)                                     10500                              10500
Salary    m/month  Increm  Salary:Overtime/card prod                           240                         240
2.23 Telephones
Consultant  m/month  STconaML:Prop spocs/bid oval               3                                               3
Consultant  m/month  Install PABX equip/train staff             6                                               6
Equipment  package  PABX equipment                            1                                                1
Maintenance  annual  Equip 06M                                         1     1      1      1     1
Software   package  PABX software                              1                                               1
License    annual  Software license/upgrade                         1      1      1     1      1
Recurrent    annual  Nonsal Oper Costs                       0.5       1     1      1      1      1             6
2.24 Office Earuipment Packages
Equipment  package  Office Equipment:oervice offices                50    50   100                          200
Maintenance  annual  Equip O&M                                        0    50   100   200   200
Furniture  package  Furniture: Service Offices furniture            50    50   100                           200
Computer   package  Computer Hardware:Hosp Rcimb                     1                                         1
Maintenance  annual  Compu 06M                                        0      1      1      1     1
Computer   package  Computer aardware:Spclst Roimb                   1                                         1
Maintenance  annual  Compu O0M                                        0      1      1      1     1






- 121 -                              ANNEX 8
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
Proiect Management Unit and Implementation Arrangements
1.       Overview.  The Project, which will be implemented over a five year
period (completed by December 31, 1997) will be implemented by an Implementing
Agency,j,/ County Directorates and local Service Offices. Coordination of
the Project-related activities of these agencies will be the responsibility of
the Project Management Unit (PMU) attached directly to the office of the
General Manager of the SIA or future Implementing Agency (Chart 1 of this
Annex.) The PMU will facilitate resource flows to the implementing units, and
to the extent appropriate, consolidate the procurement of goods and services
in consideration of efficiency and economy of scale (Chart 2 of this Annex).
The PMU will also serve as the clearing house for project issues requiring the
decision of top management and external agencies including the Bank.
2.       The implementation of each project subcomponent will be the
responsibility of the appropriate department concerned. Each line agency or
unit should coordinate with other involved agencies/units while maintaining
close liaison with the PMU to ensure the timely flow of adequate resources for
implementing its programs. In general, each implementing unit will be
responsible for the following activities:
(a)  finalizing terms of reference (TOR) for the technical assistance
(TA), management of fellowships, and training requirements for their
employees including higher level managers of the Implementing Agency,
and in close coordination with PMU, participate in the technical
evaluation of TA proposals received, negotiations and award of
contracts;
(b)  preparing detailed procedures and implementation schedules for its
program(s) and identifying and tapping local expertise needed to
implement these programs;
(c)  in collaboration with the Information Technology Division (ITD) and
equipment specialists, assisting in the preparation of equipment
lists, procurement packages, detailed specifications and bid
documents, and evaluating bids received;
(d) defining physical targets and preparing estimates of financial
resources needed to support future actions; and
/ The current SIA or the legal entity (SEO) that will be established by the two Funds to perform joint
functions such as common service delivery, financial management and information technology



- 122 -                              ANNEX 8
(e) collecting, collating and disseminating information and preparing
reports about the progress of implementation of its activities.
3.       The specific implementation responsibilities for each component or
subcomponent are as follows:
COMPONENT 1 - MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT.
(a)  Project Management and Coordination.  Overall coordination of project
implementation will be the responsibility of the PMU. PMU's
functions are described in further detail in para. 4 below.
(b)  Systems Planning and Integration.
(i)   Strategic Systems Plan. Preparation of the strategic systems
plan will be the responsibility of the Project Development
Office (PDO). Specialists will be contracted to assist PDO
develop the strategic systems integration plan and its
implementation.
(ii)  Systems Organization.  Implementation of this subcomponent will
be the responsibility of the PDO.
Computer Programmer Training will be the responsibility of PDO
and implemented by ITD.
(c) Planning Development Unit. Implementation of this subcomponent will
be the responsibility of the newly created Planning Development Unit
(PDU) attached to the PDO.
(d)  Preinvestment Study.  The PDO will be responsible for the preparation
of a preinvestment study for subsequent operation(s) presented for
external/Bank financing.
COMPONENT 2 - OPERATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE.
(a)  Applications Software Development.  The implementation of this
subcomponent will be the responsibility of ITD. ITD will be assisted
by specialists in developing and testing applications systems and
administrative procedures for:
(i)   Personal Identification and Eligibility Recording.
(ii)  Contribution Collection.
(iii) Benefit Payments (cyclic and non-cyclic)
(iv)  Health Care Provider Reimbursement.
(v)   Financial Management/Accounting.  The development of the
application system and administrative procedures for this
subcomponent will be the responsibility of ITD and the
Accounting Division of Implementing Agency.



- 123 -                              ANNEX 8
(b)  Technological Infrastructure.  Tenders for the procurement of
hardware specified under the following subcomponents will be managed
by the PMU in collaboration with technical staff of the units named
below. In each case, the preparation of procurement packages will be
implemented by ITD assisted by equipment specialists in preparing
detailed equipment specifications and packaging and evaluating the
bids received.
(i)   Data Processing Equipment and Facilities.  Implementation of
this subcomponent will be the responsibility of PDO and ITD.
(ii)  Card Production Equipment and Facilities.  Implementation of
this subcomponent will be the responsibility of the newly
organized Service Delivery Division (SDD) under the PDO.
(iii) Telephones. Implementation of this subcomponent will be the
responsibility of the SDD.
(iv)  Office Equipment Packages.  Implementation of this subcomponent
will be the responsibility of the PDO, SDD and ITD.
4.       Proiect Management and Coordination.  The PMU will exercise overall
responsibility for coordinating the implementation of the Project. The PMU is
headed by a full-time Project Manager and two full-time senior coordinators
(one for the Management Development Component and the other for the
Operational Infrastructure Component. The PMU's day-to-day operations will be
supported by full-time technical staff (at least three positions) and support
personnel (at least two positions) with skills in accounting, procurement,
contract administration, information processing, and records management (see
Chart 1 of this Annex).  PHU will be assisted by: (a) the Legal and
Procurement Divisions for procurement and contract administration; (b) the
International Relations Division for TA/fellowships placements; and (c) the
Accounting Division for accounts and audit reports.
5.       The PMU will not design or implement programs and activities
supported by the Project, as this would be the responsibility of the existing
line departments and the newly created Information Technology Division,
Service Delivery Division and Planning Development Unit. Given the Project's
complexity and to support institutional strengthening in the Implementing
Agency, the Project will provide technical assistance in modern project
management techniques, planning, procurement and contract administration. The
PMU will:
(a)  be responsible for coordinating implementation of various activities
and ensuring that all resources utilized under the Project
(financial, physical, staff, etc.) are in accordance with the
priorities and objectives defined under the Project and for the
sector;
(b) act as the principal liaison with the Bank (and other donors) for
project administration and supervision purposes;



- 124 -                              ANNEX 8
(c)  ensure that counterpart funds are made available to the Project when
required through appropriate budgeting and planning. The PMU will
consolidate the estimates of budgetary needs (investment and
recurrent) of the Project for the immediately following financial
year, sufficiently ahead of time in order to obtain the
comments/concurrence of the interested agencies, including the Bank,
prior to submission for Government (and as needed, Parliamentary)
approval;
(d)  in collaboration with the Accounting Division, monitor project
expenditures and costs (local and f-oreign, Bank and Government
counterpart funds), expedite the processing of loan/grant fund
drawdowns in collaboration with the National Bank of Hungary,
consolidate statements of expenditure (SOE), manage the special
accounts established for the Project, and keep financial records of
the Project;
(e)  in collaboration with ITD, manage and keep records of the procurement
of works, major equipment and software packages (excluding off the
shelf purchases which will be done by the implementing units) and the
administration of suppliers contracts;
(f)  manage the contracting of technical assistance services, and in
collaboration with the International Relations Division, monitor the
placement and performance of staff receiving training locally and
abroad, and of the consultants hired under the Project;
(g)  prepare and distribute consolidated periodic reports to the relevant
government and other participating institutions/agencies, including
the Bank, reflecting: (i) the status of implementation progress,
problems encountered and corrective actions needed; and (ii) current
costs of each project component and estimated costs of completion;
(h)  ensure the timely preparation and submission to relevant government
institutions and the Bank of annual audit reports of project
expenditure (including SOEs) and accounts; and
(i)  be responsible for preparing the Project Completion Report at the end
of project implementation.



FIGURE 8.1: PMU ORGANIZATION
General Manager  --------P-------   roject Manager
SI A                             WB PMU
[ Senior Coordinator     [  Accounting                Senior Coordinator            Departments
_ _ _ _ _  I.____                                          Supporting
Implementation
Mgmt. Development           Procurement                Operational
Component                                              Infrastructure               Legal Division
Component
Administration                                          Procurement Divisioni
Information                                          International
Processing                                           Relations Division
Records
Management                                           Accounting Division|
co



FIGURE 8.2: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT CYCLE
Activities                       Suppliers        PDO/PDU/SDD in            PMU           SIA Controller   World Bank
collab. with ITD                        Finance Dept.
1.  Send standard bid documents
2.  Prepare itidividual bids
3.  Clear with World Bank                                                                                                     [Ii
4.  Invite suppliers
5. Suppliers received bid
documents and present offers
6.  Analyze bids received
7.  World Bank clears selection                                                                                               F
8.  Issue awards
9.  Sign contracts
10. Send for review/internal
processes.
11. Incorporate in budget
12. Include in records
13. Begin execution
14. Request payment for order
15. Review payment request
16. Pay order or forward to                                                                                                                  coI
World Bankreor
17. Progress report                                                         



FIGURE 9.1: CURRENT STRUCTURE OF NSIA ORGANIZATION
| PMU   l                         l      ~~~~~~~~HEAD OF SIAl
Legal Deputy Head           Economic DeRuty Head           Health Deputy Head                    Secretariate  (39)
of SIA (l)             |      of SIA (1)                    of SIA (1)
]      l                             l                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Human Resources and
Training Department (10
Development                 Economics                     Pharmaceutical, Med.
_   Office           _   Department                     Appliance & Med.
(39)                        (12)                      Factors Dept. (22)               Press and Information
Department (5)
Legal and Tech.             Financial                     Health Financing
_    Management Dept.                Dept.                            Dept.
(33)                     (63 + 57)                         (12)                       International Relations
Department (10)
Supervisory                 Asset Management              Health Insurance
_    Department                     Main Division               Supervision Dept.                Internal (Supervisor)
(30)                        (6)                             (14)                       Auditor (2)
Legal Advisors              Statistical                   Health Insurance
-    Bureau (3)                    Section (9)                  Legal and Admin.                 Chief Medical Officer
Independent Section             of Social Insurance (4)
(8)
Journalist Section (3)
Total Number of employees: 390 (92.09.08)                                                               MualAdScey()|                 X






-129 -                             ANNEX 10
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
SuRervis:ion Plan
Timing        Staff Weeks           Staffing
CY1993          30 weeks             Bank resources (30 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (12 weeks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist
(L0 weeks)
- Information systems (3 weeks)
- Other - not yet specified (5 weeks)
[Supplementary technical inputs will be
requested through bilateral/multilateral
cooperation in the following areas:
health insurance administration, health
care financing, health policy development,
systems development and office
automation.]
CY1994          20 weeks             Bank resources (20 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (12 weeks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist
(8 weeks)
[Supplementary technical inputs will be
requested through bilateral/multilateral
cooperation in the following areas:
health insurance administration, health
care financing, health policy development,
systems development and office
automation.]
CY1995          20 weeks             Bank resources (20 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (12 weeks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist
(8 weeks)
[Supplementary technical inputs will be
requested through bilateral/multilateral
cooperation in the following areas:
health insurance administration, health
care financing, health policy development,
systems development and office
automation.]



-130 -                             ANNEX 10
CY1996           18 weeks             Bank resources (18 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (10 weeks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist
(8 weeks)
[Supplementary technical inputs will be
requested through bilateral/multilateral
cooperation in the following areas:
health insurance administration, health
care financing, health policy development,
systems development and office
automation.]
CY1997           15 weeks             Bank resources (15 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (8 weeks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist
(7 weeks)
[Supplementary technical inputs will be
requested through bilateral/multilateral
cooperation in the following areas:
health insurance administration, health
care financing, health policy development,
systems development and office
automation.]
CY1998            8 weeks             Bank resources (8 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (4 weeks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist
(4 weeks)
[Supplementary technical inputs will be
requested through bilateral/multilateral
cooperation in the following areas:
health insurance administration, health
care financing, health policy development,
systems development and office
automation.]



- 131  -                                               ANNEX  11
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
I            SUHHARY OF TECENICAL ASSISTAXCR BY                      FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY I TOTALI P  I
I           OBJECTIVE hID AREA OF SPECIALIZATICON                  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998 IMan/Mol a  I
I POLICY   iDevelop emt of Policy studies On:                    |  Counletion rates:                    |       |k  |
|SUPPR   I                                                                                                         a
|Eligibility and contributions                          10X   30X 30X   30X                 I
|Cash benefits                                        i loX   30X  30X  30X                 |       | 
I           |Health provider reimbursement                       |25    252   25%   252                  I       I
|            |Devel analytical tools for hosp reimbur            |         102   30X 30X  302            |       IN
I            |Pharmacoutical expenditure controls                |33    332   332                        |       |o|
I            lAdmin policy to coordinate allied benefits                   33%   33X  332                |       |
I FRJOMT    Preimrvestaent Study for future projects             I                502   502              I  |1 |
I PREPARATI I                                                                            I                      I
I   AND    |Specialist Services for:                             I                                                 I
I IMPLEIE- lProject mmnagment services           1               8i               84    42    14       7 1   231 12 |
1 TATIOH   |Preparation of standard procuroent packagoes              8                                  1    8 13   1
I            I hard/software selection/specs/bid documents                                               I  I         I
I           IRestructure financial  gt/accounting practicesl  6             6    12      0      0      9 1   33 14   I
|           IDevelopment of Application Software and             I                                       I       I    I
|            I Administrative procedures for:                    I                                       I       I    I
I Personal Identification/Eligibility Recordingl    0   108    54            6     0      0    168 |]   I
Contribution Collection                          I    0   108   117    21       0      0    246 |1 1
Benefit Payment (cyclic and non-cyclic)          I    0      0     0   162   264    48    474 |]
Health Care Provider Reimbursement               I                                       1       15   I
i            I    Primary Care Reimbursement                     I    0    27    18    12       0      0   |57 |]   I
Pharmaceutical Benefits                        I    0     0    72    39    12        0  |123 |]   I
Provider Registration                          I    0     0    12       0     0      0     121]    I
Hospital Reimbursement                         I    0     0      0     0    93    30  |123 |]   I
I            IData Processing Equipment and Facilities             |        6    10       0     0      0   |16 16   I
|Arch/engineering services for building retrofitl            1002  (lump sum contract)    I         I    I
I            ICard function design, equip_mnt procurnt/install    0         1      3     0      0      0 1    4 17   I
|            ITelophboes:procurut/inataiatinx of PAE sytml    9             0      0     0      0      0|   9 18   i
I            I    and training of staff                                                                  I       I    I
I            IPlamning/Implemmntation of Financial               1         332   33%   332                       19   I
I   Management/Accrual Accounting System            I                                               I    I
I DSTITU-  ISoecialist Services for:
I TIO AL   I
IDEVELOPI4ENTIStrategic planning/systm  integratioa    |             54   108   108   108   108    54 |  540 110  I
I      |     Define organizational structure of ITD           |      12    24    12            |             48 IllI 
IDefine organizational structure of OD              I    6    12      6           |             24 112  I
Organize computer progra_er training progres s                48    24    24    24    24 |  144 113 |
I            IFellowships/study tours for:                                                               I       I
I                                                                                           I       I    I
I            IStrengthening of the Planning DavelopiDnt Unit II                                                  I    I
I           I    Cash Benefits                                   I         12    12    12                1   36 |]   I
I            I    Remuneration of specialist services             |         6      6                     1   12 |]   I
I            I    Remuneration of hospital services              |          4      4     4        |          12 ll   I
I            I    Administration of allied benefits policy   I              6      6      6              1   18 114 |
I            i    Financial Management.                                    1 0    18    18      6        1   52 |1    I
Tour contribution/eligibility institutions I    3         6      6                     1   15 |)   I
I            I    Tour social insurance institutions             I    5     5      5      5     5      5   |30 |]   I
I Strangthening of Project Mnagament Unit           I   10                                  I   10 12   I
1           |Strengthening of Infornation Technology Div    |    8          6      3                     I   17 IllI
|Strengthening of Operations Division           |        8    60    48    30    30    30 |  206 112I
----------- I- ----------------------------------------------I- -----------------------------------      I -----I- ---



- 132  -                                              ANNEX  11
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
a=XSJLTAmT SEMVICES                       I  FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY | TOTAL |
COMPOHENT/AREA OF SPECIALIZATION            1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998 |Man/Mos|
1. MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT -D PLABMIUG                                                 I        I
I    1.1  Project Manaxement                                                          I        I
I   LTconsHL(7):Proj management services    I            84    84    42    14       7 I  231 I
I    1.2  Systems Planninft and Oraanization  I                                       I        I
I    1.21 Systi_  Integration                                                         I        I
|   LTconsHL(3):System planning/integration |   18    36    36    36    36    18 i    180 i
LTconsML(6):Ds.erl strategic system plan I  36    72    72    72    72    36 I   360 I
I    1.22 Systm_  Organization                                                        I        I
Information Technology Division    I                                        I       I
|   LTconsHL(l):Define organiztnl structure |    6    12         6 a                       24 |
|   LTconsML(1):Define organiztnl structure |    6    12         6                    |    24
Operations Division                                                         I        I
|   LTconsML(1):Dafina organiztnl structure |   6    12          6                    |   24 |
|         Comouter ProArammcr Training
LTconsML(4):organize training programs  |           48    24    24    24    24 |   1.4 4
I         Proparation of Procurement Packaftesi                                       I
|   STconsHL:hard/software selection/specif I    8 a                                        8 |
Subtotal I  80   276   234   174   146    85         995 I
------------------------- -------------------I- ------------------------------- ---- -------



- 133  -                                           ANNEX ll
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
|   CSULTAT SERVICES                             FY   FY    FY    FY    FY    FY   TOTAL I
C tXMPOUFZT/AREA OF SPBCIALIZATICO           | 1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998 |Man/Mo.|
-------------------------- ------------------  - --------------------------------- --  - ------_
2. OPERATIOKAL INFRASTRUCtIRI                I                                     I       I
1   2.1 Application Software                                                      I        I
|   2.11 Personal Identification end Iligibility Rlcording                                 I
|   STconsHL(4):Design eligibility database |          24                         |   24 |
|   STconsML(l):Program eligibility databasel                 6                   |    6 |
|   STconsLL(l):Test eligibility database   |                 3                   |    3 |
|   LTconsHL(7): Eligib recording design    |          84                         |    4 
|   LTconsHL(2): Eligib record programing  |                 24                   |   24|
|   LTconsHL(1):Test eligibility record      |               12     6             |   18 i
|   LTconsLL(1)Design admin procedures       |                9                   |    9 |
|   2.12 Contribution Collection             I                                    I        I
|   LTconsHL(9):Analysis/design *pplicationsl         108   54                    |  162 |
|   LTconsML(4):Programming                  1               48                   |   48 |
I   LTconsLL(1):Testing                      |               12   12              |   24 |
|   LTconsLL(1)Design admin procedures       |                3     9             |   12 |
|   2.13 Benefit Payment                                                           I       I
I   Cyclic Payments                                                                I       I
|   LTconsHL(9):Analysis/design applicationsl                     108    54        |  162 |
|   LTconsML(4) Programming                                              48       |   46 |
|   LTconsLL(l):Testing                      |                           12     6 |   18 i
|   LTconsLL(l)Design admin procedures       |                           12       |   12 |
|   Non-Cyclic Payments                                                            I       I
|   LTconsHL(9):Analysis/design applicationsl                      54   108       |  162 |
|   LTconsML(4): Programming                 |                           24    24 |   48 |
|   LTconsLL(1) :Testing                                                  6 8   6 |   12 |
|   LTconsLL(1)Design admin procedures       1                                 12 |   12 |
2. 14 Health Care Provider R-iiburs-nmt |                                        I        I
|   Primary Care Reimbursement               I                                    I       I
|   STconsHL(3):Analysis/design applicationsl          27                         |   27 |
|   STconsML(2):Programming                  |               12                   |   12 |
|   STconsHL(l) Testin|                                       6     6             I   121
|   STconsLL(l)Design admin procedures       |                      6             |    6 |
|   Pharmaceutical Benefits                                                               I
|   STconsHL(l):Software dev/data collection|                 6                   |    6 I
|   STconsHL(9):Analysis/design applicationsl                54   27              |   81 |
|   STconsML(2):Programming                                  12     6             |   18 i
|   STconsHL(l) :Testing                                            6     3       |    9I
|   STconsLL(1)Design admin procedures       |                            9       |    9 |
|   Provider Registration                                                         I        I
|   LTconsHL(3):Analysis/desisn applications|                 9                   |    9 |
|   LTconsML() :Programming                                   3                    |    3|
|   Hospital Reimbursement
|   STconsHL(l):Software dev/data collection|                             6       I    6 I
|   STconsHL(9):Analysis/design applicationsl                            81       I   81 I
|   STconsML(2) Programming                                               6    12|   18i
|   STconsHL(l) Testing                                                         9 |     9
I   STconsLL(1)Design admin procedures       |                                  9I      9I
- - - -- - -- - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- -- - -- - -- -- - --- -  - - - - -- - -- - - --- - - -- - -- -- --- -- - - - -- - - -  - -- -- --_



- 134  -                                             ANNEX  11
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
IIII
|   CCULTAT   RVIC8                           |   n    FY    FY    FT    FY    FY | TOTAL |
a MEOr    / AD.K    or SPtIALIZAflW           I 1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998 Man/MosI
12. OPERATIONAL   lSiCU                    
1   2.1 Aoolication Software                                                         I       I
I   2.15 Financial Managin                                                           I n
|   STconsHL:Restruct accounting practices  | 6                                    9 S    15|
|   LTconsHL:Reatruct accounting practices  |             6    12                    I    18
Subtotal-     6   249   285   240   369    87    1236|
I   2.2  T.chnological Infrastructure         I                                      I       I
2.21 Date Processing Equpisent   d Facilitia                                    I
|   STconsHL:Set up computor environmnt    15                                              5 5
Arch/angg services for bldg retrofit    I          100S                         I       I
|   STconcML:hardware procurcmt/installation|             1     2                    |     3|
|   STconsML:software procurmt/installation |                   4                    |    4 |
|   STconsHL(1):WNtwork configuration designl                   4                    |     4 |
2.22 Card Production 1quip at and Faclltile                                             I
STconsML:card function design            |           1                          |     1 I
|   STconsML:card equipment procurmt/installl                   3                    |    3 I
I   2.23 TIli  b ma 
STconsML:Prepare specs/bid evaluation   |    3                                  I     3 I
Install PABX equipment/train staff            a 6                               1     6|
Subtotal:|   9      7    13      0     0     0       29|
|          IOTAL    S WLTANT SILVICIS (t/m)       95   532   532   414   515   172    2260|
I   PREPMRATIOK or SOr DIU:                   I                                      I       I
1.31 DevelolQmnt of Policy                                                      I
| Study:Eligibility/contribution policy   i 10   302   302  30%
Study:Cash benefits                      |  102   30X 302  30X
|   Study:Health provider reimbursce_nt       |252   252   252   25X
I   Devel analytical tools for hosp reimbur              102   30%  30%  30X
|   Study:Pharmaccutical expenditure controll           33%   33%   33X
|   Study:Admin policy to coord allied benefl           33Z   332   33X              I 
1.24 Preparation of Preinvestmnnt Study I                                       I 
I   Study:Prepare future project                               50%   50X             I
Z2.15 Financial Manastment
I   Plannins/Implementation of Financial                33|  33X    33X
ManaSement/Accrual Accounting System   |
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------    -------



- 135 -                                                        ANNEX 11
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
|    FfLLOkHIPS/TRAIAIUG                               I   FY      FY      FY     FT     FY      FY    TOTAL  |
|    CO?OT/AREA OF SPECIALIZATICO                         1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998 IMan/Mosl
1.  HAIAG4E3T DEVELOPHT AD PLAAM             IW                                                     I         I
I        I
I    1.1  Prolect Hmna                                                                               I         Int  I  I
|    ST Fellow:Project management                             4                                             4 
|    ST Fellow(3):english language training   |    6                                                 |      6 |
Subtotal:|   10         0       0      0       0      0        10 |
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -_
I    1.2  System  Plnminx and Organization   |                                                       I         I
|    1.22 Systim  OrganLiation
Information Technology Division (ITD)    |                                                     I         I
|    ST Fell(16):Tour ITDr abroad                           a8                                              8 |
|    Operations Division (OD)
|    ST Fel1(12):Tour ODs abroad                       |           12                                I    12
|    Computer Prozr ammer Trainingt
|    ST Fel(4):Visit installations abroad    |    8                                                 |      8 |
|    ST Fell: tuition/exter programmer trgg                        35      35     20      20     20 |   130 |
|    ST Fell:local analysis courses                    I           10      10     10      10     10 |    50 I
- -- - -- - - - - -- -- - - - -- - - - - -- -- - - - -- - - -- -- -- - - --  - - -- --- - - - - -- - - - - -- -- -- - -- - - -- - - - - - -  - -- - - - -_
Subtotal:1    16       57      45     30     30      30 |   208 |
- - - - -- - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - -- -- - - - - -- -- -  - -- - - - --- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - -- - - -- - -- - - -  - - - - - - -_
I    1.3  Planning Develorment Unit (PDU)              I                                             I         I
1.31 Creation of PDW                                                                           I
|    LT Fell(3) Cash Benefits                          |           12      12     12                 |    36 |
|    ST Fell:Tour contrib/eligib institutional               3       6      6                        |     15 |
|    ST Fell:Tour social insurance inctitna   |    5                 5      5      5       5      5 |    30 I
|    ST Fell:Remuneration of specialist serv |                       6      6                        |     12 |
|    ST Fell:Remuneration of hospital s*rv    |                      A      4      4                 |     12 |
|    ST Fcll:Admin allied benefits policy              |            6       6      6                 |     18 |
--------------------------------------------I- -----------------------------------                  -------
Subtotal:|    8        39      39     27       5      5 |   123 |
12.  OPERATIORAL INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                      I         I
I    2.1  AwnLication Software                                                                       I
I    2.11 Financial Hanma          t                                                                           I
|    LT Fe11(2):Financial Management                   |            6      18     18       6         |    48 |
|    ST Fell:Observe finan management practici                      4                                |      4
Subtotal:1    0        10      16     18       6      0 I    52 I
|    2.2  Technological Infrastructure                 I                                             I         I
2.21 Data Processing Ecuipmont and Facilitise s                                                          I
|    ST Fc11(3):tour computer installations   |                      6                               |      6|
|    ST Fell(3):tour communic networks                 |                    3                        |      3 |
|    2.22 Card Production Eauiument and Facilities
ST Fe11(3):observe card functions                 |            3                               |       3 |
|    ST F11(3):observe card operations                |                    3                        |      3 |
--------------------------------------------I- -----------------------------------                  -------
Subtotal:1    0         9       6      0       0      0 |      15 i
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------                   -------
TOTAL  ELLoWsIPS  (m/m)              |   34    115    108       75      41     35       408|
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------                    -------






- 137  -                                          ANNEX  12
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSION ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
Table 12.1: SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTSa/
(US$ million)
Percentage
Disbursements                                   Difference
Sector Disbursement  Project
Calendar         Fiscal                             Cumulat         Profile             Over
Project                                                  Cumula- as 2 of                              Regional
Year      Year Semester  Year Semester  Periodic   tive    Total   Regional   Bankwide   Profile
Year 1    1993       lot    1993    2nd          8.0 b/       8.0        -           -          -           -
2nd    1994      1st        7.0         15.0       112          3S         3X          8% -
Year 2    1994       lot              2nd        7.0         22.0      17X           6S         6X        11% +
2nd    1995      Ist       10.3         32.3      24S          102        102        14% +
Year 3    1995       lot              2nd       17.0         49.3      372          142        14X        23% +
2nd    1996      1st       18.5         67.8      512          222        182        292 +
Year 4    1996    lst                 2nd       20.0         87.8      672          302        262        37% +
2nd    1997      lst       18.1        105.9      802          382        342        42% +
Year 5    1997       lot              2nd       10.0        115.9      882          462        462        42% +
2nd    1998      1st       10.7        126.6      962          582        542        38% +
Year 6    1998 q/ lst                 2nd        5.4        132.0    1002           66%        62X        34% +
2nd    1999    lt                                             742        74X
Year 7    1999       lst              2nd                                           82S        82X
2nd    2000    lt                                             862        902
Year 8    2000       lst              2nd                                           94X        94X
2nd    2001    lt                                             982       1002
Year 9    2001       1st              2nd                                          1002
Total      132.0
amE:
Source: IBRD Central Operations Department
There are no comparative disbursement profiles for health in Hungary to date.
j/ Project assumes a six-month disbursement lag.
k/ Initial deposit (US$8.0 million) into Special Account.
S/ Closing Date: June 30. 1998.






- 139 -
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSIONS ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
accrual rate - the percentage point increase of the pension replacement rate
with each additional year of insured employment.
block grant - budgetary transfer to an authority (e.g., from central to local
government) which is earmarked for certain purposes.
cash benefits - income support for individuals in the form of cash, in
contrast with benefits in kind such as free health care.
contribution rate - in this study, refers to the social insurance tax paid by
employers (or employees) as a percentage of the contribution base, which is
the wage bill (earnings). The implicit contribution rate is the tax rate that
would be necessary to cover estimated social insurance expenditures.
contributory benefits - benefits received by virtue of the recipient having
made earnings-related payments or contributions into a social insurance fund
(see social insurance).
copayment - (or user fee) partial payment by the user or consumer of a good or
service which is also financed in part by other (usually public) funds.
degressivitv - in Hungary, the declining-scale formula used to determine the
share of the individual's prior earnings base to be taken into account in
calculation of the pension.
earnings-related benefits - benefit paid as a percentage of previous earnings;
thus, individuals with higher previous earnings receive higher benefits.
effective retirement age - the average age of retirement according to actual
practice; reflects the individual's response to regulations regarding the
legal minimum retirement age and incentives to remain in the labor force.
flat-rate - a payment (or tax) which is specified in absolute amount, rather
than as a percentage of some other value such as previous earnings.
flat-rate benefits - benefits not related to previous income.
funded pensions - pensions paid out of an accumulated fund, in contrast with
PAYG schemes.
income-tested benefits - see means-tested benefits.



- 140 -
in kind - benefit or income received in the form of goods or services (e.g.
health care, food supplies or food vouchers, etc.).
main emplovment or earnings - in Hungary, defined as the primary job and
source of income, identified as such in the individual's "work book"
(employment record maintained for social insurance purposes).
means-testing - determination of individual's eligibility for benefits which
are provided only when income, and sometimes also assets, fall below a certain
ceiling (also called income-testing).
means-tested benefits - benefits paid only to individuals whose income and/or
wealth from all other sources are below a given amount. The term thus
embraces both income testing and wealth testing.
minimum retirement age - the minimum legal age of eligibility to receive a
public pension.
net personal income - the sum of all gross income, both earned (received
either in cash or in kind from employment or from investments) and unearned
(social income in cash), net of taxes and other withdrawals and net of
transfers among households.
normative - based on objective, formally-specified criteria or rules, e.g.
normative formulas for central government subsidies.
pay-as-you-go (PAYG) - pensions paid out of current revenues, as opposed to
funded schemes.
primarv income of active earners - in Hungary, defined as main earnings and
sick pay.
primary income of inactive earners - in Hungary, defined as pensions, child
care fee and allowance, and unemployment compensation.
progressive - structure of policies whereby the percentage rate for transfers
received (or taxes paid) increases as income increases.
regressive - structure of policies whereby the percentage rate of transfers
(or taxes) is inversely related to income levels, e.g., the percentage of
subsidy received (or tax paid) is lower as income rises.
replacement rate - the ratio of benefit to income when in work. Distinctions
may be made between the gross (gross benefit/gross work income) or net
replacement rate (net benefit/net work income); or between statutory (nominal
replacement rate ( the ratio as declared in the benefit regulations) and the
effective replacement rate, which is the actual ratio in practice considering
the effects of taxation, inflation, etc.
retirement income testing - for persons otherwise eligible for a public
pension, their right to receive a given amount of pension at a given time is



- 141 -
subject to a determination of how much empioyment income they continue to
receive.
secondary (or supplementary) labor income - in Hungary, defined as earnings
which are from other than "main employment".
secondary social incomes - in Hungary, defined as family allowance, student
scholarships, and other cash benefits such as social assistance.
service period - periods counted towards eligibility for social insurance
benefits. Normally, periods of service should be the same as periods of
employment during which social insurance contributions are paid; however, some
periods of noncontribution (e.g. time spent in the military) may be counted as
service periods.
sickness benefit (or sick pay) - income replacement benefit to individuals
during periods of temporary sickness or injury.
social assistance - cash benefits usually financed out of general taxation and
paid to needy individuals on the basis of a means test (sometimes called
welfare or Rublic assistance).
social expenditure - in the present study, defined as the sum of social income
plus consumer and housing subsidies. (In the OECD date base, social
expenditure is defined more narrowly as the sum of public old-age, survivors',
and disability pensions, unemployment compensation, sick pay, family and
maternity/child care benefits, social assistance and social/welfare services,
health services and pharmaceuticals, and education services. Except for the
omission of cultural/sports services and unemployment services, this
classification is roughly equivalent to "social income" in Hungarian terms.)
social income - in Hungary, defined as the sum of benefits paid to individuals
in cash (old age, survivors', and disability pensions, unemployment
compensation, sick pay, family allowances, maternity/child care benefits,
social assistance, and student scholarships) as well as the value of services
consumed by individuals in kind (health services and pharmaceutical subsidies,
education services, social services, subsidized cultural and sports
activities, and services for the unemployed).
social insurance - cash benefits awarded on the basis of past contributions;
by definition, social insurance benefits should be actuarially-based (taking
account of risk factors) and contributions, by employers and/or employees,
should be mandatory.
standard retirement age - the age at which full pension benefits can be
received.
subsistence minimum income - income level for individual/family estimated to
be required to maintain a level of consumption sufficient for a healthy
existence. This estimated income level represents the poverty line. A social
minimum income level is also calculated to represent a somewhat higher
standard of consumption.



- 142 -
targeting - the awarding of social benefits to only certain groups in the
population, or only on certain prespecified criteria. Means-testing is one
method of targeting.
tax allowance - benefit provided through a specified reduction in the amount
of tax payable. A refundable tax credit may be converted to a cash payment to
individuals whose initial tax liability is less than the amount of the tax
credit.
tax expenditure - a benefit defined in terms of a tax concession, e.g. a tax
allowance or tax credit. The cost of such benefit to government is the
revenue foregone.
transfer - refers to any public expenditure outlay for the benefit of
individuals.
universal benefit - a benefit delivered without ex ante restrictions on
eligibility. There are few purely universal benefits. E.g., a family
allowance is both targeted (only to families), but also universal in that all
families receive it on the basis of residence (or citizenship) without
preconditions regarding income, social insurance status, etc. A universal
benefit may still be income-tested ex post by being subject to a progressive
personal income tax.
welfare - see social assistance.



- 143 -
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSIONS ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF MATERIALS IN THE PROJECT FILE
American International Healthcare; Reform Within the Health Sector of Hungary,
Preliminary Report of Phase One, Health Sector Financing Study; March 1, 1989
IMF; Social Security Reform in Hungary; October 12, 1990; G. Kopits, R.
Holzmann, G. Schieber, E. Sidgwick
IBRD; Hungary: The Transition to a Market Economy, Critical Human Resources
Issues; Report No. 8665-HU; April 15, 1991
IBRD; Hungary: Reform and Decentralization of the Public Sector in Two
Volumes; Report No. 10061-HU; May 29, 1992
IBRD; Hungary Health Services: Issues and Options for Reform; IBRD, September
10, 1990
Incidence Study '90; The Hungarian Social-Policy Systems and Distribution of
Incomes of Households; Mihaly Kupa, Gaspar Fajth; 1990
Health Insurance Commission; Hungarian Pensions Administration and Health
Insurance Project; A. Ritter, G. Zak, M. Pinter; June 12, 1990
Jensen, P.M.; Hungary Health Care Project: Paper on the question of capitation
payments of the general practitioners and pediatricians; 1992
Voirin. Michel; Comments on problems raised by Act No LXXXIV of 1991 on the
management of Social Insurance at local self-government level; April 1992
IBRD; World Bank Pension Cost Model: Description and Users' Manual; Barr,
Concepcion; April 3, 1992
Arthur Andersen & CO. S.C.; Management Report & Statutory Financial Statements
(Operational) Together with Accountants' Review Report; June 1992
EDS; NSIA Office Infrastructure Project: A Report to the World Bank in
Compliance with TOR #2.4 Hungarian Social Insurance Project; July 1992






MAP SECTION






H  U  N  G  A  R Y                                                                 SLOVAK REPUBILIC
TI K--_.
;     URBAN AREAS                         ROADS                                        To Ko                                                  orod
*    SELECTED TOWNS                       RAILROADS                                                                                            U KRAIN
®     MEGYE CAPITALS                      MEGYE BOUNDARIES                                                                                      UKRAINE
@.    NATIONAL CAPITAL                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                             5toraI,ao1heIy
To Lvo.c                    /
/ ~~~MISKOLC( 
T. V.-nr   r
v  \  ¢ <\    SALGOTARJAN)                                   N NIRE YHAZA
To S5tu M...
AUSTRIA                                                                                                                                        DEBRANYA  _   aBUDAPEST  HDBDECEN   To St. M.,.
\                          ~~~~~~~~~~Pus pok /ld~
SZOMBATHELY                 S ZEKELFEHEIZV             BCnv!>                      ~                            erettyoup\>f,
rOG-< ~~~~~~~~VESZPREM                                                                                                                    T. 0,.Orde
>              1/    //~~~~,                          KECSKEMA                 
>  t      t      /               ~~~~~~~~~~Dunafoldva            \\oroOrJs
BEKESCSABA                           ROMAN  IA
t~~~~~-b.a                   SZEhSZARE)\ 
T, Kas                       APOSVAR                                                      SZEGED_                         rDAo          )             l            )
KILUDMETES       I
TN               T o- W-Lgo       i
v  ,  C ;  '0                                                                             d0 ' I,,                                                   kl , 4    .,   d, ,



