Docmt of
The World Bank
FOR 0FMCLA.L USE ONLY
j~/ zgW-  A-v
leIo No. P-59?5-HU
4EKORA1D11M  AND RECOWENDTION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTER&IONA  L BANM FOR RE=OSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPM
TO THE
ECUTIVE DIECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED WAN
IN AN AMUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$132.0 HIILION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
FOR A
PENSIONS ADI STRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
MARCH 5, 1993
*i-:    .e ,,. ,i  6            ! s.'J ' H  '  r Hl
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reeipients only in the performance of
their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Forint (Ft)
US$1.00 - Ft 79.0 (October 1992)
US$1.00 - Ft 82.7 (January 1993)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FT        -    Forints
FY        -    Fiscal Year
GDP       -   Gross Domestic Product
HIF       -   Health Insurance Fund
PF        -    Pensions Insurance Fund
PMU       -    Project Management Unit
SIA       -   National Social Insurance Administratior



FOR OMCAL USX ONLY
REPUBLIC OF HGAY
PENSIONS ADMINIS TION A   HEALT  ISURANCE PROJECT
Loan and Prgject Summary
Borrgw_gr:    Republic of Hungary
Beneficiary:  National Social Insurance Administration (SIA), Pensions
Insurance Fund (PF), and Health Insurance Fund (HIF)
Amount        US$132.0 million equivalent
terms.:       Fifteen years, including a five-year grace period, at the IBRD
standard variable interest rate.
onlending:    The Borrower will onlend in Forints to the PF and HIF either at
the National Bank of Hungary's prevailing refinancing rate
(base rate) with the Borrower bearing the foreign exchange risk
or at the prevailing Bank lending rate with the PF and HIF
bearing the foreign exchange risk.
Financing Plan:                                  Local   Foreign  Total
.    USS Million-----
Government of Hungary                            69.3        0.0    69.3
IBRD                                              0.0      132.0   132.0
.. ..  __.........   .....
Total Financing Requirements      69.3     132.0   201.3
Economic Race of Return:  Not Applicable
Staff AnMraisal Report:  No.  11291-HU
&-: IBRD-23624R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



NEMORANDUN AND RECOM11ENDATION OF THM PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DV2LEPMeNT
TO THE MEXCUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF HUGARY
FOR A MLSOS ADMI          XTN A   HE&=  XNSMRANCE PRNOJECT
PAR  I: INTRDUCIOIN
1.       I submit for your approval the following memorandum and
recommendation on a proposed loan to the Republic of Hungary for the
equivalent of US$132.0 million to help zodernize the social insurance system
and to adapt it to a market economy. The loan will be at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate, with a maturity of fifteen years, including a five
year grace period.
PART II: COUNTRY POLICIES AN4 COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEY
2.       Hungary joined the Bank in July 1982.  Since then, the Bank has
committed US$3.5 billion for a total of 36 loans, including US$136 million for
six B-loans and US$200 million for an ECO. A country Economic Memorandum,
entitled "Hungary: Reform and Decentralization of the Public Sector", was
distributed to the Executive Directors in May 1992.
Economic and Political Background
3.      ilungary was the first COMECON and Warsaw Pact country to start moving
away from rigid central planning as early as the late 1960s. The reform
process started with the adoption of the New Economic Policy in 1968 and was
never fully reversed, as happened in post-1968 Czechoslovakia. Despite
periods of decentralization, particularly in the mid-1970s, *reform communism"
allowed Hungary much more time to develop practices and attitudes conducive to
the functioning of markets than other countries in Eastern Europe and Central
Asia. While the journey toward private ownership, hard budget constraints,
and free markets and rrices started in earnest only in the mid-1980s, two
decades of experimentation with market socialism did prepare the ground.
4.       The political changes that swept through Central Europe in 1989 led
to the dissolution of the Hungarian Communist Party in October of that year.
Free elections were held in April 1990 for the first time since the Second
World War. The Government of Prime Minister Antall that came to power in the
following month was built on a center-right coalition composed of the Magyar
Democratic Forum (NDF), the Smallholders Party, and the Christian Democrats.
Starting in 1990, Hungary launched a new phase of systemic transformation,
this time unconstrained by foreign political influence and with the explicit
objective of building a private-ownership economy.
5.       The political pressures that led to the momentous events of late 1989
had resulted in excessive foreign debt accumulatic . and in a weakening of
macroeconomic management in the pre-election period. This led to a rapid
deterioration in the current account and to a severe foreign exchange crisis.



The Government that came to power in May 1990 responded forcefully to the
crisis by implementing a stabilization and structural adjustment program that
was supported by the IMF through a Stand-by Arrangement and a three-year
Extended Fund Facility, and by the World Bank through two Structural
Adjustment Loans (June 1990 and June 1991) and an Enterprise Reform Loan
(March 1992).
6.       The Government's program aimed at complementing macroeconomic
stabilization with a systemic transformation to a full-fledged market economy
through liberalizing external trade and decontrolling prices, privatizing
state-owned enterprises, and encouraging the development of the private
sector, in particular by establishing a liberal environment for foreign
investment. These policies led to a drematic turnaround of the external
accounts (see Table 1). From a deficit of 5 percent of GDP in 1989, the
current account swung into surplus starting in 1990, and remained positive in
1991 and 1992, led by a rapid expansion of exports to Western markets that
more than offset the collapse of trade with the CMEA starting in 1990. After
a slow start, foreign capital inflows accelerated rapidly in 1991, spurred by
a rapid growth of direct foreign investment that amounted to nearly US$1.5
billion in each of the last two years. As a result, international reserves
reached US$5.1 billion by the end of 1992, equivalent to about six months of
imports. It is a remarkable achievement that Hungary remained current on all
external debt obligations throughout the period.
Avenage
1989    1990    1991    1992   1993   94-96
PN.L   Proj.   proj.
GDP Growth                     0.4    -3.3   -10.2    -S.0   1.0    3.8
olw industral production     -2.0    -7.7   -16.7   -10.1   2.0    5.0
Consumption                    2.3    -3.6    -9.5    -4.0   0.5    2.7
Goss fixed investment          5.1    4.7    -5.5    -4.7   3.0    8.0
CPI (averae)                   17.0    28.9    35.0    23.0  18.0   12.0
Epos ONFS (volume indioes)     1.2    -2.7     4.7      4.7   5.5    6.3
Ipots GNFS (volume indices)    1.8    -4.6    -7.7    -4.1   7.0    8.2
Current Acount
(million dollm)               -1438    123      267     314  400  -1,000
(% of GDP)                     4.9     0.4      0.8     0.9  -1.1    -2.3
Dirc Forieign hivemeng
(million dollar.)              187     311    1459    1415  1100    .¶50
Consolddat budget
(% of GDP)                     -1.3    40.1    -4.5    -7.6  -6.2  .3.0 to -4.0



7.       The turnaround of the external situation was accompanied by a rapid
expansion of the domestic private sector, which now contributes about 30
percent of GDP, compared to less than 5 percent in 1989. At first concentrated
in trade and commerce, private sector activity subsequently extended to
industry and construction, thanks in particular to the rapid increase in the
number of joint ventures with foreign capital that contributed greatly to the
growth of exports. In 1991, the Government also launched a comprehensive
privatization program based on a multi-track strategy with. different degrees
of involvement by the State Property Agency. The objective of the program is
to reduce the share of State-owned enterprises (SOEs) to less than 50 percent
of the competitive sector by end-1994. While data are still uncertain, the
*         GoverrDent privatized about 15 percent of SOEs in the competitive sector by
the end of 1992, meeting the target set at the outset of the program. At the
same time, the Government passed several laws to facilitate the privatization
of SOEs, and a stringent bankruptcy law was adopted in January 1992.
8.       Despite the remarkable successes achieved on the external front and
in the development of the private sector, measured GDP has contracted by a
cumulative 20 percent since 1989, reflecting the impact of stabilization
policies on domestic demand, and the collapse of output in the SOE sector. As
in other countries of the Region, SOEs were hard hit by the demise of the USSR
and of the CMEA trading arrangements, as well as by increased competition from
imports. The effects of the recession were compounded by difficulties in
adjusting to the changing situation, as SOEs delayed the necessary reductions
in their work force, leading to a sharp deterioration in their productivity
and profitability. This in turn led to a rapid deterioration in the portfolio
of the commercial banks, as SOEs are the largest borrowers from the banking
system. As of June 1992, unaudited figures for the commercial banks suggest
that about 20 percent of all bank loans are classified as non-performing. A
number of banks are technically insolve.st, and some have suffered liquidity
problems. Restructuring programs have been initiated and, under the 1991
Banking Law, banks are provisioning for doubtful debts out of pre-tax income.
In January 1993, the Government approved a loan consolidation scheme covering
1991 and 1992. However, the scheme is only a partial response to the crisis,
and any sustainable resolution of the bad portfolio problem should focus on a
joint solution to the problem of loss-making SOEs, as well as on full
recapitalization and reform of the operating procedures and ownership
structures of the commercial banks.
9.       As a result of the recession, unemployment increased rapidly to an
estimated 12 percent of the labor force by end-1992. There is considerable
regional variation, with unemployment running as high as 22 percent in the
eastern region of the country. As is the case throughout Eastern Europe,
unemployment would be considerably higher were it not for the postponement of
necessary work force reductions by SOEs. The recession also led to an
increase in the number of the poor, from about 750,000 in 1987 to about 1.3
millioa in 1992 (12 percent of the populatlon). Further increases in the



- 4 -
incidence of poverty are likely as unemployment benefits run out and an
increasing number of families have to turn to social assistance as a last
resort.'
10.      Directly related to the recession and to the deteriorating situation
of SOEs, the public finance crisis is one of the most difficult issues facing
the Government today. On the revenue side, tax receipts fell short of
expectations as the drop in output was larger than expected, the SOE tax base
continued to shrink, and the Government was uuable to collect efficiently from
the expanding private sector. On the expenditure side, the rapid increase in
the number of unemployment claims and in the number of social assistance
requests exerts powerful upward pressures, which are difficult to resist in
the absence of a sharp curtailment in the acquired rights of some social
security recipients. This is unlikely to prove politically acceptable in the
short run. As a result of these claims, the consolidated state budget, which
was in equilibrium in 1990, fell into a deficit amounting to 4.5 percent of
GDP in 1991, and 7.6 percent of GDP in 1992. This sharp deterioration has
made it impossible since June 1992 to meet the original performance criteria
under ,he IMF program. The review of the program has not been completed, and
Hungary is currently not eligible to draw IMF funds.
11.      The Government was able to finance these large deficits mostly by
borrowing from domestic commercial banks, which captured the rapidly growing
household savings. Thus, the fiscal deficits were financed without increasing
foreign indebtedness or exacerbating inflationary pressures. In fact, in
1992, the Government succeeded in improving the external accounts as well as
in lowering inflation and interest rates. Fiscal deficits of the present
magnitude could, however, endanger these achievements. Moreover, household
savings absorbed by public consumption deprive the emerging private sector of
resources for investments, which are the engine of future growth. It is also
worrisome that the level of public investment, less than 3 percent of GDP by
the Central Government, is low compared to other countries at a similar stage
of development. Therefore, the fiscal adjustment measures should ensure that
the public sector has resources to develop and operate the economic and social
infrastructure of the country, in order to establish a solid ba,e for long-
term growth.
Hungay's Medium-term ProsDects and the External Environment
12.      Stabilization and Structural Change.  As it enters the third year of
the program of systemic transformation, Hungary faces a number of policy
challenges that are structural in nature. First, it is now urgent to address
frontally the interlinked problems of the deteriorating portfolio of
commercial banks and of the continued loss-making of a number of highly
indebted SOEs. Addressing these problems satisfactorily would allow the
acceleration of the privatization of both banks and enterprises. Second, the
Government has to implement a fundamental budgetary/public administration
1/       Me Ceta Sistca Office (CSO) reudy oalaes te povety l. In al 1992,  a typia uwban
fmly of 4, the poverty lin w FL 36,514 per mnth. Por a pensioe lving in a dngle person houseold, it ws FL
9,4S3.



reform, including progressive reform of the social security system, without
which a viable public finance framework cannot be established. In particular,
it needs to find ways to progressively redirect social security expenditures
away from pensions and family allowances toward growing unemployment benefits
and social assistance targeted at the poor. At the same time, the Government
has to significantly strengthen tax administration in order to broaden the tax
base to capture the newly emerging private sector, so as to generate enough
revenues to finance the costs of restructuring banks and enterprises and
associated social safety net outlays. Finally, long delayed investments in
infrastructure and environmental improvement must be launched to prevent
critical bottlenecks from constraining future growth.
13.      Over the remaining twelve to fifteen months, prior to the forthcoming
elections, (scheduled for Spring 1994), it will not be easy to build the
political consensus necessary to make a frontal attack on these structural
issues, as they would inevitably involve short-term social costs before their
long-term benefits could be felt by the population. Whatever the political
difficulties, however, these issues will event ally need to be addressed in
full if Hungary is to emerge from its present cifficulties to become a
successful market economy.
14.      Our current macroeconomic projections assume that, over the medium-
term, a sufficient degree of political consensus could be mustered to
implement the in-depth structural reforms required in the banking and
enterprise sector, in the restructuring of the budget, public administration
and social security, and in t-x administration. This would enable the
Government to accelerate enterprise and bank restructuring and privatization.
It would also reduce the state budget deficit to a level that can be financed
in a non-inflationary way and without excessive crowding-out. Freeing
domestic resources would allow a rapid expansion of private sector activity
and employment which, in turn, would reduce pressures on social safety net
outlays and release public resources to finance public investment in essential
infrastructure rehabilitation end maintenance.
15.      Under these assumptions, GDP in 1993 is projected to remain at its
1992 level or to grow only slightly, as a modest expansion of the private
sector is offset by a further decline of output in the SOE sector. From 1994
onwards, GDP growth would resume at 3 to 4 percent per year, as the private
sector's share in the economy continues to grow, and its expansion offsets the
short-term negative impact on output of restructuring and downsizing the SOE
sector. Private sector growth would provide the impetus for continued
expansion of exports, projected to grow at about 6 percent per year over the
1994-1996 period. After declining to about 6 percent of GDP in 1993, the
share of the consolidated state budget deficit in GDP would decline gradually
to about 3 to 4 percent of GDP in 1994-96. This would permit reduced reliance
on domestic financing, thereby releasing additional resources to finance the
expansion of the private sector.
16.      External Jinancing Requirements.  Increased lmports due to the much-
awaited resumption of GDP growth would result in a reappearance of current
account leficits averaging about 2 percent of CDP over the lI94-1996 period.



These deficits would be financed by direct foreign investment, which has
increased sharply in the past two years and is expected to remain at a
relatively high level during this period. At the same time, the rapici
increase in amortization payments on external debts in 1995-1996, coupled with
the high volatility of foreign exchange deposits, could lead to renewed
balance of payments pressures. A conztinued modest recourse to long-term
official borrowing and s prudent recourse to commercial borrowing could ensure
sustainable external financing of the balance of payments over the medium
term.
17.      Creditworthiness.  Hungary's impressive progress in strengthening the
current and capital accounts of the balance of payments since 1990, its good
record of foreign debt servicing, and the build-up of a comfortable reserve
position have greatly expanded its access to international capital markets.
Enterprises are borrowing commercially abroad, and the Government has
successfully placed several bond issues in international markets. Further,
the Government expects that future bond issues would cover about two-thirds of
principal repayments in the next few years, and the outstanding stock of debt
in relation to GDP would decline from about 65 percent in 1992 to about 50
percent in 1995-1996. Hungary's external financing strategy should remain
prudent, however, as the debt service ratio would remain high at about 40
percent through 1996 because of the rapid increase in amortization payments
during this period.
18.      Downside Risks.  The scenario just discussed is one of moderate
recovery led by a continued expansion of exports and a progressive
stabilization of the fiscal situation. Hungary's political and socioeconomic
situation and prospects remain subject to considerable uncertainties, however,
in particular concerning the country's external environment and the
possibility of generating a political consensus around the required structural
measures. On the external front, Hungary's prospects could be negatively
affected by a prolonged recession of the EC economies. Under such a scenario,
Hungary would be unable to maintain a strong export growth, both on account of
the low level of demand in its main export markets and on account of increased
protective measures imposed by t4he EC, through invoking the safeguard clauses
of the recently approved Association Agreement.2 Such a scenario would
result in lower growth and increased unemployment, causing severe fiscal
pressures as higher outlays relating to th3 social safety net would conflict
with lower growth in tax revenues. On the internal front, delays in
addressing the structural reforms required in the area of SOE and bank
restructuring and privatization, budgetary and social security reform, and tax
administration, would result in a recurring cycle of rising expenditures and
periodic ad hoc cuts. This could result in increased deficits of the state
budget and crowding out of the private sector, leading to a deterioration of
internal .and external equilibria, eventually requiring more painful adjustment
measures in the medium term.
2/ About one-half of Hungarian exports go to EC countries, and Rearky half of
that to Germany.



- 7-
Bank's Countr  Assistance Strateg
IER Ass1istange Proara
19.      Since lending to the country began in June 1983, the Bank's country
assistance strategy has focussed on supporting Hun8.ry's efforts at creating a
market-oriented economy. This support has been provided in three ways: (i)
by promoting reforms conducive to the development of private sector activity
(e.g., foreign trade and price liberalization, establishment of a more
transparent tax system, elimination of restrictions on entry of new firms,
phasing out of budgetary support for state enterprises, etc.); (ii) by
supporting the development of institutions (banking system, securities market,
a more flexible labor market) and services (e.g., accounting and auditing)
that facilitate pxlvate sector growth; and (iii) by attempting to target some
financial assistance to small- and medium-scale enterprises and farms.
20.      This strategy was initially implemented through a series of hybrid
loans for industrial restructuring, combining quick-disbursing funds to
support institutional and policy reform, and investment funds to support
restructuring at the enterprise and sub-sector levels. In 1987, the Bank
stepped up its support of economic reforms with an Industrial Sector
Adjustment Loan followed in 1990, at the time of the first free electlons, by
the first Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL).   This support from the Bank was
important in helping Hungary manage a severe foreign exchange shortage in the
first half of 1990. The FY90 Financial System Modernization Project provided
technical assistance for institutional development of the financial sector.
With the SAL 2 in FY91, the Bank joined other official creditors in providing
additional external resources necessary to sustain the momentum of reform.
The Enterprise Reform Loan (approved in 1992) supports the privatization
efforts of the Government, and promotes fundamental ownership and structural
reforms of state enterprises. Investment loans in agriculture, energy,
transport and telecommunications sectors have supported the implementation of
sector reforms as well as improvements in efficiency at the enterprise level.
The Human Resources Project is now proceeding well, and disbursements are
expected to speed up after initial delays in start-up activities. A mid-term
review is underway, and supervision by Resident Mission staff is facilitating
more efficient monitoring.
Prtfolio Manaaement
21.      As of January 31, 1993, the Bank has provided 36 loans for a total of
US$3.5 billion, including 28 operations for US$3.1 billion, six B-loans for
US$136.1 million, and an ECO operation for US$200 million. Of total
commitments for the 28 operations, 36 percent have been in the industrial
sector, 18 percent in the agricultural sector, 12 percent in the energy
sector, 15 percent in the transport and telecommunications sectors, 4 percent
for human resources devalopment, and the remainder (14 percent) for general
balance of payments support. Ten of these operations (totalling about US$1.2
billion) have been fully disbursed.
22.      The portfolio increasingly includes reform-oriented and inherently
complex projects. Policy-based operations account for about 23 percent of the



ongoing portfolio: in-estment loans about 38 percent; and lines of credit
about 39 percent. On balance, performance of the portfolio has been adequate
to meet most original objectives, and disbursement performance is above
average. However, lines of credit and loans to state enterprise borrowers
have been less successful than desired.
23.      Commitment and disbursement rates for lines of credit have slowed
down, and a recent joint review of all ongoing credit lines suggests that some
changes are called for. Since most of these credit lines were conceived and
approved when Hungary was under the previous regime, they were designed to be
used by large enterprises to finance their restructuring. The joint review,
however, revealed that the major demand now comes from the emerging small-
and medium-scale enterprises. Therefore, some of the remaining lines of
credit are being restructured to broaden their scope and make tilem more
flexible to meet the needs of the rapidly expanding sm6ll- and medium-scale
sector. The Integrated Agriculture Project which, from the outset, has been
directed at small- and medium-scale borrowers using more commercially oriented
procurement and loan processing procedures, is a good example and has been
disbursing at a particularly satisfactory rate.
24.      The loans to the large state enterprise borrowers (Energy
Development, Transport II, Telecommunications It) pose special problems.
These projects support the transformation of SOEs into commercially oriented
companies; however, given the scale of these enterprises and the need for
regulatory reform, corporate restructuring/privatization and large
investments, the transition is complicated, time-consuming, and subject to
much debate and political influence.  Without sufficiently decisive
restructuring, and with tariffs lagging behind inflation, they are not meeting
financial conditionalities. The projects are, however, still addressing
pressing needs, and there are plausible reasons why each case has encountered
difficulties. Given the long-term nature of the problem, the underlying
restructuring issues are still under discussion, with a view to reaching a
long-term solution.
25.      Total disbursements in FY92 were US$405 million, about 35 percent of
the undisbursed at the beginning of the year. This compares to disbursements
of US$403 million (40 percent) in FY91 and US$149 million (19 percent) in
FY90. About 54 percent of total disbursements in FY91 and FY92 reflect
support under adjustment operations linked to the progress of Hungary's
transformation program. The interrujtion of the IMF's EFF in FY93 and the
emergence of a much larger-than-programmed fiscal deficit have led to a
slowdown in disbursements under World Bank adjustment operations during the
current fiscal year.
Bank's Assistance Obiectives
26.      The Bank's objective is to continue supporting the systemic
t-insformation process in Hungary. Building on our long relationship with the
country and taking into account the recent activities of various bilateral and
multilateral organizations in the region, close coordination with other
agencies and with the authorities is essential in order to allocate resources
in the most efficient and beneficial way. Bank activities will focus on three



- 9 -
major areas: (i) financial/enterprise restructuring; ({i) budgetary/public
administration reform; and (iii) improvement of the social and economic
infrastructure.
27.      While the privatization process is ongoing, the problem of the
remaining SOEs is one of the main factors that imperil growth. In their
present shape, these enterprises are difficult to privatize, face serious
adjustment problems and, as a result, are underperforming. Since most of the
SOEs have bad and doubtful debts to the banks, the banks themselves have major
portfolio problems, are unwilling to take new risks by lending to new private
firms, and charge very large spreads that penalize potential new investment.
The Bank could play an important role in supporting a comprehensive solution
that addresses both the restructuring of the banks and the enterprises, In
order to speed up the privatization process and establish a sound financial
system for development of the private sector.
28.      Bank Economic and Sector Work will try to assist the Government in
defining the role of the public sector in the emerging market economy, as its
structure, operations and impact on economic activity are central issues in
the transformation process. While the level and balance of revenues and
expenditures are important factors affecting the macroeconomic framework, a
long-term approach should also look at their composition. On the expenditures
side, it is essential to restructure institutions and streamline the civil
service, improve the budgeting process and ensure resources for development
and operation of public investment that attracts private investment and
stimulates growth. At the same time, a thorough updating of social
expenditure priorities would help target resources to the needy under
tightening budget constraints. On the revenue side, since the major tax
reforms have been already undertaken, the priority now is to strengthen the
administration and collection systems. Given the complexity of these issues,
the Bank will conduct a fiscal issues review that will provide the analytical
framework for addressing the critical policy trade-offs now facing the
Government, in particular with respect to social security reform, targeting of
social assistance, efficiency and equity of the taxation system, and public
investment strategy in infrastructure.
29.      As mentioned above, improving the social and economic infrastructure
of the country is essential for long-term growth and development. The public
sector has a leadng, but by no means exclusive, role in these areas. Hungary
has already srarted to include private initiatives in these areas (e.g., road
construction and provision of some health services). The Bank can play a
catalyst role in this process by actively supporting innovative future
investment projects. The Bank's role would also be to ensure that
environmental factors and impacts are given due consideration in all
infrastructure projects.
Lending Strategy
30.      Building on the ongoing Enterprise Reform Loan, the Bank's dialogue
with the authorities has focussed in recent months on the interlinked problems
of the deteriorating portfolio of commercial banks and of loss-making and
highly-indebted public enterprises. The authorities recognize that the loan



- 10 -
consolidarion scheme covering 1991 and 1992 is a temporary measure, and that
dealing with the problem requires jointly addressing the problem of loss-
making SOEs as well as the recapitalization and management of commercial banks
as part of a strategy to accelerate their restructuring and privatization.
The authorities also recognize that concerted action by the Central Bank, the
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Industry, and the privatization agencies
is essential to design and implement a simultaneous solution to this problem.
If the Government decides to move ahead, we could support a program that would
aim at a joint resolution of the commercial banks' portfolio problems and at
the restructuring of loss-making SOEs, leading to an acceleration of bank and
enterprise privatization. This program could be accompanied by support to
restructuring and privatization in selected subsectors of heavy industry where
downsizing and restructuring can have a high positive impact on the
environment, and where high social costs have to be borne by the Government.
If Hungary does not advance on the enterprise/financial sector reform and/or
macroeconomic policies take a clear turn for the worse, the Bank would
consider downsizing its lending program to a core oriented towards the social
sectors, basic infrastructure and the environment.
31.      The Pension Administration and Health Insurance Project and the
Health Services and Management Project that are jointly being submitted to the
Board address the need for a thorough and difficult reform of social
expenditures. The key challenges are to contain the long-term costs of
established entitlement programs, such as pensions and family allowances,
while accommodating the temporarily high needs under newly established
unemployment benefit and social assistance programs, and to improve the
targeting of all social assistance to the poor and most vulnerable segments of
society. The proposed Pension Administration and Health Insurance Project
will make an important start in addressing these needs by supporting the
linking of benefits to individual contributions, thereby promoting efficiency
in delivery and use of benefits. The project will also provide a context for
continuing the dialogue between the Government and the Bank on possible future
changes in the design of social safety net programs to improve the targeting
and efficiency of these programs.
32.      The Tax Administration Project, recently negotiated with the
authorities and to be presented to the Board in the very near future,
constitutes an important step toward strengthening tax administration in
Hungary. It also provides a strong basis on which to build future policy
dialogue that would focus on the design and implementation of a program to
expand the tax base to include the emerging private sector and to reduce tax
evasion, thereby improving tax collection and the equity of the tax system.
33.      Finally, the third focus of support from the Bank would be on
strengthening economic infrastructure and environmental improvements, trying
to link the two whenever possible. Budgetary stringency makes it all the more
important that investments in infrastructure and environmental improvement are
designed within the framework of least-cost sectoral programs and with
regulatory policies encouraging efficiency and cost recovery as well as
private sector participation. Prospects for addressing environmental concerns
are being examined in the context of possible future projects in the energy,
transport infrastructure and urban transport sectors.



v 11 -
Areas of Spegial Embhasis
34.      On the environment, as mentioned above, the Bank's strategy is to
integrate the environmental dimension in all projects, and to ensure that
project design leads to improved environmental conditions. As in other
countries of the Region, the Bank favors reduction of ongoing pollution over
clean-up of the backlog of degradation. In this respect, possible support to
the development of urban mass transport and to the restructuring of the heavy-
industry sector could have a major beneficial impact on the environment.
35.      On social policies, a recent study carried out in Hungary suggests an
increasing incidence of poverty among low wage earners and among the
unemployed. Indeed, minimum wages and unemployment benefits fall short of the
food consumption component of the poverty line. The study also suggests that
overall income distribution is worsening, largely because of the rapidly
growing unemployment. Through policy dialogue on the evolving structure of
the safety net and on reform of the social security system, the Bank could
play a major role in helping the Government to design effective policies and
programs to reduce poverty and improve equity in the society.
Role of IFC/MIGA
36.      IFC.  The IFC has played a direct role in promoting joint ventures
with foreign partners, most recently through its participation in the
Euroventures Venture Capital Fund and in the Westel Telecommunications
Project. IFC has committed about US$150 million in 13 projects in Hungary to
date. A resident representative was appointed in 1991 and IFC continues to
expand its activities in the country.
37.      MICA.  Hungary became a member of MICA in 1988.  It was involved,
through the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC), in the acquisition
of the Tungstram Lighting Concern by the General Electric Company, although
the reinsurance contract was subsequently cancelled by OPIC. MIGA is
currently negotiating another reinsurance contract with a European national
insurance company to cover the privatization of a diversified holding company.
It is also reviewing other activities in a variety of sectors, including the
banking, pharmaceutical and agribusiness sectors. Since its inception, MIGA
has registered 42 projects in Hungary.
Cooperation with other Multilateral Institutions
38.      In addition to its direct lending, the Bank has assisted Hungary in
mobilizing resources through official and commercial cofinancing. The Export-
Import Bank of Japan cofinanced both SALs.  The European Investment Bank (EIB)
cofinanced the Second Telecommunication Project (FY91). The Bank was a
successful catalyst in mobilizing six commercial cofinancing syndications for
Bank-assisted operations from FY83 to FY85. They helped to mobilize nearly
US$1.2 billion, including the Bank's contribution of US$136 million. In all
these cofinancing operations, the Bank was able to improve the terms of
Hungarian borrowing and to introduce the country to commercial banks from
which it had not previously borrowed. The Bank also approved the first



- 12 -
Enhanced Cofinancing Operation in August 1990 which enabled Hungary to access
the Eurodollar market (to which it has subsequently returned without World
Bank assistance) and extend the maturity of its new borrowing, through the
guarantee of principal for a US$200 million bond issue.
39.      These activities and the National Bank of Hungary's commitment to
remain current on its foreign obligations preserved Hungary's access to
international financial markets and helped build the confidence that allowed
almost US$3.0 billion direct foreign investment to Hungary over the last two
years. Despite continuing macroeconomic difficulties, Hungary's success in
dealing with its external balance, attracting equity capital, developing
convertible currency exports and building confidence has been impressive, and
has built a good base for private sector growth in the latter half of this
decade.
PART III: THE PROJECT
40.      Sector Background.  The Social Insurance Administration (SIA),
presently responsible for managing the Pensions Insurance Fund (PF) and Health
Insurance Fund (HIF), faces difficult challenges durirg the transition to a
market economy. Social insurance contributions amout.; to more than 37.5
percent of gross wages, which is higher than in most industrial countries and
acts to depress the demand for labor while increasing its cost. The impact on
macroeconomic efficiency and competitiveness deserves special attention at a
time when the country is facing major industrial restructuring, and needs both
to improve its external payments position and to deal with unprecedented
levels of unemployment. Since data on individual contributions are often
lacking, it is impossible to bring about a closer relationship between
contributions and benefits. Many benefits are generous by western standards
while others fail to address poverty or to provide adequate income smoothing.
Early retirement is widespread. Sick pay, and other short-term benefits and
allowances, are poorly targeted. The absence of a broad-ranging system of
social assistance (income-tested benefits of last resort) is a major gap in
the social safety net.  The organizational strunture of the social insurance
system is outmoded, and its management and service delivery system fragmented.
The existing antiquated administrative infrastructure is inefficient, making
it impossible to introduce much-needed cost-saving policies.
41.      The Government is now trying to restructure the social insurance
system in an attempt to respond to these challenges. Two closely linked
projects, this Pensions Administration and Health Insurance Project and a
related Health Services and Management Project, will support strategic
investments required to put those institutional reforms into practice, thereby
adapting the social insurance system and health sector to a market economy.
42.      Rationale for Bank Involvement.  Bank support for the proposed
reforms in the social insurance system is justified for four reasons. First,
unnecessary and indiscriminate spending on pensions, benefits and allowances,
and health care would jeopardize fiscal stability. Second, social insurance
contributions must be contained in order to keep the rising cost of labor from
threatening economic growth and international competitiveness. Third,
continued poor economic growth, as a consequence of the failure to address the
two preceding issues, would lead to ever more restrictive public sector
budgets. This would further diminish resources for programs designed to



13 -
protect vulnerable populations against poverty and illness, thereby imposing
additional productivity losses, rather than stimulating the efficiency gains
needed to sustain recovery and growth. Finally, even with underlying policy
reforms still not fully developed, modernization of the administrative
infrastructure of the social insurance system is a necessary condition for
achieving the Government's objective of a successful transition to a market
economy.
43.      For these reasons the Government now proposes: (a) to address the
consequences of a widening income distribution by improving the targeting of
cash benefits, so as to protect vulnerable populations against poverty without
*        squandering resources on those not so threatened; (b) to improve efficiency in
the social ins'xrance system and introduce new incentive structures; (c) to
control expenditure and increase productivity of the health sector in order to
*        meet growing demands without exacerbating the fiscal crisis; and (d) to
increase the institutional capacity of the social insurance system to
implement more sophisticated targeting strategies and to administer benefit
programs of increased complexity.
44.      The desired policy and management reforms cannot be completed without
correcting the most pressing operational deficiencies. During the current
period of economic crisis, however, public sector investments, and especially
those investments with a high foreign exchange content, have long been reduced
to a level below that which is required even for maintaining the existing
capital stock. As a result, actions such as the installation of computer
facilities, construction of a new headquarters and improving the targeting of
cash benefits, that have been initiated by the Government to modernize the
administration of the social insurance system and to bring the policy
development process to fruition, remain largely incomplete. In this context,
a World Bank loan will allow the Government to continue its efforts to make
the social insurance system a contributing, rather than an impeding, factor in
the successful transition to a market economy.
45.      Project Objectives.  The Pensions Administration and Health Insurance
Project has two main objectives: (a) to improve the institutional capacity of
the social insurance system to manage its financial resources more
effectively, thereby contributing to its financial viability; and (b) to
enhance the efficiency, targeting and quality of client services financed
through the social insurance system by modernizing its administrative
infrastructure.
46.      Progect Description.  Recognizing that widespread systemic change is
a long-term process, the Pensions Administration and Health Insurance Project
will be the first of a phased series of investments that are needed to reform
the social insurance system. The proposed Project provides technical
assistance, fellowships, training, preparation of studies, computer hardware
2/ IEPD, Hungary - Rm Mg Ipecentralisation of the Public Sector, Volumes 1 and 2, Report No. 10061-
HU, January 30, 1992; ILRD, Dmlmarv - Reform of the Secial Policy and Distribution Svstem, July 17.
1991; IMF. Social gecurity Reform in Hunatry, Prepared by 0. lKopits, R. lolazman, G. Schieber, and E.
Sidgwick, October 12, 1990; lRD, HuMeErv - The Transition to a Market Econcomv Critical Human
Resources Issues, Report No 8665-lU, August 6. 1990; and I8RD. NunAery - Nousina Policy Reform in
Nunnery, Report No. 9031-bU, November 1990. The Hunger Human Resources Project (Loan 3313-lU) deals
with the education sector and unemployment services. The First Finanelal Systm Modernization Project
(Loan 3341-W1) deals with the bankng system.



- 14 -
and software, equipment, teaching materials, limited civil works and
refurbishment of facilities, and incremental recurrent costs through the
following two components.
47.      The Management Development and Planning Component (US$24.1 million
base cost) will improve the institutional capacity of the social insurance
system to manage its financial resources more effectively by: (a) providing
management support in implementing major projects needed to upgrade its
administrative infrastructure; (b) developing a detailed strategic systems
plan and introducing needed organizational changes; (c) strengthening the
policy-making, planning and evaluation capabilities of Hungarian policymakers
and managers; and (d) assisting in the assessment of future investment
strategies.
48.      The Operational Infrastructure Component (US$133.9 million base cost)
will modernize the administrative infrastructure of the social insurance
system by:  (a) developing application software; and (b) introducing
computerized data processing, modern financial management, and efficient
communications systems, as well as an upgraded office environment.  Through
this component, equipment and materials needed to adopt modern approaches in
the areas of service delivery, data processing and financial control will be
acquired or, when appropriate, produced.
49.      At the Government's request, retroactive financing of up to
US$8.0 million will be included to cover the cost of equipment, specialist
services and training necessary for early project start-up. Retroactive
financing will be limited to expenditures incurred prior to loan signing but
after July 10, 1992. The Borrower will onlend in Forints to the Pensions
Insurance Fund (PF) and Health Insurance Fund (HIF) either at the National
Bank of Hungary's prevailing refinancing rate (base rate) with the Borrower
bearing the foreign exchange risk or at the prevailing Bank lending rate with
the PF and HIF bearing the foreign exchange risk. In both instances, the
grace period and maturity will be identical to those of the Loan Agreement.
The subsidiary loan agreement will specify the proportion of the repayment
obligations between the two funds. A breakdown of costs and the financing
plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and
disbursements are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing
events is shown in Schedule C. The status of Bank Group operations in Hungary
is given in Schedule D.
50.      Project ImDlementation.  The project will be implemented over a five-
year period by the staff of an Implementing Agency,&/ County Directorates and
local Service Offices, and in divisional units that are being organized to
carry out operations more effectively.  Coordination of project-related
activities of these agencies will be the responsibility of a Project
Management Unit (PHU). The PMU will facilitate resource flows to the
implementing units, and to the extent appropriate, consolidate the procurement
j/  The Impl.menting Agency will be the current SIA or the legal entity (Service and Executive
Organization) that will be established by the two Funds to perform Joint function such as common
service delivery, financial management and information technology.



- 15 -
of goods and services for greater efficiency and for economies of scale. It
will serve as a clearing house for project-related issues requiring the
attention of top management and external agencies, including the Bank.
51.      Proiect Sustainability.  Incremental recurrent costs will arise
mainly from: (a) the operation and maintenance of data processing equipment;
(b) annual licensing and upgrading costs of computer applications software;
(c) card production equipment operations and supplies; and (d) salaries of
incremental staff to operate the new data processing equipment. These are
expected to be more than offset by budgetary savings achieved through the
efficiency gains described under project benefits.
52.      Program Objective Categories.  The project supports the Government's
policy of alleviating poverty, improving effectiveness and efficiency of the
social insurance system, and reducing the role of the state in financing
pensions, benefits and allowances, and health services. It includes the
following categories: 50 percent public administration, 30 percent health
care and 20 percent poverty.
53.      Environmental Asoects. This is a Category C project:  "No
appreciable environmental impact".
54.      Agreements Reached.  The following actions are required to assure
successful implementation of the project and attainment of the broader project
objectives.
55.      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)      PF, HIF and the Implementing Agency shall carry on their operations
and conduct their affairs in accordance with sound administrative and
financial practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers;
(b)      during execution of the Project, PF and HIF shall not increase the
total combined employer/employee contribution rate and shall ensure
that transferr obtained from the Borrower's budget would be made
exclusively to cover: (i) non-insurable risks; (ii) payment to non-
contributing recipients of cash benefits; and (iii) other specified
non-contributing categories;
(c)      PF, HIF and the Implementing Agency shall improve the ratio (in
percent) of aggregate accounts receivables in arrears of PF and HIF,
net of: (i) accumulated interest and fines on overdue accounts
receivables; (ii) receivables in arrears due from enterprises under
bankruptcy or liquidation procedures; and (iii) payment obligations
of enterprises under separate settlements, and the contributions
having fallen due to PF and HIF during the ongoing year, compared
with such ratio at the end of the previous year, by at least: 4
percent as of December 31, 1995; 6 percent as of December 31, 1966;
8 percent as of December 31, 1997; and 10 percent as of December 31,
1998;



- 16 -
(d)      PF and HIF shall, upon the constitution of their respective general
assemblies and presidiums in accordance with the provisions of Law
LXXXIV, and in order to secure the continuity of Project execution,
set up a legal entity, which will enter into all the rights and
assume all the obligations of SIA under the Project Agreement; the
responsibilities of this new entity will consist of joint activities
of PF and HIP in order to avoid duplication of capacities (e.g., data
processing, information technology, collection of contributions and
cash benefit payments), and it will include and maintain divisions
responsible for information technology and service delivery, and a
unit responsible for planning development, all with proper staffing;
(e)      no later than March 31 of each year, during the execution of the
Project, the Implementing Agency shall furnish to the Bank a
technical and financial report, of such coverage, detail, and format
as the Bank may reasonably request, on the status of Project
implementation (as of December 31 of each year) and review
thereafter, with the Bank, issues related to the execution of the
Project.
Conditions of Effectiveness
56.      For loan effectiveness, the Bank will require that:
(a)      the Implementing Agency has signed a contract to employ a management
consultant firm to support the PHU in accordance with the provisions
of Section II of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement; and
(b)      the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower on the one side, and PF, HIF and Implementing Agency on the
other.
57.      Benefits.  The Project's ultimate benefit will be to strengthen the
programs and financial viability of the PF and HIP, within the constraints
imposed by tight control over public expenditures. Administrative
modernization will lead to: (a) improved client services through more
efficient benefit payments and responsiveness to benefit inquiries; and
(b) cost savings through more effective administrative methods and more
efficient policy options than are possible using the current system of manual
recordkeeping. For example, the delays between client application and benefit
payments will be significantly reduced through on-line access to an
eligibility database and automatic triggering of certain benefits related to
births and deaths. Local Service Offices will improve client access. In the
case of financial management, improved access to information on individualized
contributions records and eligibility status will tighten control over fraud
and abuse. With outstanding contributions receivables of Ft. 49 billion
(US$636 million) in 1991, improving the collection of contributions and
reducing debt by less than 30 percent over the life of the Project will allow
the PF and HIF to repay the original investment. If just five percent of the
likely costs of pharmaceutical benefits and hospital care can be economized by
reducing waste in their provision, savings in overall health care expenditures
in excess of the total yearly cost of the Project will be achieved. Such



- 17 -
savings could be redirected to other areas of the health sector. This will
lead to significant cross-benefits for the companion Health Services and
Management Project.
58.      Risks.  The Project's major risks include: (a) the weak institutional
capacity to implement meaningful reforms; (b) the prospective creation of new
divisions in the context of a broader restructuring of the administration of
the social insurance system for which the final configuration and timing
remains uncertain; and (c) volatility in the political commitment of
Parliament to introduce cost saving policies. To contain these risks within
prudent limits, the Project includes the following specific activities.
Extensive technical assistance and twinning arrangements with similar
institutions in western countries will be provided to strengthen project
management capacity and to assist in the detailed design of a strategic
systems plan. The new Information Technology Division and Service Delivery
Division will be structured as much as possible around existing divisions to
mitigate the risk of creating these new units and to ensure that they are
rapidly made operational. Finally, training and fellowships will be provided
through the Planning Development Unit to strengthen policy-making, management
and evaluation. This will reduce the risks due to inexperience in operating
new services and foster a positive setting for an ongoing evolution in cost-
saving social insurance policies. The Bank will conduct a mid-term review of
these policies to ensure that they will have been effective in protecting the
financial viability of the PF and HIF, and that they will not have had adverse
spill-over effects on the state budget.
59.      Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed loan will comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments 
Washington, D.C.
March 5, 1993



-18 -                       Schedule A
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSIONS ADHINISTTION A   HEALTH INSImA=- PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Estimated Project Costs: 1/
LA    EQ*s    Z:QsA
------US$ Million------
Management DeveloDment and Planning
1.  Project Management                                  0.7       3.6      4.3
2.  Systems Planning and Organization                   2.8       9.1     11.9
3.  Planning Development Unit (PDU)                     0.6       5.3      5.9
4.  Preinvestment Study                                 0.0       2.0      2.0
Subtotal Management Development and Planning        4         ..&     24.
Operational Infrastructure
5.  Application Software                                3.6      20.2     23.8
6.  Technological Infrastructure                       45.5      64.6    110.1
Subtotal Operational Infrastructure                49 14             13392
Total Base Costs                                       53.3    104.7    158.0
Physical Contingencies                                  5.0       8.5     13.5
Price Contingencies                                    10.9      18.9     29.8
....    ..... ..  .... .....
Total Project Costs                                69.2    132.0    201.3
Local.  Foreign  Total
.---vUS$ MilliJn--- .
Government of Hungary                                   69.3       0.0    69.3
IBRD                                                     0.0    132.0   132.0
Total Financing Requirements                        69.3    132.0   201.3
_ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~                                      -
1/ Detailed numbers cu not add to totals because of rounding.
Includes taxes and duties estimated at U036.4 million.



-19  -                                     gcbedule B
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSIONS ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS n/
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Not Bank     TOTAL   I IDR
Category of Expenditure           ICB         LCD      OTHER   Financed      COST   Financing
Civil Works                                     1.9             --               1.9
(0.0)                           (0.0)      0o
Furniture                             --                  2.0 /        --       2,0
(1.8)                 (1.8)      90X
Eequipment/Computer Systems          82.3       --        2.6 k/      --        84.9
(74.0)               (2.6)                 (76.5)     90O
Software/Books/Copyrights            --         --        3.2 LI      --        3.2
(3.0)                 (3.0)      901
Misc Materials/Supplies               --        --        2.4 9/                 2.4
(2.0)                 (2.0)      90%
Fellowships/Study Tours               --        --         1.5 A/                1.5
(1.5)                 (1.5)     1002
Specialists                           --        --       35.7 S/      --       35.7
(35.7)                (35.7)     1002
Studies/Program Development          --                  11,4 Q/      --        11.4
(11.4)                (11.4)     lO0
Local Staff Salaries                  --        --                    7.5 Li   7.5
(0.0)      O0
Building/Computer/Equip O&M          --         --        --         15.0 V    15.0
(0.0)       OX
Computer Software Maintenance              --              --         3.4 4/    3.4
(0.0)       ox
Ron-salary Operational Costs               --        --              32.3 V    32.3
(0.0)      O0
Total Financing Requirements        82.3        1.9      58.9        58.2     201.3
(74.0)     (0.0)    (58.0)               (132.0)       6S2
MOMES: Nimbers may not add up due to rounding.
A/  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts finmaced by the Bank Loan.
k/  International shopping (aggreSate-US$4.4 million) less then US$300,000 each contract.
i/ Xntellectual property (ag6regtte-US$3.0 million) purchased directly/negotiated with
publishers and copyright owners.
J  Prudent local shopping/off-the-shelf purchases (aggregate-U52.0  illion) less than
US$50,000 each contract.
j/  Procurement in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
V/ Locally financed salaries and non-salary item of recurrent expenditure procured
in accordance with standard government procedures.



- 20 -                  Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
EENSIONS ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
Proposed Disbursement Categories
Category                      Amount       X of Expenditures to be Financed
of Loan
(Million Dollar
Equivalent)
(1) Goods, including           77.0        100% of foreign expenditures, 100l
equipment, computer hard-                  of local expenditures (ex-factory
ware and software,                         cost) and 751 of local expenditures
furniture, supplies, books                 for other items procured locally.
and training materials
(2) Consultants' services      45.0        100l
and fellowships
(3) Unallocated                10.0
Total               132.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD FY                          FY93   FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98
----                           .     ...  .... -  -    ....    ...     ....
Annual                            8.0   14.0    27.3    38.5    28.1    16.1
Cumulative                        8.0   22.0    49.3    87.8   115.9   132.0
Cumulative as % of Total           6X    171      371     67X     881    1001



* 21 -                  Schedulo C
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PENSIONS ADMINISTRATION ANgD HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a) Time taken to prepare:             14 months
(b) Prepared by:                       Alexander S. 'reker (Mission Leader)
Friedrich Peloschek (Senior Counsel)
Leonardo Concepcion (Sr. Impl. Spec.)
Ilona Szemzo (Operations Officer)
Khalifa Ikramullah (Inf. Tech. Spec.)
(c) First Bank mission:                May 1991
(d) Appraisal mission departure:       June 1992
(e) Negotiations:                      January 1993
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:   June 1993
(g) List of relevant PCRs and PPARS: None



- 22  -                         SCHEDULE D
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPEATIONS IN HUNGARY
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS _/
(As of December 31, 1992)
USS Million
Loan    Fiscal                                                                (Less Cancellations)
No.     Year          Borrower                  Proiect                      Loan      Undisbursed
Sixteen Loans Fully Disbursed, including six B-Loans                       1,302.9
Of Which: SALs. SECALs and Program Loans
2965    1988    Republic of Eungary        Ind. Sector Adjustment Loan       200.0
3328    1990    Nat'l Bank of Hungary      Structural Adjustment Loan 1      200.0
Total Fully Disbursed SAL, SECAL and Program Loans          400.0
Loans Under Disbursement:
2697    1986    Republic of Hungary        Power                              64.0        22.50
2700    1986    Nat'l Bank of Hungary      Ind. Restructuring I              100.0        10.93
2709    1986    Nat'l Bank of Hungary      Ind. Energy Conservation           25.0         3.62
2834    1987    Nat'l Bank of Hungary      Ind. Restructuring II             150.0        38.96
2847    1987    Republic of Hungary        Telecommunications                 70.0         4.26
2936    1988    Nat'l Bank of Hungary      Agroprocessing Modernization       70.0        25.59
2966    1988    Nat'l Bank of Hungary      Technology Development             50.0        17.73
3020    1989    Nat'l Bank of Hungary      Ind. Restructuring III            140.0       100.64
3032    1989    Republic of Hungary        Transport II                       95.0        45.76
3055    1989    Nat'l Bank of Hungary      Energy Development (Conserv.)      10.0         6.77
3056    1989    Nat'l Oil & Gas Trust      Energy Development (Oil & Gas)   100.0         64.91
3191    1990    Nat'l Bank of Hungary      Financial Systems Moderniz.        66.0        36.14
3229    1990    Nat'l Bank of Hungary      Integrated Agricultural Export   100.0         21.64
3264    1991    Hungarian Telecom. Co.    Telecommunications II              150.0       136.2
3313    1991    Republic of Hungary        Human Resources Development       150.0       136.85
3347    1991 b/ Nat'l Bank of Hungary      Structural Adjustment Loan TI    250.0         75.00
3459    1992 h/ Nat'l Bank of Hungary      Enterprise Reform Loan            200.0        99.80
3509    1993    Nat'l Bank of Hungary      Product Market Development        100.0        94.01
3549    1993 £1 Republic of Hungary        Roads                              90.0        90.00
Total                                    3,482.9 4/
Of which: Repaid                           447.7
Total now held by the Bank               3.035.2
Total Amount Sold                            0.0
Of which Repaid:                           0.0
Total undisbursed                                    1.231.33 #J
The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in
execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
SAL/SECAL Loan.
Not yet effective.
A/      Includes the $200 million ECO operation which was approved by the Executive Directors in July 1890.



23  -                            SCHEDULE I
Page 2 of 2
TM STATUS OF BANK 6RCUP OPERATIONS IN HUNGARY
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1992)
Gross Co¢mitments
Fiscal                                          Type of                              USS Million------
XYar          Obligor                          Business                        Loan    Ecuity   Total
1987    UNIC Bank                          Commeroial Banka                      -      3.23      3.23
1987    Agroferm                           Prepared Animal Feed                 8.55   2.70    11.25
1988    Glass Wool                         Glass & Glass Products               3.44   1.39       4.83
1S89    Glass Wool                         Non-Metallic Mineral Products          -     0.14      0.14
1989    Dunastyr                           Plastic Materials                   28.64   3.76    32.40
1990    Dexter Mold                        Plastic Materials                    2.97   0.93       3.90
1990    FBF                                Securities Market                      -     7.50      7.50
1990    FEIA                               Securities Market                      -     0.04      0.04
1990    Tetra Pak                          Paper Containers/Boxes               7.40   3.11    10.51
1991    Budapest Bank                      Multi-Purpose Banks                 24.35    -        24.35
1991    Magyar Suzuki                      Motor Vehicles                      32.14   6.52    38.66
1991    lMoB                               Investment/Merchant Banking            -     1.48      1.48
1992    Glass Wool                         Glass & Non-MetaLlic Mineral          -      0.50      0.50
1992    FAUIC                              Insurance Companies                   -      2.53      2.53
1992    Uniebank                           Commercial Banks                    10.00    -        10.00
1992    Euroventures Hun.                                                        -      2.57      2.57
1992    Westel                             Commnications                       15.00    -        15.00
1993    Bub-Csini                          Textiles                             0.37                3
Total Gross Comnitaents                                      132.87  36.38   169.24
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments,
Write-offs and Sales                                  14.56   5.76    20.33
Total Comritments Held by IFC                                118.30  30.61   148.92
Total Undisbursed                                             52.43   2.05    54.48
Total Outstanding                                             65.87  28.56    94.43



H U  N  G  A R Y                                             SLOVAK REPUBLIC  
URBAN AREAS                 ROADS                            ro Koi
MEGYE CAPITALS               MMY = OUNDAPES                                                            U KRAIN E
NATIONAL CAPITAL      -     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES         t                
TW.,uIwose  WiKOV X  
_' <'7tS  "  i    '  '  \                / TO'N" za
AUTRIA/ 5                                                                              EE  )RNI
\   v __g_-itECS                 jA      v       t                                 KILOMETKECS
g rO o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ESZARDo
i!  ~~~o-b-t* nw                                                                                                          > 



