Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20598
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(35960; 3596A; 3596S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$34.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
FOR PENSIONS ADMINISTRATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE PROJECT (PAHIP)
June 28, 2000
Poverty Reduction & Economic Management Department (ECSPE)
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 12/31/1999)
Currency Unit = Forints (HUF)
HUF 1.00 = US$ 0.0039
US$ 1.00 = HUF 252.46
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APEH                Tax and Financial Audit Office
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
DEM                 Deutsche Mark
DRG                 Diagnostic Related Groups
HIF                 Health Insurance Fund
IT                  Information Technology
NHIFA               National Health Insurance Fund Administration
NPIA                National Pensions Insurance Administration
PAHIP               Pensions Administration and Health Insurance Project
PAYG                Pay-as-you-go
PMU                 Project Management Unit
PSAL                Public Sector Adjustment Loan
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SI                  Social Insurance
SISP                Strategic Information Systems Plan
SPFS                State Private Funds Supervision
US$                 US Dollar
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Roger W. Grawe
Sector Manager/Director:   Pradeep Mitra
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Friedrich Konigshofer



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    9
6. Sustainability                                                                       12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      15
9. Partner Comments                                                                     15
10. Additional Information                                                              27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






ProjecL ID: P008495                                         Project Name: PENSIONS ADM & HEALTH
Team Leader: Friedrich Konigshofer                       _  TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: June 26, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: PENSIONS ADM & HEALTH                            L/C/TFNumber: 35960; 3596A; 3596S
Country/Department. HUNGARY                                                Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: BA - Civil Service Reform; HY - Other Population,
Health & Nutrition
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/26/91                                  Effective:                     11/09/93
Appraisal:  06/12/92                                    MTR:                       07/16/97
Appgroval:  04/20/93                                 Closing: 06/30/98             12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY/SIA; PF; HIF
Other Partners:
STAFIF                Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:       Johannes F. Linn
Countiy Manager:      Roger W. Grawe                             Kemal Dervis
Sector Manager:       Pradeep Mitra                               Ralph Harbison
Team Leader at ICR    Friedrich Konigshofer                      Alexander S. Preker
ICR Primary Author.   Friedrich Konigshofer;
Alexander S. Preker; Sati Achath
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
QAG reviewed the pro/ect in tie jfll oj /99 7, after the mid-ter m review nmission and the restructuring of the
project NVo major issues emerged in this review.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
In the period immediately following the economic transition, Hungary introduced a payroll tax to
replace general revenues in the financing of health care. The intention was to make social insurance
contributions more transparent to contributors and to send a message to the population that although health
service would continue to be free at the point of contact (prepaid), they were not free to the tax payer.
Originally this payroll tax was collected by a unified social insurance administration responsible for a wide
range of cash benefits such as pensions and benefits in kind such as health care. Complex cross subsidies
and lack of modem data and financial management systems made this unified system unmanageable. A
major goal of the reform which the project was designed to support was to separate the health and pensions
components of this unified system to make each more actuarially balance and financially sustainable in the
medium term. Similar reforms have been on the agenda to separate unified pensions from health insurance
system in Latin America and other countries that have made the mistake of joining such benefits under a
single scheme.
The two main objectives of the Pensions Administration and Health Insurance Project (PAHIP)
were: (a) to improve the institutional capacity of the social insurance system to manage its financial
resources more effectively, thereby contributing to its financial viability; and (b) to enhance the efficiency,
targeting and quality of client services financed through the social insurance system by modemizing its
administrative infrastructure.
Although it was anticipated that changes in the organizational and institutional arrangements for
the social insurance system would require modifications in the original implementation strategy, the
intention from the onset was to maintain the original objectives throughout the project cycle even if
implementation arrangements needed to be changed. The two beneficiary organizations were the National
Health Insurance Fund Administration (NHIFA) and the National Pensions Insurance Administration
(NPIA) which soon at the start of project implementation represented the Social Insurance (SI) system of
Hungary.
During its implementation, the project was constantly affected by changes in the govemance of SI,
from the introduction of self-governments in 1993, to their abolition in 1998, and, in between, their tug of
war with the Government caused by escalating St deficits. The project was also impacted by the
preparations for the pensions reform (introduction of a second pillar) in 1996/97. Nevertheless, a well
prepared mid-term review in mid 1997 adjusted the project to still attainable investment goals, extended the
closing date from June 30, 1998 to December 31, 1999, and canceled US$48 million equivalent. However,
continuing disagreements between the two SI entities and the Government did not allow the practical
implementation of the agreed and signed restructuring of the project to proceed, nor did it enable the
realization of the planned assistance by the project for the implementation of the Public Sector Adjustment
Loan (PSAL).
In May 1999, the Government decided to let the project close on December 31, 1999, within its
limited achievements, and effect another cancellation of loan funds (in the amount of US$45 million
equivalent). This was followed in November 1999 by a further cancellation of loan funds of $4 million
equivalent to reflect a shift of the contribution management tasks which were moved from NHIFA to the
National Tax Administration, reflecting the latter's assumption of responsibility for SI contributions
collection. Since the loan had been converted to single currency (DEM) since May1997 and the DEM has
recently depreciated against the US$, the total expected loan use at the end of the project was only US$34
million equivalent, compared to the original loan amount of US$132 million.
- 2 -



After the closing date of the loan, the Government assumed the responsibility for fully
implementing the Pensions Records Management contract. Therefore, investments achieved under the
project could rightfully be seen as $10 million higher, equivalent to a loan use of US$43.5 million.
The turf battles during the entire implementation of the project, and the attendant uncertainties
about policy direction, had continuously stifled the pursuance of the original project objectives, and allowed
only limited progress toward them. However, some progress was possible, and with the second
restructuring, the Government also facilitated an orderly completion of remaining part of the project.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable
3.3 Original Components:
The project was designed to provide technical assistance, fellowships, training, preparation of
studies, computer hardware and software, equipment, teaching materials, limited civil works and
refurbishment of facilities, and incremental recurrent costs. The project's original design consisted of the
following two components:
(i) A Management Development and Planning Component (US$24.1 million base cost including
Borrower contribution) designed to improve the institutional capacity of the social insurance system to
manage its financial resources more effectively by: (a) providing management support in implementing
major projects needed to upgrade its administrative infrastructure; (b) developing a detailed strategic
systems plan and introducing needed organizational changes; (c) strengthening the policy-making, planning
and evaluation capabilities of Hungarian policy makers and managers; and (d) assisting in the assessment
of future investment strategies.
(ii) An Operational Infrastructure Component (US$133.9 million base cost including Borrower
contributions) designed to modernize the administrative infrastructure of the social insurance system by:
(a) developing application software; and (b) introducing computerized data processing, modem financial
management, and efficient communications systems, as well as an upgraded office environment.
3.4 Revised Components:
The mid-term review of 1997 revised the Operational Infrastructure Component and extended the
loan closing date to December 31, 1999. The revision reflected a number of key factors, namely, (i) the
irretrievably slow progress that NHIFA had made in preparing the investments for financial management
and health expenditure control application systems; (ii) the unresolved situation about the future
management of the SI contribution collection; (iii) the major reform of the country's pension system that
highlighted the issues related to item (ii) and had created new stakeholders in the country's SI system (a
Government Commissioner office for SI databases, and a new public agency supervising the 2nd pillar);
and (iv) pervasive changes in technology (from mainframe to client/server architectures) and the
accompanying dramatic fall in the prices of off-the-shelf information technology (IT).
Accordingly, the content of the remaining NHIFA infrastructure investments under the loan was
substantially curtailed, and two new implementation components were added to support the pensions
reform, i.e., US$8 million equivalent to support the work of the Government Commissioner for SI
- 3 -



databases (Central Statistical Office), and US$2 million equivalent to support the creation of a 2nd pillar
database of the insured at the State Private Funds Supervision agency. No fundamental revision was
needed for the NPIA component of the project.
As it happened and is described elsewhere in this report, in practice neither did NHIFA achieve
access to the loan ftmds per the revised component implementation plan, nor did the two new participants
manage to spend any of their allocation. Therefore, the project eventually closed with a further-reduced
NHIFA infrastructure component, and without achievement on the two new components. However, the
NPIA component remained as planned, although the Government had to assume responsibility for the full
implementation of the large Pensions Records contract after the closure of the loan.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry was satisfactory. The original project was designed in great detail with
technical assistance provided by the Australian Health Insurance Commission which had undertaken a
similar project 10 years earlier and had implemented this plan in 9 months. The design tried to apply this
experience to the Hungarian context adjusted for more limited implementation capacity and a shifting
political environment. The project reflected the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) priorities at the time,
and preparations were coordinated with the Health Project supporting the country's health services delivery
system. The mid-term review adjusted the project in line with needs of the PSAL. Indeed, the restructured
PAHIP was intended to support the PSAL's pension reform by providing supervision and implementation
investments for about a year. Therefore, PAHIP's quality at entry, including quality at the restructuring, is
rated satisfactory.
At the time of project preparation there was great uncertainty about the future governance and
organization of SI in Hungary. However, there is no question that major investments were needed and that
the basic health insurance and pensions infrastructure would be similar -- although not identical -- under
various governance arrangements. The implementation, while slow and often hampered, resulted in a much
improved administrative infrastructure which produces benefits that were resilient to the fundamental
changes that did occur during the project. The altemative would have been to have no project or a smaller
project (as it became in reality).
When the loan was approved in April 1993, successful SI self-government elections were just
being held, following the Hungarian Parliament's Act LXXXIV of 1991 which had created the new SI
governance. While the Bank's team had thorough knowledge of this act, it was clear that the new situation
would affect the start-up of the project in a not entirely calculable manner. Indeed, a new (subsidiary,
country-internal) agreement had to be developed, complementing the Loan Agreement. The new
Self-governments decided to redo the Strategic Information Systems Plan (SISP), thus adding a delay of
more than a year to the start of implementation work. On the other hand, the project had been fully
prepared at the time it was approved by the Bank, and the only option would have been to delay its
approval subject to revised agreements. In retrospect, there would have been no quick way to attain these
revised agreements.
Original sizing of the loan amount. In retrospect the investment estimates for IT were clearly too
high. However, at the time of project preparation, the triumph of client/server architectures over
mainframes (for all levels of computer performance) and the resulting truly amazing decreases in computer
hardware costs were not entirely foreseeable.
-4 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
(i)    Improving the institutional capacity of the Social Insurance System.
The project introduced significant policy reforms which were consistent with the original project
objectives. Under the Pensions System, the project introduced a multi-tier pensions system, with: (a) a
voluntary funded private third pillar; (b) a compulsory funded private second pillar; and (c) a restructured
compulsory pay-as-you-go (PAYG) public first pillar (changes in retirement age and benefit schedule).
The Health Insurance System undertook a restructuring of its system of health care financing, with: (a)
introduction of a payroll tax as the main source of revenue; (b) performance-based financing system to pay
for providers, i.e., modified Diagnostic-Related-Groups (DRGs) to pay for hospitals, and capitation
payments for general practitioners; (c) a downsizing of the hospital sector with closure of beds; (d)
modifications in the pharmaceutical benefits system, including increases in co-payments; and (e) significant
restructuring of short-term cash benefits, i.e., the transfer of a large share of the responsibility for sick pay
from the state to employers and the tightening of eligibility for sick pay and disability pensions. A new
Treasury System introduced financial transactions related to the two social insurance funds.
The project also led to corresponding organizational and institutional reforms. The original
consolidated Social Insurance Agency was split into two semi-autonomous administrative units: the
National Health Insurance Fund Adcninistration (NHIFA), and the National Pensions Insurance
Administration (NP IA), and governance of the social insurance system was transferred from the Ministry
of Welfare to two new Self-governments. NHIFA and NPIA undertook significant internal restructuring
and management reforms, including a split into separate physical locations. The financing of the two
branches of social insurance was also separated, including the elimination of some cross-subsidies from the
NPIA to the NHIFA.
The project also supported strengthening the management of the health insurance and pensions
system by: (a) providing high level professional support to project management and information
technology development; (b) completing a detailed SISP and several organizational reviews which could
form the basis for most major investments; and (c) through yearly financial audits of the two SI
organizations, the organization of several high level policy conferences, multiple study tours and
fellowships, an actuarial analysis of the health insurance system, and an extensive management training
program for mid- to high-level managers in the NHIFA.
However, while the above achievements were significant, several factors adversely affected the full
realization of the objectives envisaged under the project. This is reflected by the fact that out of the original
loan amount of US$ 132 million, only US$34 million was used and also by the fact that many of the
activities decided at project appraisal were never implemented.
The Government policy which came into effect soon after the Mid-Term Review to restrict the
utilization of the Bank funds was a major single factor which prevented the project from achieving its
objectives. For instance, even though US$48 million was available to NHIFA, the new policy restrained
NHIFA from utilizing this amount. The carrying forward of the 1998 debt to 1999 further compounded the
problem, as a result of which, NHIFA was left with only US$3.1 million for spending in 1999.
The change in Government twice, once in 1994 and then in 1998, and the resulting shifts in
government policies and priorities also affected the achievement of project objectives. For instance, the
-5-



abolition of two Self-Governments in 1998, and the transfer of contribution collection from NHIFA to
APEH in 1999 hindered the project's achievements.
In addition, NHIFA and NPIA also faced a number of significant challenges. There were serious
structural deficits in the financing arrangements for NHIFA, caused mainly due to the fact that the
contribution payments from the working part of the population did not fully cover the expenditure incurred
by the inactive part of the population (children, dependents, pensioners, the unemployed, and other
non-active population groups). Due to the reform of the SI's pensions system (introduction of a second
pillar), NPIA management also needed to work through a period of massive changes in governance and
procedures.
Lack of consensus on policy directions and weak stewardship by the Ministry of Health were major
barriers to significant reform in the health system (financing and service delivery). In health financing,
there was an obvious need to move towards more strategic purchasing arrangements. In the service
delivery system too, there was a need for a more appropriate balance between management autonomy, the
incentives introduced through performance-based purchasing arrangements, and market exposure.
In addition, as a result of funding problems, absence of necessary policy decisions, and change of
policy, even though they were planned, the project could not implement the following systems: (a) personal
ID and eligibility system; (b) contribution collection system; (c) health care reimbursement system; and (d)
financial management system.
(ii)    Modernizing the Administrative Infrastructure. While this objective remained central to both
NHIFA and NPIA throughout the project and captures the bulk of the investments accomplished, progress
was much slower than originally envisaged. A critical assessment of the factors affecting implementation
can be found in section 5 of this report.
In the case of NIHIFA, over long time the top management remained preoccupied with
improvements to the contributions collection system. While this area originally had been within the
project's scope, the emerging conflict between the Government and the SI Self-Governments about the
future course on contributions collection resulted in an understanding reached in mid 1995 to keep the area
out of the Bank project. However, after the decisions on the large-scale pensions reform and the
Government Decree (No. 2084/1997) establishing a Commissioner for the SI databases, utilization of the
loan for the area of contributions collection was once again agreed, though in a strictly limited fashion.
Unfortunately, the highly charged issues of responsibility for the revenues side continued to interfere with
PAHIP's implementation progress by using up the major part of management's attention, and leading to the
neglect of the planned initiatives in financial management and expenditure control. Nevertheless, as a
positive factor, the decision to re-open the area of contributions collection allowed to maximize the
productive use of infrastructure investments (hardware and communications) as had been made in
preparation of the budget/expenditure management systems. It attests to the usefulness of the investments
in spite of the adversity suffered during implementation, that when the new Government shifted SI
contributions collection to the tax authority (APEH), the majority of the PAHIP infrastructure investments
were also transferred, and these indeed were among the most coveted assets redistributed.
In NPIA, the project had always been geared to only the development of a Pensions Records
Management system. This objective has indeed been achieved, though the contract is still under
implementation, but with remaining financing by the Govermment. The delays in the implementation of this
component had their reason in the complexity in preparing a very large turnkey procurement. The fact that
this elaborate procurement of US$18 million was successful and passed not only the Bank's but also the
-6 -



new Government's scrutiny, represents a true achievement of PAHIP. Provided the contract completes as
planned, Hungary's SI system will have at its disposal a powerful new information asset.
4.2 Ozutputs by components:
(i)    Management Development and Planning Component. (a) Thanks to engaging highly qualified
management consultants, the implementation enjoyed the benefit of best possible project management
support. However, owing to budget and other restrictions affecting implementation as further explained in
section 5, the service provided by the management consultants unfortunately had less leverage on
productive material investments than would otherwise have been possible. (b) A SISP was produced by a
consortium of Hungarian consulting firms and represents a major achievement of the project. This
accomplished plan always guided implementation, but unfortunately achieved not even nearly full
implementation due to the same political budget restrictions applied to the implementation. (c) Through a
series of study tours, the project brought management in contact with best practices elsewhere. A well
planned training program for top and middle level management was initiated in the NHIFA though not
completely implemented due to the budget restrictions. The benefits of the training were undermined by the
complete replacement of NHIFA's entire top and middle management rungs over the course of the project.
For the same reasons, the effect of the study tours for NHIFA was entirely lost. (d) Under the project a
series of actuarial and strategic studies were produced about the long-term solvency of Hungary's health
insurance. The approach to assessing and projecting health expenditures developed by these studies
remains valuable today at a time the reform of health care financing is once again being recommended by
the government.
(ii)    Operational Infrastructure Component.
(a)    NHIFA. The original project envisaged to deliver not only a complete IT infrastructure for NHIFA
headquarters and all regional offices, but also a financial MIS, and expenditure control app'ication systems
for all major areas of financing (such as hospitals, pharmaceuticals, sickness benefits in cash and in kind,
etc.). There was also a plan to develop a confirmed database of all the insured ("eligibility database"), an
area that remained politically controversial throughout the project due to the potential overlaps with the
database of taxpayers, related cross-cutting data privacy concems, and the uncertainties about the
organizational responsibility for contributions collection. Due to the factors described in more detail in
section 5, nearly none of the application systems were actually developed. Major parts of the IT
infrastructure also remained missing, such as the high speed printers, the full realization of the Wide Area
Network connecting all offices, and the Local and Metropolitan Area Networks for the offices in the
Budapest region. However, the project nevertheless achieved a thorough modernization of IT including
office technology in most of the offices, and improved local area voice and data communications facilities
as well. Virtually all the equipment and office software purchased under the project went into immediate
intensive use by the contributions collection and other legacy and ad hoc applications. When contribution
collection was moved to APEH in late 1998 and the local offices and staff of NHIFA were divided up
between APEH and NHIFA, the infrastructure acquired under PAHIP was seen as a major asset.
(b)    NPIA. The original project defined one large-scale modernization attempt, i.e., the comprehensive
automation of NPIA's records management. At the wish of the Borrower, no activities had been planned in
the other two major functional areas of pension insurance, namely, pensions calculation and pensions
payment. The project achieved what it had set out, though with a substantial delay due to the factors
described in section 5 and the complexity of preparing and executing a turnkey procurement of this size. In
fact, the contract continues to be implemented with the remaining financing by the Government, after the
decision was made to let the PAHIP loan close on December 31, 1999. At nearly US$18 million, the
- 7 -



Records Management Contract represents a significant effort, even at the scale of the country as a whole.
The work, now nearing completion, includes the systematic scanning and indexing of the existing about 90
million pages of records of individuals' service time and income data dating back to the 1 940s, and the
complete automation of the future pensions contributions recording.
(c)    New Activities Stemming from the Mid-term Review. The mid-tertn review added new PAHIP
participants which had come into existence in the wake of the pensions reform of 1997. A total of US$ 10
million equivalent were reallocated to the establishment of databases needed for the support of the 2nd
pensions pillar. Counterparts were the
the new Government Commissioner for Social Insurance database (and his organisation, the Central
Statistical Office)
and the State Private Funds Supervision, a new agency monitoring the 2nd pillar. The idea was to use
PAHIP for purposes of supervising the implementation of the pensions reform which was otherwise
supported by the Bank's US$150 million equivalent PSAL operation. However, due to the emerging
PAHIP budgeting conflict between the Government and the Health Insurance self-government, NHIFA -
which "owned" the Project's PMU - prevented access by the two new project participants to the loan funds
allocated for them. Therefore, no output at all was achieved under these new components, and the
components as well as the loan funds allocated to them had to be canceled in the second restructuring of
PAHIP in August 1999.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Subject to its successful completion, the Pensions Records Management contract will have a huge
and lasting development impact on the capability of the NPIA and on the country as a whole. Its
comprehensive and fully automated database will create confidence that complete individual pensions
contributions records (and thus documented working times of an insured) are actually and readily available
at the time of pensions deterrnination. The wealth of data becoming available on-line will also provide a
basis for the Government to consider policy changes in pension rights based on the contribution history of
individuals, and will enable accurate modeling and forecasting, avenues closed until now because of the
inaccessibility of the paper and diskette-based data.
The project is also leaving a constructive legacy in the Health Insurance Administration (and at
APEH to which nearly half of the infrastructure acquired under PAHIP has been transferred). As a
country, Hungary is in a state of advanced development where good investments are easily soaked up and
put to productive use. This would likely have happened with or without the project. However, a comparison
to NHIFA's fully or largely self-financed investments in IT infrastructure outside PAHIP, such as the
DEJAK project for contribution collection, the OVER project for pharmaceutics, the outsourced health
card issuing operation, and others, would come out very much in favor of PAHIP, and particularly the
project's institutional perspective and its IT strategy-based approach.
The institutional learning effect was dampened by the total turnover in the executive management
-8 -



of NHIFA and NPIA between the start and the closure of the project. Indeed, key counterpart positions
changed up to four times in the course of the project, while other important positions occasionally remained
unfilled over prolonged periods, to the detriment of the project. Nevertheless, lessons were clearly learned
and transferred from one generation of management to the next, and the commnon rallying point of PAHIP
helped this improvement process.
All taken together, the project is rated as having had a modest institutional development impact.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Except for changes in the government through the normal electoral process which led to changes in
the top management of the SI and stakeholder ministries, revised priorities and consequent delays, there
were no external factors affecting the implementation of the project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
(i) Self-governments for Health and for Pensions in 1993. PAHIP was impacted by several
large-scale and multiple smaller factors external to the project (but generally under government control)
that either delayed implementation or made progress difficult. The first of the major delaying factors was
the establishment of the two Self-governments for Health and for Pensions in 1993 while the loan was taken
to and passed by the Bank's Board. In retrospect, one could conclude that the project presentation should
have been delayed, but from the dynamics then present and the (retrospective) length of the required delay,
this would practically have been impossible at the time. The creation of the Self-govermments had two
implications. Firstly, a subsidiary loan agreement needed to be drawn between the Government (via
Ministry of Finance) and the two new Self-governments and accepted by the Bank, a process that required
about half a year. Secondly, the new Self-governments decided to have the information strategy redone
which had originally been drawn up by international consultants in the project preparation phase and which
had formed the major basis for the loan amount estimates. The resulting second strategy, called SISP and
developed by a Hungarian consortium of finns, required a bidding process and time to complete.
Therefore, the delaying impact of the formation of the two Self-governments on the large-scale Infornation
Systems investments component, a key factor in the project's disbursement profile, was in the order of 1.5
years.
In retrospect, the Self-governments did not only bring about an ever increasing adversarial
situation due to the national budgets having to be designed, and budget overruns covered, by the
Government, but they also brought unexpected obstacles to the project due to the governing structure of
these Self-governments. Essentially, the situation emerged that any major bid award under the loan could
not simply be cleared by the management of NHIFA, but required the approval of the Presidium of the
Self-government, and from August 1997, that of the General Assembly which, due to the length of the
decision-making chain taking occasionally half to one year, often delayed the bid awards.
(ii) Reform the country's pension system. The second major factor affecting implementation
speed was the Government's decision to reform the country's pension system with the assistance of the
Bank by introducing an obligatory, funded 2nd pillar, eventually supported by a PSAL of US$150 million
equivalent in late 1997. During the preparation of the reform and the PSAL, Bank and Government
reduced implementation support to PAHIP while the final direction of the reform and the precise contents
of the PSAL were arduously being determined over many changes and iterations. This prolonged
-9-



unfavorable implementation climate added an estimated one year overall delay to the PAHIP.
(iii) National budget measures. While the PAHIP mid-term review of June 1997 and the
conclusion of the pensions reform and PSAL reinvigorated the project by putting it on a fully re-evaluated
and pruned course together with a 1.5 years extension of the loan's closing date to December 31, 1999,
national budget measures soon constricted progress once again. Hungary had meanwhile changed to a
Treasury-based budgeting and payment system, and Bank loans became simply counted as one of several
funding sources. Agencies were no longer able to access Bank loans directly, because the access to funds
now was integrated under line items in the national budget. As it happened, the Government managed to
allocate the funds to NHIFA and NPIA for the program agreed in the mid-term review in form of a grossly
insufficient base amount, to be supplemented by the complement of the loan funds only after the
Self-govermments would have fulfilled budgetary directives for selling assets, followed by selling further
assets in amounts that would then represent additional loan drawing rights. This measure was practically
impossible to fulfill for the Self-governments in the first half of 1998, and although the General Assembly
of the Health Insurance Self-government on June 20 moved to sell assets, the decree was not implemented
due to the subsequent dissolution of the Self-governments. The new management appointed after the
election of the new Government did not complete the sale of assets either. Therefore, access to loan funds
remained restricted to the amount allocated in the national budget, which was a fraction of the
disbursements planned by the restructuring amendment. Since NHIFA owned the project's PMU which the
Loan and Project Agreements defined as the interlocutor to the Bank, NHIFA management and the General
Assembly of the Health Insurance Self-government were able to retaliate by making it impossible for the
two new beneficiaries to draw from the loan by prohibiting the provision of PMU services until the - never
achieved - settlement of the budget situation. This measure wiped out the use of another US$ 10 million of
PAHIP funds. The strangulation of loan access for NHIFA and NPIA happened not only in 1998, but
continued under the new Government in 1999. Accordingly, only a limited amount of the program agreed
in the mid-term review could actually be implemented.
The Borrower's ICR very well describes the restructuring resulting from the mid-term review, the
quickly accelerating implementation activities before and shortly after the mid-terrn review, the standstill of
implementation from about May 1998 onwards, and the very much reduced remaining implementation
speed and scope from late 1998 onwards till the closing of the loan. The Borrower's ICR also lists the
multiple other political and management factors that had a usually unhelpful impact on the implementation.
(iv) Organizational and Management Factors. The organizational and institutional
arrangements needed to introduce a compulsory funded private second tier pensions system were not
elaborated in detail until the mid-term review. It was predicted that the complexity of the needed
implementation and organizational aspects of this reform was underestimated.
The Government did not for a long time take a clear decision regarding the organizational,
institutional and management arrangements for the contributions collection system. As a compromise
solution to pacify various stakeholders, NHIFA was allowed to keep its contributions collection and new
current accounts system (DEJAK) under development, while a new organization called KATOR was
established to coordinate the data requirements of the various agencies under a new Government
Commissioner. Although the Bank remained unconvinced about the soundness of this proposed system,
support for its implementation was included under the restructured project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Until the election of the new Government in 1998 and the subsequent transfer of the contributions
- 10-



collection function to APEH, the attention of NHIFA remained preoccupied with the subject of
contributions collection. Executive management of NHIFA neither focused on the management and staff
capacilty of its IT department, nor the preparation of the application system developments and investrnents
under PAHIP. Under the new Government, the situation considerably improved, but the improvement came
too late to turn the situation around.
Per the existing agreements and government decrees, NHIFA was in charge of operating the PMU
of the project, handling the no-objection processes with the Bank and having access to the special account.
This factor enabled NHIFA to effectively block any attempts by the new project participants - representing
the pensions reform after mid-term review and restructuring of the loan - to utilize the loan funds that had
been allocated to them. At the time, NHIFA management held the view that the restructuring of the loan
had not become effective (though for the Bank, it clearly had), because the reduced allocations for PAHIP
in the national budget prevented NHIFA from implementing the revised investment program agreed in the
restructured loan.
On the other hand, NHIFA always allowed the PMU to fully support the project activities of
NPIA. While occasional NHIFA management interventions in the daily work of the PMU were not always
conducive, in general the PMU was never unduly restricted from performing its duties for both NHIFA and
NPIA. In fact, the Bank project team experienced the PAHIP PMU as a highly capable unit responsive to
the needs of the project throughout its duration.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Compared to the original PAHIP loan amount of US$132 million equivalent, actual loan use at
closure was only about US$34 million total, comprising US$17.2 million equivalent until conversion of the
loan into single currency DEM in July 1997, plus DEM30.4 million since then. The major components of
the unspent and canceled approximately US$98 million break down into (i) savings due to the drastic fall in
IT prices and the emergence of much less expensive IT architectures, in their total impact unknowable at
appraisal (about US$35 million); (ii) the reduction in the remaining IT infrastructure investment program
as a result of mid-term review and loan restructuring (about US$13 million); (iii) the project spending
constraints exercised via insufficient allocations of loan access rights in the SI budgets of 1998 and 1999
forcing the cancellation of most NHIFA investments that had been agreed in the mid-term review
restructuring (about US$25 million); (iv) the cancellation without any spending of the two new components
resulting from the mid-term review restructuring, intended to support pensions reform (US$ 10 million); (v)
expenses for completing the Pensions Records Management contract after the loan closing date, now
financed by the Government (about US$ 10 million); and (vi) the reduction of the USD equivalent loan
amount due to the rise of the value of the US dollar vis-a-vis the DEM after the loan had been converted
into single currency DEM (about US$5 million).
The final spending by category (see annex 2) shows a somewhat disproportional cost of project
management. This is explained by the fact that until the moment when the reality emerged in only about
mid 1998 that the Government through the national budget allocations effectively prevented the
implementation of the agreed infrastructure investments, project management resources were geared to the
requirements of the larger project as planned. Indeed, the spending for project management over time
showed timely adaptation to the emerging realities when the project began facing spending restrictions and
when it later was winding down.
- 11 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
There is nearly no danger for the project achievements to be unsustainable. All investments made
under the project are in heavy utilization or will be. This assessment is just as valid for the Pensions
Records Management investment at NPIA, as it is for the more basic IT infrastructure investments at
NHIA. On this basis, the project's sustainability is rated as "Likely." In the larger picture on SI policy and
govemance development, there might be some concem on the speed of reform implementation in the
pensions area (refer to the PSAL ICR), and on the Government's willingness to pull through a major reform
of the country's health financing system as has recently very much been on the agenda, but the question is
mostly the magnitude and speed of reform, and rather not its sustainability.
The project was designed and initiated at a time when it was clearly needed. This fact had a
positive influence on the direction of the reform and the institutional development. Activities not yet started
by the project, are bound to be picked up in the near to medium future. The Pensions Records Management
system, when complete, will lift the country a full rung higher in terns of improved pensions administration
and policy making capabilities.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
With the Bank's encouragement and project support, Hungary in 1998 switched to Treasury-based
budget execution. Thereby, Bank projects, including PAHIP, have naturally become much tighter
integrated than before with normal agency operations funding. As a consequence, very few if any
transitional issues needed to be addressed at the closure of the project, except the assurance -- which the
Government provided -- that the Pensions Records Management contract would be completed under
Government funding.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification and preparation of the project was satisfactory. The
project was prepared by the Bank's highly skilled technical team with experience in both the policy
development aspects of social insurance reform and practical experience in the implementation of major
organizational reforms. It was recognised that the policy framework for social insurance in Hungary was
in flux. The need for flexibility to adjust as time went along was therefore anticipated under the policy
development component of the project. In the case of the IT infrastructure developments of the project,
there was much debate during project preparation about the relative merits of a distributed versus
concentrated IT configuration. The technical team working for the Bank favored a more concentrated
approach which they felt would give policy makers and managers more overall control over the system and
avoid duplication in administrative cost. This view was not embraced as fully by policy makers and the
social insurance administration who at the time believed that central government power should be reduced
and that a distributed IT platform and administrative arrangement would prevent political backsliding into
an earlier version of social insurance.
- 12 -



7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in the implementation review of the project was satisfactory. Over the six
years of project implementation, there were more than ten supervision missions. The Bank's supervision
effort was at all times staffed with expertise in the main disciplines required by the project, from health and
social insurance policy to information technology and procurement. Bank management made additional
financial supervision resources available when needed such as for a thorough preparation and execution of
the mid-term review. Close coordination was maintained with the preparation efforts for the PSAL, and to
a somewhat lesser extent (but in line with requirements) with the parallel Health and Tax Administration
projects.
The Bank was less able to ameliorate the effects of Government-internal uncertainties with respect
to the lack of support received by the project's counterparts. Therefore, as already described, the decision
to create Self-governments, the reform efforts contemplated and adjusted during the preparation of the
PSAL, and the restrictions placed on loan access in the budgets of 1998 and 1999, each caused major
problems in PAHIP's implementation. Nevertheless, even in these situations, the Bank offered its good
services by speaking to the stakeholders or calling them together, which, in some instances, indeed resulted
in improvements.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory. While one could argue that the 13ank at critical
points could have pushed harder to ensure and/or restore smooth progress of the project implementation,
the major actual impediments were not created by the Bank. This is the main justification to rate the
Bank's performance as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in the project preparation was satisfactory. On the Borrower side, a
project management unit was set up to prepare the project with high level technical inputs. Attempts were
made to include representation and views form the line departrnents that would eventually be involved in the
reform and responsible for implementing the loan. In the case of NPIA, most of the preparatory work and
plans were developed by staff from the line departments themselves. In the case of NHIFA, much of the
technical work was outsourced to consultancy groups, and working relations with actual line departments
were much weaker. This pattem continued during implementation of the loan.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower's implementation performance was unsatisfactory. During most of the project, the
Government, represented by Ministry of Finance and to a lesser extent by Ministry of Welfare (later
Health), found itself in an adversarial position vis-a-vis the two Social Insurance Funds and NHIFA in
particular, due to the entrenched impossibility for both sides to agree on realistic revenue and expense
projections (the "structural deficit"). The operational issues emerging from this basic dichotomy were
exacerbated by the self-govemance of the two funds from 1993 to 1998, and continued to persist even after
the abolition of the self-governments. The result was not only a delayed start of the project, but a mid-term
restructuring in which, despite good preparation and the apparent consensus of all stakeholders, the actual
- 13-



implementation of the agreed revised program was soon crippled, including complete standstills lasting
months, caused by the Government's budgeting approach and the ensuing retaliation inflicted on the new
project participants by NHIFA. After the decision was made in May 1999 of having the project close
without further extension, all parties finally facilitated the remaining, very much reduced, implementation.
In May 1998, PAHIP's implementation rating was, therefore, lowered to Highly Unsatisfactory,
and this remains the rating for the Government's performance, capturing both the lack of real support by
the Government towards implementing the agreed restructured program as well as the lack of goodwill of
the implementing agency to assist the new project participants. The smooth closing stage of the project
cannot offset an implementation that remained largely incomplete compared to original as well as revised
targets.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Throughout most of the project, NHIFA did not apply the required attention to its part of the
project, though NHIFA's components represented the lion's share of the planned PAHIP investments.
Attention was instead given nearly exclusively to the area of contributions collection, the area prone to the
most intensive turf battles with the Government. Key counterpart management positions remained unfilled
over prolonged periods, or were changed too often. Therefore, NHIFA's implementation performance was
clearly unsatisfactory.
The performance of NPIA was much better. NPIA concentrated on a well defined, while major
and complex, investment, and pursued it avidly and successfully. While a positive end result continues to
require persistence and hard work, and is by no means guaranteed yet, the implementation performance of
NPIA can be praised without reservation, and was sustained even over the relatively few changes that
happened in the management of NPIA too.
The project's PMU, located in NHIFA, was well managed, competently staffed, and professionally
assisted by project management consultants and other required services. The PMU not only did its best to
guide the implementing agencies in advancing the implementation, but maintained excellent project files,
provided regular status reports and other materials needed by the Bank, facilitated the Bank's mission work,
and at all times managed to achieve the most rapid yet highest quality translations as needed at both ends.
The organization of the PAHIP PMU - as part of one of the implementing agency's line management
structure, staffed by civil servants, and assisted by best quality international and local consultants and
services- could be more deeply assessed as a candidate for best practice in Bank project implementation.
There is no question that from its capabilities the PAHIP PMU could have achieved much more than it did,
had the implementation environment been more harmonious.
The PMU's procurement staff was well trained, with good experience in WB procurement, and was
conmmitted to do a high level of work. It had also a good working relationship with the Bank's Budapest
Office. This cooperation helped to smoothen project implementation. However, the PMU did not get
proper support from the organization of the Health Insurance Fund (HIF). Every procurement decision
made by the PMU according to the needs of the project had to go through long bureaucratic procedures.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
While there were several aspects which were good to superior in the Borrower's performance, the
fact that the project achieved only a fraction of its planned infrastructure and had most of the loan funds
canceled, leads to an overall implementation rating of "Unsatisfactory," for which the main contributing
- 14-



factors are the Government's and NHIFA's implementation performance.
8. Lessons Learned
* Government commitment to the objectives of the project, irrespective of the change in ministries is
essential for the success of a project.
* A clear and well-defined organizational, legal, and institutional arrangements need to be completed
before successful introduction of private pensions system.
* For improved health insurance system, it is necessary to take a comprehensive approach which would
address policy issues to: (i) fix structural deficit in the collection of revenues; (ii) eliminate informal
charges ("gratuity" payments) that undermine policy objectives and financial protection; (iii) move
towards greater strategic purchasing of medical services and supplies from both public and private
providers; and (iv) strengthen the delivery system of private medical services.
* The Government's role should focus more on policy making and stewardship. While re-centralization
under core ministries to improve control will not necessarily improve the social insurance system or
social policy; rather it may be better to develop a strong system of public accountability in parallel to a
clear agency mandate by the SI administrations.
* The senior management of SI agencies should be depoliticized. Developing a new professional cadre of
civil servants to hold these jobs, rotate these civil servants among agencies, and comnit the
organization to improve quality in human resources and staff development would achieve an efficiently
functioning and independent organization.
The Borrower's Contribution (section 9.1 of this report) contains a detailed discussion of lessons
learned in the actual execution of the project.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Table of Contents:
1.     Borrower's Contribution
2.     Stakeholder Comments
NHIF4
NPIA
Ministry of Finance
National Bank of Hungary
9.1.    Borrower's Contribution
Introduction and Background
Purpose of this Report
It is intended that this Report and its Annexes will act as an objective and impartial record of the
- 15 -



main achievements and events which occurred during the course of the Pension Administration and Health
Insurance Project (PAHIP). The main objectives of this report are to: (a) summarise the major
achievements of the project; (b) assess these achievements in light of the project's original and updated
objectives; (c) document the lessons leamt from this project in order to assist other projects; (d) consider
the positive and negative factors which affected the project's success; and (e) comment, from the
Borrower's perspective, on the performance and input of the World Bank. The report was produced by the
PAHIP Project Management Unit (PMU) in collaboration with their management consultants,
Pricewaterhouse Coopers.
Proiect Background
Hungary has been a member of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
since 1982. Since this time the World Bank has granted loans to a wide range of projects like the
development of the oil and gas industry, the road infrastructure, restructuring of the industrial sector,
improvement of the academic education and the development of health service and the health and pension
insurance organisations. The preparations of the latter project, aimed at improving health conditions and
social welfare for the Hungarian population, were started in spring 1991 under a single project shared with
the Ministry of Welfare, having been split into parts already in the preparation phase, namely the: (a)
Health Services and Management Project (3597/-HU); and (b) Pensions Administration and Health
Insurance Project (3596-HU).
The PAHIP project came into effect on November 9, 1993, after the two Self-Governments signed
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The PAHIP project was originally intended to be a five-year project with a
scheduled end date of June 30, 1998. The original loan from the World Bank was US$132 million planned
to be supplemented with a local contribution of approximately US$70 million equivalent. The next
sub-section describes the original objectives of the project which was defined in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR). It also describes the high level benefit statements which were developed during, and expected from
the project. The level to which these objectives and benefits have been met are then assessed in the
subsequent section by the use of the references to objective (0) and benefit (B) statements below.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the PAHIP project as defined in the SAR dated March 5, 1993, were: (a) to
improve the institutional capacity of the social insurance system to manage its financial resources more
effectively, thereby contributing to its financial viability; and (b) to enhance the efficiency, targeting and
quality of client services financed through the social insurance system by modemising its administrative
infrastructure. To meet these two high level objectives the PAHIP project was initiated with two component
elements:
(a) the management development andplanning component which was intended to improve the
institutional capacity of the social insurance system to manage its financial resources more effectively by:
*   providing management support in implementing major projects needed to upgrade its administration
infrastructure (01).
* developing a detailed strategic systems plan and introducing needed organisational evaluation
capabilities of Hungarian policymakers and managers (02).
*   strengthening the policy-making, planning and evaluation capabilities of Hungarian policy makers and
managers (03).
* assisting in the assessment of future investment strategies (04).
- 16 -



(b) the operational infrastructure component which was to modernise the administrative
infrastructure of the social welfare system by:
*   developing application software (05).
*   introducing computerised data processing, modem financial management, and efficient communication
systems, as well as an upgraded office environment (06).
The planned benefits which were to be delivered as a result of utilising the loan were summarised
during the project life cycle as:
(a) improved client services through more efficient benefit payment systems and greater
responsiveness to benefit enquiries (B 1); (b) cost savings through more effective administrative methods
through the use of computerised systems (for example on-line access to an eligibility system or on-line
access to records which were previously held on paper) (B2); (c) faster and more accurate access to the
information included in the records to reduce fraud and abuse of the system (B3); and (d) improved use of
hospital facilities and a reduction in the expenditure on pharmaceutical products (B4).
In spite of many changes in senior stakeholders, two changes in Government, and many changes in
policy, these objectives have remained valid for the extended duration of the project. However, it is worth
noting that following the project's Mid Term Review in July 1997, the project was restructured. A Letter of
Agreement describing this restructuring was signed on July 31, 1997, by the Secretary of State of the
Ministry of Finance, the President of the Health Insurance Self-Government and the President of the
Pension Insurance Self-Government. In essence, this restructuring was a downsizing of the loan which was
undertaken to take account of the variance between planned and actual spend at this time, and also
determined the tasks to be completed until the closing day of the project together with the size of the
necessary loan and that of the local contribution and all these were included in an updated project plan
attached to the Letter of Agreement. The following sub-section briefly describes the main elements of the
Mid-Term Review.
The Mid-Tern Review
The World Bank undertook its Mid-Terrn Review from June 30, 1997 to July 16, 1997, during
which it was agreed that the PAHIP project would be restructured. As stated, the project retained its
original objectives but was restructured by: (a) extending the project by one and a half years to December
31, 1999; (b) cancelling US$45 million from the original loan amount of US$132 million; (c) extending the
loan to include two new beneficiaries, the Central Statistics Office (for the funding of KATOR) and the
Pension Fund Supervision of the State; and (d) an updated project plan was elaborated for the health
insurance and the pension insurance.
The restructured loan was planned to be distributed to the five beneficiaries in the following way:
(a) Health Insurance Self-Government         US$48 million
(b) Pension Insurance Self-Government        US$21 million
(c) HI and PI joint tasks                    US$ 8 million
(d) KATOR Office                             US$ 8 million
(e) Pension Fund Supervision of the State    US$ 2 million
The total available funding after restructuring was US$87 million. In practice, the extension of the
- 17-



loan to the two new beneficiaries had no material impact on the project and none of the US$10 million
allocated funds were ever spent. The next section considers the utilisation of the loan and the major
achievements of the project against the objective and benefit statements listed above.
Assessment of Project Success
Summary of Spend
*   approximately 25% of the original Bank loan has been spent (US$34.0 million of US$132.0 million).
*   counterpart funding did not reach 15% of that amount originally planned (US$9.9 million of US$70.0
million).
*   the total spend on goods procured (US$24.7 million) has been slightly more than the total spend on
services (US$19.8 million).
*   the proportion of spend on goods and services reversed in the periods after the Mid Term Review (i.e.
proportionally more was spent on goods in the latter half of the project).
*   spend has always been below plan. However, spend was doubling year on year until 1998. In 1998, it
dipped by 25% and then in 1999 by a further 30% due to the impact of the Act on the budget of the
social insurance funds.
Achievements Realised
In spite of the restriction on the loan and the counterpart funding (described later), which meant
that a lot of the tasks which were planned on the basis of the Mid-Term Review could not be undertaken,
the project still met a number of significant achievements. These achievements include:
(a) the conception and ongoing implementation of the pensions record management system which will
provide state-of-the-art access to over 90 million paper based records and 10 million records held on
microfiche. This project was the single biggest project within PAHIP and once completed will provide
NPIA with a wide range of benefits including: (i) quick evaluation of the determination application which
is achieved through the increased ability to link payments to contributions; (ii) improved efficiencies
through better working procedures; (iii) reduction in ongoing physical storage requirements and thus saving
costs and place; (iv) improved data integrity; (v) speed of retrieval; and (vi) data quality resulting in better
customer service.
(b) a range of country wide infrastructure projects providing for the physical IT infrastructure needs of
NHIFA for the coming years. These projects have delivered over 3700 voice and data endpoints, over 1900
PCs and associated software; almost 500 printers; 24 servers and Unix and RDBMS software licenses. It
is strongly believed that this level of investment should provide the basis on which to run much of NHIFA's
application systems in the future.
(c) completion of two studies which addressed planning the reform of the financing of the health system.
These studies allowed the senior management of NHIFA to make informed decisions about possible future
strategies and began to get middle managers involved and used to thinking more strategically about ways in
which the present system could be improved. The resulting reports and financial models still provide a
useful framework for strategic planning.
(d) the completion of a Strategic Systems Plan which defined in detail how information systems were going
to support the future business processes. In addition it provided guidance on standards; organisational
structures and provided over 200 courses in IS- related subjects to almost 2900 people.
- 18 -



(e)  the procurement of services to assist NHIFA consider how best to prepare for the Y2K. This work
enabled the management of the Y2K problem.
(f) completion of an outline system requirement for a newfinancial management system. It is possible that
this work can be used in future to deliver working operational information systems which will deliver hard
benefits to the Borrower.
(g) a range of training events which have increased awareness and given practical experience in a wide
range of subjects including management training; office system training; programming; network
management; operating system and RDBMS training; and training in project management
(h) over 30 study tours which have provided 168 people with exposure to methods and management
techniques from other countries.
The above paragraphs show that despite a significant under-funding, the project delivered tangible
products and benefits across all of the objectives and results achieved listed previously. Clearly the outputs
achieved did not match the original expectations but it is hoped that much of the work completed will form
a foundation to build upon in the future. In order to gain a balanced picture of the project, the next
sub-section looks at the un-met objectives.
Summary of Un-met Objectives
Given that most of the money spent on PAHIP was distributed between the procurement of services
and the implementation of IT infrastructure, the bulk of the unmet objectives relate to the lack of
implemented policy or meaningful strategic change, and the lack of application system implementations
which would have delivered operational benefits to the Borrower organisations. Although a number of
strategic studies have been carried out, which at the time proved useful, the full utilisation of these studies
anid their active use in the day-to-day management of the organisation did not happen. For example, it
would have been more beneficial to use the financial reform outputs and the outputs from the system
planning work to actively drive the organisation forward. It is hoped, however, that the work done on these
topics will form the basis for future work and that the studies will be updated and utilised as they were
originally intended.
A nunmber of application systems were planned as part of the SAR or planned as part of the
Mvid-Term Review. Many of these systems have not been implemented because: (a) funding was not
available for these projects; (b) the necessary policy decisions were not in place; and (c) the initial policy
and strategic direction changed.
In summary the following systems were planned but never implemented as part of the PAHIP
project:
*  personal ID and eligibility system - the SIM (Social Insurance Mark) system was implemented using
NHIFA's own funds - debited to the operating budget - and an outline systems concept was elaborated
for the eligibility system. A more comprehensive ID system which attempted to share common data
between different public organisations did not get implemented because of the lack of agreement over
the intent of the Data Protection Act and the lack of intent on the side of the Public Administration. No
further work was done on the eligibility system largely due to changes in senior management and
direction.
- 19 -



*   contribution collection system - enjoyed some limited funding for a limited time from the PAHIP
project. Indeed the bulk of the infrastructure was procured with this system in mind. However, the
responsibility for collecting contributions was transferred to APEH according to Government resolution
(1139/1998). (XI.6).
*   health care reimbursement system - during the PAHIP period, the system used to manage healthcare
reimbursement was the Gy6gyinfok system (funded from NHIFA's own funds) which uses a modified
version of the DRG system for reimbursing the health care providers. Although a number of projects
were initiated earlier to improve information flow and get better control of the purchaser/provider
relationship (with assistance from the PAHIP project) many of these initiatives were not continued or
not as a component of PAHIP
*  financial management system - the outline system overview and high level requirements were
developed, but due to the reformn of the public finances fundamentally impacting this area, too, phase
three that would cover the system procurement and implementation, was not launched.
Summary of Influencing Factors
This section briefly describes the factors which influenced the success of the PAHIP project. It is
presented here not as a series of excuses but more to give an insight into the lessons learned (described in
the following section) and to help other projects learn from our experiences. The main factors which
affected the project can be summarised as follows:
* Changes in political power base and policy. After the setting up of the Self-Goverments in 1993,
there has been a change in government twice, first in 1994, then in 1998. In July 1998, Act LIX was
passed which dissolved the two Self Governments (which had previously been ultimately responsible
for Social Insurance funds) and gave responsibility over the social insurance areas to the Political
Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office who was replaced by the of State Secretary
Overlooking the Social Insurance Funds on behalf of the Ministry of Finance. Associated with these
changes in Government and individuals came changes in policy. One of the more important changes
was seen when the Government passed a resolution (1139/1998). (XI.6) which set in train the transfer
of contribution collection from NHIFA to the State Tax Authority (APEH) from January 1, 1999. As
a result of this change, in the future NHIFA should concentrate on the branch specific tasks of health
insurance, but it also meant that the PAHIP project's direction had to be re-worked in the light of this
significant change in policy. It is clear from this brief account of high level changes that the PAHIP
had to work in a highly volatile and dynamic environment which impeded its ability to maintain
progress.
*   Rapid and constant change in senior stakeholders. Whilst the NPIA has enjoyed a more stable senior
management team, NHIFA has experienced significant change: (a) six different Director Generals have
been in charge of NHIFA from the commencement to the end of the project; (b) much of the associated
management team was removed whenever a new Director General was appointed, and (c) senior
positions such as the Director of IT were not filled for significant periods.
Although the core PMU team remained constant the NHIFA leadership team which it served changed
frequently. These changes restricted the pace at which the PMU could proceed as relationships had to
be rebuilt and the organisation's strategic direction was often re-evaluated when new Director Generals
were appointed.
*   Restriction offunding available to the project. A policy to restrict access to World Bank funds came
into being just after the Mid- Term Review. This policy probably had the biggest single affect on the
- 20 -



project because although in theory NHIFA had access to US$48 million in practice this amount has
never been available. This effectively "strangled" the project and made it very difficult for the project
to achieve all of its stated goals. The 1999 budget, for example, was capped at 2bn HUF for NHIFA
and for NPIA (equivalent to US$8.9 million each). The available resulting funds for the PAHIP project
became steadily worse towards its end. In summary one can see that: (a) the total loan available in
1998 was US$6.3 million; (b) the total loan available in 1999 was US$3.1 million; (c) all the local
contributions in 1998 had been spent by May (restricting progress); and (d) debt was brought forward
into 1999 from 1998 (thus further compounding the problem).
The debt brought forward into 1999 accounted for approximately half of the total budget available
leaving NHIFA with just US$3.1 million to spend on projects in 1999. NPIA were in a slightly better
position with access to US$5.8 million. However it is clear that without these financial limitations the
project would have achieved more of its strategic objectives. For example, the project spend was
doubling year-on-year until the restriction was imposed. If this rate of spend continued to double then
the total project spend (from Bank funds) would be in the region of US$75 million. With this level of
spend additional work could have been undertaken thus delivering associated realisable benefits.
Lessons Learned
A number of lessons have been leamed from the PAHIP project which the Borrower would like to
share with other interested parties. These lessons are as follows:
*  Do not lose sight of what you are trying to achieve. It is vital that everybody connected to the project
understands what it is trying to be achieved and understands what the "big picture" looks like. It is also
important that appropriate methods and standards are used to assist the project deliver the "big
picture". We found that it is very easy for less experienced people to become "bogged down" in such
detail - this must be avoided at all costs. For example, we have noticed that unless properly managed,
methods and standard can become the main focus of the project rather than its ultimate goal. This
wastes time and may lead to friction within the project team. It is recommended that the "big picture" is
made visible throughout the whole project and that strong leadership from the Steering Committee and
PMU need to be exhibited to ensure that the project does not lose sight of its overall objectives whilst it
assesses relatively unimportant detail.
*   Build a strong and stable PMU. The Borrower has been keen to ensure that the core of the PMU
management; staff; and consultants have been as constant as practicable throughout the whole project.
Thus the core PAHIP PMU staff have, with one or two small exceptions, remained in place throughout
the whole of the project. This proved very valuable as it gave the project consistency of purpose in
spite of changes being made in Government and senior management positions. It is also considered that
having a stable PMU allowed for a more meaningful and trusting relationship to be built up between
the Bank and the Borrower as there was a body of experience to support the fact that things would be
done in an appropriate way by people with the appropriate skills. In addition it also proved very useful
to make sure that although the PMU had some reporting links into the Borrower organisation that the
whole of the PMU acted more as a true project team and could therefore "cut-through" the traditional
line reporting which can often constrain projects of this nature.
*  Build a project Steering Committee. The PMU needs to have strong management support from within
the Borrower organisation that can make strategic decisions and make commitments to ensure that the
project is being driven forward. The PAHIP project has experienced times when a Steering Committee
was in place and when it was not. Based on our experience it is strongly recommended that a small
- 21 -



(8-10 person) Steering Committee is set up to give strategic direction and input. The members of the
Committee should come from the parts of the organisation which are most involved with the
disbursement of the loan and if possible should include representation from senior stakeholders who are
capable of committing resources. The roles and responsibilities of the various committees and
committee members should be outlined and agreed in the Project Initiation Document (PID) and any
project management training necessary to get the basic project management concepts agreed should be
undertaken at the outset of the project.
*  Encourage users to specify their requirements. It is important that the roles of the users and the roles
of the PMU staff are defined and agreed as part of producing the PID. The PAHIP project found that
for most projects undertaken that it was best to work in very close co-operation with the user
departments and to have them define their requirements through elaborating ToRs and technical
specifications, whilst the PMU staff ensured that the procurement process was being managed in a
transparent and controlled manner. It was also found that requirements wherever possible should be
expressed in terns of drafting a need rather than defining a solution. The temptation to define the
solution should be avoided as this is the responsibility of the potential suppliers and potentially leads to
either bias being introduced or innovative solutions being ruled out. Of course this approach requires
that the evaluation model is robust enough to deal with this flexibility and that the bidding documents
request sufficiently detailed information to allow the most appropriate bid to be correctly judged.
3   Flex PMU staffing to take account of changes in workload. Despite the need to try and keep the core
team of the PMU constant it is recognised that change is inevitable and should be actively managed.
From the PAHIP project's perspective it was clear that, due to restrictions in funding, the ongoing work
would not reach the levels which were planned during the Mid-Term Review. Thus in close
consultation with their management consultants the head of the PMU reduced the workload of the
consultants in line with the newly planned work. In addition to reducing the actual mandays input it
was agreed that the skill mix should also be changed with more emphasis being placed on local staff.
Both of these measures reduced costs whilst maintaining a high quality of independent advice. It is
recommended that other PMU seek this more flexible approach with their consultants rather than being
tied into long term fixed contracts which do not benefit either party.
-   Focus on financial management and reporting. The business of managing the financial elements of
the project and for producing management information relating to the project proved no simple matter.
The PAHIP project operated with three main currencies (USD; Forint; DM) and we had to make sure
that all financial transactions were consistent with each individual contract. We also needed to ensure
that local contributions were being recorded appropriately and that any necessary management
infonnation could be produced as and when required. The PAHIP project found that this task was not
simple and that it required expertise; dedicated resource; and conviction of purpose to ensure that these
matters could be managed successfully. It is suggested that other projects ensure that they have the
appropriate financial management resources and if additional resources and/or training is required then
a strong case should be made to gain these at the earliest opportunity.
*   Utilise external information and expertise. It is essential to have a good source of reliable information
and advice available to the project. For the PAHIP project it was important to have ready access to
information on trends and predictions in the computer market; information on specific technologies; and
information about practices in other countries. Some of this information and advice comes as part of
buying a good management consultancy firm and it is recommended that any potential firm's
Knowledge Management capabilities are checked to the full - preferably from an independent source
such as the Gartner Group. In addition, one-off pieces of work or advice may need to be procured from
- 22 -



time to time to ensure the project runs smoothly. It is recommended that an annual budget is created
for this type of one-off requirement and, subject to the consent of the Steering Committee, the funds
should be readily made available to the project.
Suggestions for the World Bank
During the lifetime of the PAHIP project a close working relationship was built up between the
Bank and the Borrower. On the whole the Borrower's experience with the Bank has been very good.
However, as in any project of this kind, there are things which might have been done in a different way to
improve the relationship and outcome. Therefore as requested by the Bank, the Borrower has considered
their experiences in connection with the Bank and has produced a set of suggestion which the Bank might
like to adopt for projects which it undertakes in the future. It is important to note that the comments made
within this report are not attributable to any one individual but are more a reflection of the Bank's overall
performance. The suggestions are as follows:
*  Lend in smaller amounts. The PAHIP project originally borrowed $132m from the World Bank in
order to help it fulfill the objectives listed previously. By any measure the project can only be, and can
only have been, described as large; complex; and potentially high risk. The SAR very briefly alluded to
the potential risks from: (a) weak institutional capacity for implementing reform; (b) ongoing and
broader reform of the social insurance system; and (c) volatility in political commitment.
To counter these risks it was suggested that a full strategic systems plan be developed and that study tours
and fellowships should be arranged. No real mention was made of how the bigger political position could
or should be managed and detailed or tangible assessment was made about how risky the project was likely
to be. Thus the US$132 million was committed, the initial risks proved well founded, and much of the
money was never spent. It is suggested that the Bank in very close co-operation with the Borrower
undertakes a full risk assessment and for each risk identify specific actions which need to be taken to
mitigate and manage these risks. It is also suggested that based on this risk assessment that a risk
classification is agreed for the whole project. Depending on the risk classification it should be possible to
structure the whole loan according to risk. Therefore on high risk projects it should be possible to agree an
overall loan amount but be able to draw-down smaller amounts and thus reduce commitment and interest
fees.
* Encourage smaller numbers of larger projects. As mentioned previously the PAHIP project was
complex and high risk. It contained a number of strategic elements in addition to the delivery of IT
infrastructure and applications systems to support strategy. Many of the procurements (other than the
pensions records project) were perceived as a large number of separate projects which had to be bid
for; won; and integrated into the bigger picture. It is suggested that the Bank, in its SAR, puts more
emphasis on the Borrower buying whole solutions from single suppliers or consortia and allowing the
suppliers to manage the interconnectivity and interdependencies, thus easing the burden on the
Borrower and its PMU.
* Improve visibility of your resource allocation system. It is understood that the Bank uses a budgeting
system for allocating resources to projects. It is also understood that the Bank's staff have multiple
projects to manage and that different projects have to compete for the time of the Bank's staff. Annex 8
shows that the Bank has visited the PAHIP project over 20 times since the preparation mission back in
May 1991. In general these visits have proved to be very useful and the Borrower has welcomed these
inputs. On a number of occasions, especially for the shorter visits which sometimes only lasted 1-2
days, paid en-route to somewhere else, several significant problems were successfully fought. The
- 23 -



Borrower never really knew how many days of consultative visits were budgeted for its project as a
whole and therefore had very little say in when and how these days should be used. It is suggested that
the Bank agrees a budget for "consultative visit days", reviews this with the Borrower at the outset of
the project and then reviews this budget throughout the life of the project The Borrower and the Bank
could then make mutually agreeable and sensible plans about the number of visits, for how long they
should last, and the type of assistance which would be required. In this way the Borrower has more
input into how the project is managed; the number of mandays available; and an idea of the types of
expertise required and available.
* Introduce Service level agreements. The Bank has provided the Borrower with a range of personnel
who have provided a range of inputs throughout the duration of the project. These inputs included: (a)
strategic reviews and discussions with policy makers and senior stakeholders; (b) consultative visits to
discuss specific projects and technologies; (c) reviews of technical and bidding documents; (d) granting
of "no-objections"; and (e) informal advice.
The range of inputs has been welcomed and much needed on this project. However, on some occasions the
Borrower has had to wait for a longer period than it would have wanted for a response from the Bank -
perhaps due to conflicting demands on the Bank's resources. To improve the Bank's service and to assist it
to manage its customer relations it is suggested that some Service Level Agreements (SLAs) are agreed
between the Bank and the Borrower. The SLAs would define the types of Bank expertise available to the
Borrower and also define response times for document reviews and no-objections. Even if this latter
requirement was done on a case-by-case basis it would give the Borrower a better sense of consistent
service and avoid mismatches of understandings or perceptions.
* Improve information flow and information systems. From the experience gained on the PAHIP
project, it is recognised that the process of managing the project is complex. For example there are
complex financial transactions which involve multiple currencies; there are complex procedures
surrounding the granting of "no objections"; there are document review procedures; project tracking
requirements; Bank to Borrower communications and so on. At present much of this process is
managed on an ad hoc basis using phone, fax, and e-mail. It is considered that there would be
significant benefit in having a standard information system which all Borrowers had access to. This
system would provide the Borrower with a window into their project and allow them to: (a) request and
track "no objections"; (b) record financial transactions; (c) store significant project documents for
future reference; (d) retain Bank/Borrower communications in context to specific projects; (e) review
World Bank standards and guidelines; and (f) look at best practice and lessons learnt from other
projects.
The system would effectively be an operational management system and also a repository of best practice
information. It should be accessible via local servers using a common and universally available front end.
By introducing such a system it is strongly believed that the PMU and the Bank administration costs
associated with managing projects could be significantly reduced.
* Reduce bureaucracy. The Bank is perceived to be slightly too bureaucratic and too rigid in applying
its somewhat restrictive rules. For example, the Borrower had engaged a company and their
sub-contractor to provide consultancy services and wanted to engage them again to complete the second
stage of work. Due to the Bank's internal limits, it was necessary for the Borrower to develop and
subsequently manage two supplier contracts rather than having a single contract in which the lead
supplier managed the relationship with its sub-contractor. The amounts of money involved was small
but the amount of additional complexity generated by this "work around" was significant for the
-24 -



Borrower. Another example of Bank bureaucracy relates to the ICR. The Bank stated to the
Borrower that the report must be no more than 10 pages long and that if it is longer than this a
summnary must be written. It is very difficult to write about a 6-year project in 10 pages and provided
the Borrower does not write hundreds of pages it is difficult to see the rationale behind such a stringent
rule. Hence in this report, we have attempted to be brief and to the point, it took us serious and most
probably useless enforcement to remain within the 10-page limit. It is suggested that the Bank reviews
its procedures and rules with a range of experienced Borrowers and attempts to remove non-value
added steps and allows itself to be more flexible, provided that overall risk is being managed and the
project is working to achieve its agreed objectives.
* Ensure consistency between SAR and ICR. Having recently completed the various tables requested by
the Bank as part of the Implementation Completion Report, it is suggested that the Bank's Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) expresses the project's planned expenditure in the same terms as those
required to be used in the ICR. For example, in the World Bank's Guidelines for the ICR the Borrower
is asked to produce tables which show actual spend against planned spend under a number of headings
including project component (goods, services etc.); method of procurement (International Competitive
Bid, International Shopping etc.); project component (programme management, applications software
etc.) and so on. The planned figures, against which variance is measured, should have been in the
SAR. However, the budgets in the SAR are not expressed using all of these terms so the Borrower has
to derive these necessary budget figures as best they can. It is suggested that the Bank defines a
standard reporting package for all projects. The baseline figures and the reporting procedures and
format should be defined in the SAR and this should be used to drive all missions and reviews of
progress. In this way the Borrower has the baseline agreed and becomes familiar with the need to
collect and present information in a single and consistent format from the outset of the project.
Please note that the Borrower would welcome further discussions on these topics if the Bank would find this
useful.
In Summary
It is hoped that this report will provide an objective assessment of the PAHIP project and allow
those coming in our footsteps to benefit from our achievements and experiences.
9.2.   Stakeholders Comments
National Health Insurance Fund Administration
During the period from 1993 to 1999 the National Health Insurance Fund Administration
implemented a project financed from World Bank loan, aimed at the strengthening of the institutional
system. The project significantly contributed to the establishment of both the hardware and software
bases of the health insurer. In the frames of investments computers were procured, local area networks,
ancd county computer centres were constructed and also office software was procured. These
investments ensured the IT background for the operation of the institutional system and contributed to
the seamless turn of year 2000.
Regretfully, the software and plans specifically designed to support the health insurance activity
were either not implemented or not used. Examples are the contribution recording system (DEJAK) and the
study elaborated for the restructuring and financial analysis of the health care financing system. In the
- 25 -



frames of the project only the first phase of the Financial Management System (FMS) was implemented,
thus the Management Information System was not finalised. Other pending issues are the prescription
checking system, the reform of the cash benefit system and the application software supporting the
curative-preventive care.
The clarification of the reasons behind these failures would take a long time, however, in summary,
it would be stated that although the project was closed, there is still room for developments in the field of
software systems supporting the activity of our institute. They could be implemented with significant
budgetary support after the clarification of the long term tasks of the health insurer.
National Pensions Insurance Administration
NPIA will capture the approximately 90 million documents in its possession in digital form and
will develop an application software for the use of the images. The World Bank's contribution to the
project was significant in terms of financing and personal effort, too.
We do believe that the implementation of the project will be a remarkable step forward in the
areas of the pension records management and pension determination. The staff of the World Bank
assisted us in achieving these results and supported our work all along the project period. We hope that
the cooperation with the World Bank staff was finished to the mutual satisfaction of the parties.
Ministry of Finance
The quick and efficient achievement of the goals set for PAHIP in the Loan Agreement made
between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the World Bank was aggravated by the
changes in the control and the structure of social insurance seen in the 90s. The Agreement was
amended three times always with reference to the higher quality standard and long term professional and
technical demands.
During the project period the institutional system of social insurance went through fundamental
changes that laid heavy burdens on the management and the administrative capacity and also on the
adaptability of the institutional system. Due to the impact of the influencing factors and the rigidity of
the institutional system, the implementation of the goals was left behind schedule, specifically in the
health insurance branch. Meanwhile, in the pension insurance branch certain long term administration
re-engineering works of fundamental importance have been started, like for instance the establishment of
the pension records system that will be finished in 2001 without World Bank participation.
Although the state-of-the-art social insurance administration and records system of the two
branches based on unified technological basis and IT strategy plan, was not implemented in line with the
provisions of the Loan Agreement, we believe that it contributed to the improvement of the institutional
capacity of social insurance. An IT structure has been established that enabled the development of
certain application systems.
National Bank of Hungary (NBH)
(a) Implementation: During the implementation of the project major changes occurred in Hungarian public
finance and in the governmental policy regarding the role, tasks and organisation of the Social Insurance.
The public finance reform (Treasury system) and the pension system's reform (with World Bank assistance,
PSAL) have taken place and the legislative and regulatory framework of the Health Insurance Fund and
- 26 -



Pension Insurance Fund have been modified. These changes slowed down the implementation of the project
and affected adversely the utilisation of the loan proceeds.
In spite of the mutual efforts of the World Bank and the Hungarian counterparts in 1997 to restructure the
project in order to support the evolving reforms in Hungary, while at the same time remaining consistent
with the original project objectives, the Borrower requested the Bank to cancel more than US$96 million
equivalent from the loan funds (in 1997 and two times in 1999) and to extend the closing date by 18
months.
(b) Relationship with the Bank: The relationship and cooperation between the Bank and the Hungarian
counterparts during the identification, preparation, appraisal, implementation and restructuring of the
project was very good. The flexible attitude of the World Bank staff largely contributed to solve the
problems emerging during the project implementation. The continuity in staff of the World Bank (the same
persons as task manager and later as adviser) and the Hungarian PMU (head of PMU) from the beginning
to the end was very important and helped overcome several problems.
(c) 4ssessment of Outcome and Lessons Learned: In spite of the above mentioned facts, the project had
improved and strengthened the institutional and IT capacity of the Social Insurance Administration system,
helped to build up the Pensions Records system, and besides the disbursed loan amount the Hungarian
beneficiary institutions received valuable assistance from the Bank experts. The PAHIP operation is the
very example that in a complex and changing environment clear project design and focused implementation
are paramount.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
- 27 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:                                                                            _
L indIcatorMatx                   Projected jin last PSR               Actual/Latest Estlmpto
Performance Indicators were not mentioned
in the SAR
Output Indicators:
inndlcoMatrix                      Projected In last PSR               Act/Laet EstImate
End of project
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
roject Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Ap._Isal      ActualLatest   Percentage of
Estimate       Esffmate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              IJ$$ million   US$ million
Project Management Team                                4.30            10.60         246.5
System Planning and Organization                      11.90             5.90         49.58
Planning Development                                   5.90             2.20         37.28
Preinvestment Study                                    2.00             0.00             0
Application Software                                  23.90             1.00          4.18
Technological Infrastructure                         110.10            23.50         21.34
Total Baseline Cost                                  158.10            43.20
Physical Contingencies                               13.50
Price Contingencies                                  29.80
Total Project Costs              201.40
Total Financing Required              201.40            43.20
.roject Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent) 
Expelit  Categorj                   Procurement Mtiod           N.B.F.      Total Cost
NC B        Other     __  _  _  _   _ _  _  _ _
1. Works                     0.00         1.90         0.00         0.00          1.90
(0.00)       (1.90)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (1.90)
2. Goods                    74.00         0.00         9.40          9.10         92.50
(74.00)       (0.00)      (940)         (9.10)       (92.50)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         48.60        0.00         48.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (48.60)      (0.00)       (48.60)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         58.20         58.20
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (58.20)      (58.20)
Total                     74.00         1.90        58.00        67.30        201.20
(74.00)       (1.90)      (58.00)      (67.30)      (201.20)
- 29 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
;:i!  Ca^tegoty   (locOm"Wri  Othod $07    NN.B.F.                        Total Cost
~~ cat.goi~~~~,   1GB ~NCB                     Othe&                          .0
1. Works                         0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                        17.56           0.00           0.70           5.54          23.80
(17.56)        (0.00)         (0.70)         (5.54)        (23.80)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00          15.28          4.09           19.37
(0.00)         (0.00)        (15.28)        (4.09)         (19.37)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           4.40           4.40
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (4.40)          (4.40)
Total                        17.56           0.00          15.98          14.03          47.57
(17.56)        (0.00)        (15.98)        (14.03)         (47.57)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2z Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Perce t oage f Aopraisal
Project Management Team    4.26     0.91      0.00      8.50       2.09      0.00    199.5  229.7   0.0
System Planning and      10.94      3.42      0.00      4.42       1.45      0.00     40.4   42.4   0.0
Organization
Planning Development     6.34       0.80      0.00      1.76       0.42      0.00     27.8   52.5   0.0
Preinvestment Study      2.42       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
Application Software     24.52      4.65      0.00      0.81       0.23      0.00     3.3    4.9    0.0
Technological            83.56     59.43      0.00      18.06      5.44      0.00     21.6   9.2    0.0
Infrastructure
Total Spend: Spend does not include any PMU running costs and salaries
Government: Non-Bank financed elements were financed not by the government but by the independent
social insurance funds.
- 30 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation       Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                         Progress           Objective
Identification/Preparation
January/91                     5    Health Economist, 4 SI
Specialists
May/91                         3   Health Economist, Operations
Officer, Sector Division Chief
October191                    10   Health Economist, Operations
Officer, IT Specialist, Health
Sector Specialist, 6 SI
Specialists
April/92                       5    Health Economist, Operations
Officer, Procurement Officer, SI
Specialists, Sector Division
Chief
Appraisal/Negotiation
June-July/92                   5    Health Specialist,
Implementation Specialist,
IT Specialist, Operations
Officer, Health Financing
Specialist
Supervision
July/93                         7  Health Specialist,                     S                 HS
Implementation Specialist,
IT Specialist, Operations
Officer, Legal Counsel,
Clinical Computing
Specialist, Health Insurance
Specialist
April/94                        5   Public Health Specialist,             S                  S
Implementation Specialist,
Health Economist, Economist,
Institutional Care & Policy
Management
July/94                         6  Health Economist,                      S                  S
Implementation Specialist, IT
Specialist, Operations Officer,
Corporate Management
Specialist, Health Insurance
Specialist
October 94                      4   Health Economist,                     S                  S
Implementation Specialist,
Institutional Care and Training
Specialist, Public Health
Specialist
- 32 -



May 95                          5   Health Economist, Procurement         U                  S
Specialist, Research Assistant,
Visiting Scholar
May/96                          5   Health Economist, 2 IT
Specialists, Country Economist,
Procurement Specialist,
January 97                      3  2 Health Economists,                   U                  S
Procurement Specialist
April/97                        3   Health Economist, IT
Specialist, Procurement
Specialist,
July 97                         7  Health Economist, IT Specialist,       U                  S
Country Economist, Country
Officer, Legal Counsel, Resident
Representative, Procurement
Specialist,
October 97                      2   IT Specialist, Procurement            U                  S
Specialist
February/98                     2   IT Specialist, Procurement
Specialist
May/98                          2   IT Specialist, Procurement           HiU                 S
Specialist, Health Specialist
June/99                         1  IT Specialist                          U                  U
October/99                      I  IT Specialist
March 2000                      4   IT Specialist, Procurement
Specialist, Health Economist,
Operations Adviser
ICR
March 2000                     4   IT Specialist, Procurement
Specialist, Health
Economist, Operations
Adviser
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
__________   _  _______ ____   No. Staff weeks                US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                   3                           3.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                       64                         82.00
Supervision                                376                        580.00
ICR                                         11                         45.00
_Total                                     454                        710.40
- 33 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
J Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
0 Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                OH OSUOM ON ONA
Z Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
? Institutional Development               0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
M Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Gender                           O H OSUOM O N O NA
F Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
 Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
 Public sector management                0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
M Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 34 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
X Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
[ Supervision                                         OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS OU O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
Z Preparation                                         OHS OS  O  U  O HU
 Giovernment implementation performance              O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS  *  U  O HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS * U O HU
- 35 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide Memoires and Back-to-Office Reports
2. Consultant Reports
3. Consultant Studies included in the Project
4. Borrower's Evaluation Report (section 9), including the following:
(a) chronology of events influencing the project implementation
(b) List of training courses organized under the project
(c) List of all PAHIP projects and related status
(d) List of study tours organized under the project
(e) Table of infrastructure study by county
5. Staff Appraisal Report
- 36 -



MAP SECTION






16                                                                                                                                                      20,                                                  ,                       22     !                         IBRD 260/
HUNGARY U
MOTORWAYS                  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                -1-                                                                    UKRAINE
MAIN ROADS                                3 COUNTY IMEGYEi CAPITALSG                                         S L OAVA  K  R  E  Py .   /    ZM   ENaI_-Gd*
RAILROADS                   0    OTHER M AJOR CITIES                                                  .                                                                     < -
|   CANALS        -      - COUNTY (MEGYEj BO UNDAR ES                                                                                                                            s TV_.\
INTERNATIONAL BOUND,  .   . ......  f ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8,pdss.spl
T.I-                     IHovs(
zEq.,      MOE                                                                                    585A30
g e i *osonnm ~~~rovor t W i i;; ' < Eger(  r                                             ,c>'Ko.8,,,                                              1                                          SSAOCMC4mtx;,99\;
AUST .IA V.0585 SZAT
k.=;thA USTIA
o 1           20 20 30 40   60    s    70 T0 BOK I8OMETERS            _     ,/t csel                           \            FED. REP. OF  YUGOSLAVIA                                                                                                                    m,,>p N<ALY '' v   LU c5,ET  T
I                                                                      05,8E Seri/ otngo 
0      10      20      30      40      50 MILES                           1608  0                                                                                                                                                        1                        M O g.RECEe.->.. .iT5ESE
|  RO  TA d 30  r- I , t ,  8;                                                                                20
_                                          <                / l                                                                                                                      1.c9  ;  '               NOVEMEER 1997



