Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Report No: AC434
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/23/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: CHINA                                 Project ID: P077137
Project: Fourth Inland Waterways Project      Task Team Leader: Graham Smith
Authorized to Appraise Date: August 19, 2003  IBRD Amount (Sm): 91.00
Bank Approval: March 25, 2004                  IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: EASTR                           Sector: Ports, waterways and shipping (58%);
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Renewable energy (42%)
Status: Lending                                Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector
development (P); Water resource management (P);
Rural services and infrastructure (S); Public
expenditure, financial management and procurement
(S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The Project's main objective is to improve access for poor regions of southern China by
upgrading navigation conditions on the region's major east-west river and other waterways
feeding traffic into the Pearl River Delta region. A secondary objective is to harness water flow in
two of these rivers to generate environmentally clean electricity to help meet growing energy
demand in the provinces of Guangdong and Guangxi.
I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
A.    Guangdong: to improve navigation conditions and generate electricity through civil
works and associated investments on three waterways:
1) Construction of the Xiniu Navigation Complex (a low dam to regulate river depth,
including a ship lock to assure 2.5m draft and power plant of 6.4 MW capacity) and
minor channel improvements on about 13 km of the Lian River, a tributary of the North
River (below);
2) Purchase of turbines and other equipment for the above powerhouse, and of lock gates;
3) Construction of two substations to link the Complex to the power grid serving the city of
Yingde.
4) Resettlement of about 500 farmers living in the intended Xiniu reservoir zone;
5) Channel improvements on the middle reaches of the North River (Bei Jiang) between
Shaoguan and Qingyuan (about 180 km) to allow vessels of up to 300 tons to ply safely
year-round;
6) Channel improvements and regulation works on the Laolonghu Waterway (about 16 kim),
an east-west waterway in the Pearl River Delta network serving mainly traffic between the
rural south of Guangdong and the provincial capital, Guangzhou, to allow vessels of up to
1,000 tons to operate safely year-round; and
7) Replacement of 2 bridges over the Laolonghu Waterway, which are too low for the
intended larger ships.



2
ISDS
B.    Guangxi: to allow navigation by vessels of up to 500 tons on the Right River (You Jiang)
between the cities of Baise and Nanning (357 km) and generate electricity, through civil works
and associated investments.
1) Construction of the Naji Navigation Complex, a 20m-high dam to regulate river depth,
including a ship lock to assure 2.5m draft and a power plant of 57 MW capacity, about 38
km downstream from Baise;
2) Purchase of turbines and other equipment for the above powerhouse, and of lock gates;
3) Construction of access roads (about 9 km) to the dam on both banks and a bridge over the
river;
4) Construction of two substations to link the dam to the Baise power grid;
5) Construction of dikes and dredging of shoals between Baise and Nanning;
6) Upgrading of navigational aids; and,
7) Resettlement of about 320 residents (farmers and others) living in the intended reservoir
zone and along the alignment of the approach roads.
C.    Institutional strengthening and technical assistance (TA). To strengthen the technical
and management skills of personnel of the two project offices, consulting services and study tours
will be provided. Topics are likely to include: (i) integrated water basin management, (ii) flood
and drought forecasting, (iii) training of shiplock operators, (iv) waterway user charge and cost
recovery policies, (v) policies and principles for vessel and operator licensing, (vi) implementation
of computer-based information systems to systematize the licensing process, and (vii)
implementation of Internet-based systems to give waterway users information on river flow, tide
and draft conditions in real time. If motivated counterparts can be identified, the issue of
facilitating transport documentation for containerized cargo (through bills of lading, Customs
clearance inland, etc.) could also be included.
Components:
Guangdong Xiniu Dam (Navigation Complex)
Guangdong regulation of North River Middle Reaches
Guangdong improvement of Laolonghu Waterway
Guangdong study tours & technical assistance
Guangxi Naji Dam (Navigation Complex)
Guangxi Right River (You Jiang) training works
Guangxi study tours & technical assistance
Price & physical contingencies (12%)
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
This project comprises (1) Naji Navigation Complex is located in the northwestern part of Guangxi
Autonomous Region, 316 km upstream of the Yujiang River from Nanning City and 41 km downstream
from Baise downtown. This inland waterway connects poor western areas, Yunnan Province and Guizhou
Province to Guangzhou, Hong Kong and Macao. (2) Xiniu Navigation Complex is located in the Lianjiang
River, which is a tributary of the Beijiang River in the northern part of Guangdong Province. Xiniu is a



3
ISDS
bottleneck between the poor mountain region and the Beijiang River waterway. (3) Beijiang Regulation
component covers the middle reach of the Beijiang River along 184 km. (4) Laolonghu Regulation
component is a 16 km shortcut channel between two major waterways, shortening the navigation distance
by 40 km between southwestem Guangdong and Pearl River Delta.
B. Check Environmental Classification: A (Full Assessment)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (front PDS)
(click on I for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
Policy                                  Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)        * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                 0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               * Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                           S Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*     0 Yes * No
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Pleasefill in all relevant questions. If infbrmation is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
I1.D. 1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
OP 4.01 Environment Assessment
The proposed project is category A. Environmental Assessment Reports and Environmental Action Plans
have been prepared by independent consultants under contract to the provincial Dept. of Communications
(Waterway Bureau). A proposed combination of conventional mitigation measures and good supervision
will serve to minimize environmental impacts appropriately. The long-term residual impact of interference
by dams to migratory fish and other aquatic organisms will be addressed by extensive fish hatchery
activities in the new reservoirs, as well as efforts towards improving aquatic biodiversity.
OP.4.27 Safety of Dams
The proposed Naji Navigation Complex includes construction of a 20m high dam, which triggered this
policy. Dam Safety Panel was established and several meetings have already convened.
OP.4.04 Natural Habitat
This policy does not apply. The draft EIAs identified no environmentally protected areas or critical natural
habitats within the project area. 'I'he Naji and Xiniu navigation complexes will inundate upstream by 343
ha and 95 ha respectively. For the Xinui Reservoir, about 50% of the land is currently forested; the
remainder, a mixture 6f undeveloped lands and some agricultural areas. For the Naji Reservoir, most of



4
ISDS
the proposed inundated area is within the natural annual flood zone and is used for grazing lands and
seasonal gardens.
OPN 11.3 Cultural Property
Archeological authorities conducted investigation through document survey and site inspection. At Naji
sub-component, Poluo Relics, a pre-historic ruin, was identified within the inundated area. According to
national regulation, 1000 m2 of ruins will be excavated to preserve relics.
OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement
The project will require land acquisition and relocation of some households. The project offices have
engaged experienced consultants to carry out the resettlement planning. The planning activities include
socioeconomic surveys, detailed inventory of impacts, census of the affected population, and consultations
with each affected farmer group to design their rehabilitation measures. Resettlement Action Plans have
been prepared on the basis of these field work in line with relevant Chinese laws, regulations and the World
Bank Policy.
OD 4.20 Indiginous People
Guangxi Component will impact a large population of Zhuang ethnicity. An expert institute was engaged
to carry out further field and analytical work on the affected Zhuang population for compliance with World
Bank Operation Directive 4.20 on Indigenous People. This assessment indicated a high level of integration
of the Zhuang ethnic group into the Han population in a process of several hundred years and this is
reflected in all aspects of their social, political, economic and cultural life. The social assessment
concludes that the Zhuang population affected under the project does not fall under the Bank's definition of
indigenous people and therefore the policy would not apply to this project.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
None.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
The overall objective of IWW4 is to improve waterway navigation between economically developed areas
in the Pearl River delta with poorer rural areas to the economic benefit of the latter. Long-term cumulative
impacts will include a shift to larger, more modem vessels with better pollution control, in spite of
increased freight tonnage. Long-term indirect impacts will result in more commercial, resource recovery
and industrial activities within the project areas of influence. Experience gained by regulatory agencies
with this project will assist in the environmental management of future indirect projects.
In general the project is expected to have positive impacts for development of mining and refining industries
in the westem mountain areas. Appropriate enforcement of environmental regulations by relevant
authorities will become more important.
Transportation by water has fewerenvironmental impacts than other modes of transportation. Economic
incentives will make shifts of heavy or bulk cargoes from railways and perhaps from roads to inland
waterways, which will decrease environmental loads as well.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)



5
ISDS
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The Project Administration Offices have well-established environmental and resettlement offices, with
trained and experienced staff, to oversee implementation of the EAPs and RAPs. A carefully designed
monitoring and organizational system has been established, both within the Project Organization, as well as
with appropriate regulatory agencies at different levels of governments. Both provinces will engage
external agencies to carry out independent monitoring of resettlement implementation. A Dam Safety
Commnittee has been established for Naji.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Primary stakeholders have been identified through the social assessment and resettlement planning
exercises. Project information has been disseminated among local governments and the affected villages
through conmnunity meetings and focus group discussions. The feedback has been reflected in the project
planning and design. A mechanism has been developed to ensure continued consultation with and
participation of local communities in the implementation of the project. During the environmental
assessment process, extensive consultation was undertaken with communities and affected persons
throughout the defined project areas. Consultation was conducted during both the TOR and draft EIA
stages. Full public release of the EA and resettlement documents will occur in August 2003.
E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determnined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intennediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
issues.
F. Disclosure Requiremlents
Environmental Assessmenit/Analysis/Management Plan:         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 6/24/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             6/30/2003      6/30/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                              6/26/2003      8/12/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive
Directors (For category A projects)
Resettlemient Action Plan/Fra mework:                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 6/30/2003      7/30/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             7/31/2003      8/7/2003
Date of submission to-lnfqShop                              7/31/2003      8/13/2003
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable



6
ISDS
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Saftty Management Plan:                                  Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Graham Smith                                 10/25/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Naoya Tsukamoto                        01/03/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Chaohua Zhang                          02/10/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                         Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Glenn S. Morgan                          02/07/2003
Comments
Acting Regional Safeguards Director Cyprian Fisiy                         02/10/2003
Sector Manager/Director       Jitendra Bajpai                             01/31/2003



