Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER  4728-CHA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Fourth Inland Waterways Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 11, 2004 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4728-CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 11, 2004, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous 
Region and Part B of the Project will be carried out by Guangdong Province with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the 
proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to 
Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region and Guangdong Province, as set forth in this 
Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Guangxi 
Zhuang Autonomous Region and Guangdong Province (the Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  4
-
2
-
(a) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
“Company Law” means the Borrower's Company Law promulgated on 
December 29, 1993, and effective as of July 1, 1994, as the same may be amended from 
time to time; 
(c) 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation or loss of shelter; 
(B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of 
livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or (ii) the 
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting 
in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; and “Displaced Persons” means, 
collectively, all such Displaced Persons; 
 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement; 
(e) 
“Guangdong” means the Guangdong Province, a political sub-division of 
the Borrower; 
(f) 
“Guangdong EAP” means the Environment Action Plan, dated 
September 2003, in respect of Part B of the Project, and referred to in paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, which sets out the environmental protection 
measures in respect of Part B of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said EAP, as the same may be revised from 
time to time with the agreement of the Bank;  
(g) 
“Guangdong Project Financial Management Manual” means the manual 
providing detailed guidelines on financial management, internal controls, accounting 
procedures, fund and asset management and withdrawal application procedures under the 
Project; 
(h) 
“Guangdong Project Management Office” means the office established 
in March 1998, within the Guangdong Provincial Waterways Bureau; 
(i) 
“Guangdong Provincial Waterways Bureau” means the agency 
responsible for the development, construction, operation and maintenance of the 
waterways within the Guangdong Province, and any successor thereto; 
Page  5
-
3
-
(j) 
“Guangdong RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan, dated April 
2003, in respect of Part B of the Project, and referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement, which sets out the principles and procedures governing land 
acquisition from, and resettlement and compensation to, Displaced Persons, as well as 
reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said RAP, as the same 
may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
(k) 
“Guangdong Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(l) 
“Guangxi” means the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, a political 
sub-division of the Borrower; 
(m) 
“Guangxi EAP” means the Environment Action Plan, dated September 
2003, in respect of Part A of the Project, and referred to in paragraph 11 of the Annex to 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, which sets out the environmental protection 
measures in respect of Part A of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said EAP, as the same may be revised from 
time to time with the agreement of the Bank;  
(n) 
“Guangxi Project Financial Management Manual” means the manual 
providing detailed guidelines on financial management, internal controls, accounting 
procedures, fund and asset management and withdrawal application procedures under the 
Project; 
(o) 
“Guangxi Project Management Office” means the office established in 
November 2003 in the Guangxi Communications Department; 
(p) 
“Guangxi RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan, dated July 2003, in 
respect of Part A of the Project, and referred to in paragraph 10 of the Annex to Schedule 
2
to the Project Agreement, which sets out the principles and procedures governing land 
acquisition from and resettlement and compensation to Displaced Persons, as well as 
reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said RAP, as the same 
may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
(q) 
“Guangxi Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(r) 
“GXWCDC” means the Guangxi Xijiang Waterways Construction and 
Development Corporation (Ltd.), a wholly state-owned company established under the 
Company Law and operating pursuant to Articles of Association dated June 2, 1999, and 
Page  6
-
4
-
Business License Number 4500001001171 issued by the Guangxi Industry and 
Commercial Administration Bureau; 
 
(s) 
“Subsidiary Loan” means the loan to be provided to GXWCDC under 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;  
(t) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between Guangxi, represented by the Guangxi Communications Department, and 
GXWCDC pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
GXWCDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement;  
 
(u) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
Guangdong Province and Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region of even date herewith, as 
the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;  
(v) 
“Respective Part of the Proceeds of the Loan” means, in respect of 
Guangdong, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (2) and 
(3) (b), and in respect of Guangxi, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
Categories (1) and (3)(a);  
(w) 
“Respective Part of the Project” means, in respect of Guangdong, Part B 
of the Project, and in respect of Guangxi, Part A of the Project; and 
(x) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement. 
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous 
Region and Guangdong Province. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to ninety one 
million Dollars ($91,000,000). 
Page  7
-
5
-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of each of Parts A and B of the 
Project open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2010, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of  the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, in respect of the Loan, for each 
Interest Period, the London interbank offered rate for six-month 
deposits in Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period 
(or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest 
Page  8
-
6
-
Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of 
such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, in respect of the Loan, for each 
Interest Period: (A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) 
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made 
by it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
said Loan upon not less than six (6) months notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause Guangdong and Guangxi to perform 
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of 
Guangdong and Guangxi therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable Guangdong and Guangxi to perform such obligations, and shall not 
Page  9
-
7
-
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make available to Guangdong and Guangxi their 
Respective Part of the Proceeds of the Loan on the following principal terms: 
 
(i) 
the principal amount shall be made available in Dollars 
(determined on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or of payment out of the respective Special 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn 
or paid out on account of the cost of items required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;   
 
(ii) 
the following shall be recovered over a period of twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years: (A) the 
principal amount so made available; and (B) an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the Respective Part of the Proceeds of the 
Loan;  
 
(iii) 
interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of 
interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and 
(iv) 
a commitment charge shall be charged on such principal amount 
of the Loan so made available and not withdrawn from time to 
time at a rate equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) 
per annum. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Guangdong and 
Guangxi in respect of its Respective Part of the Project pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement. 
Page  10
-
8
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause Guangdong and Guangxi to maintain 
a
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect their operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause Guangdong and Guangxi to: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c)  
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made;  
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant to paragraph (b) 
of this Section. 
Page  11
-
9
-
ARTICLE V 
Other Covenants 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
Guangdong shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;  
 
(b) 
Guangxi shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;  
 
(c) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Guangdong will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement; and 
 
(d) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Guangxi will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue 
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of Guangxi, through the Guangxi Communications Department, and GXWCDC, 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.  
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
Page  12
-
10
-
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Guangdong, and is legally binding upon Guangdong in accordance with its terms; 
 
(b) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Guangxi, and is legally binding upon Guangxi in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(c) 
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the parties thereto and is legally binding upon said parties in accordance with its 
terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 Sanlihe 
 Beijing 
100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Cable address:   
Facsimile: 
 
FINANMIN  
(86-10) 
6855-1125 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  14
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By /s/ 
Zou 
Jiayi  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ David Dollar  
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  15
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be financed
(1) 
Part A.1, A.3, A.6 and 
 
A.7 of the Project: 
 
(a)  Works 
18,080,000 
50% 
 
(b)  Goods 
20,690,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 100%  
 
of
local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) and 
 
75%
of local 
 
expenditures for other 
 
items procured locally 
 
(c)  Consultants’ 
440,000 
91% 
 
services 
 
(d)  Training 
840,000 
100% 
 
(e)  Unallocated 
4,500,000 
 
(2) 
Part B.1, B.3, B.4, B.6 
 
and B. 7 of the Project: 
 
(a)  Works 
25,660,000 
50% 
 
Page  16
-
14
-
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be financed
(b)  Goods 
12,540,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 100% 
 
of
local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) and 
 
75%
of local 
 
expenditures for other 
 
items procured locally 
 
(c)  Consultants’ 
1,720,000 
91% 
 
services 
 
(d)  Training 
1,020,000 
100% 
 
(e)  Unallocated 
4,600,000 
 
(3) 
Front-end fee: 
 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
(a) Part A of the Project 
450,000 
Agreement 
 
(b) Part B of the Project 
460,000 
 
________
TOTAL 91,000,000 
 
========= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region and expenditures in the 
currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed “foreign expenditures”; and 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures.  
Page  17
-
15
-
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $9,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1)(b), (1)(c), (1)(d), (2)(b), 2(c) and (2)(d) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after September 1, 2003. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) under contracts for works costing 
less than $5,000,000 equivalent each; (ii) under contracts for goods costing less than 
$500,000 equivalent each; (iii) under contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
costing less than $300,000 equivalent; (iv) under contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (v) training; all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Page  18
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (i) improving the market 
access for its southern region by upgrading navigation conditions on the region’s major 
east-west river and other waterways feeding into the Zhujiang River Delta region, and (ii) 
meeting the growing energy demand in Guangdong and Guangxi by harnessing water 
flow in two rivers in such region to generate environmentally clean electricity. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Guangxi
1. 
Construction of the Naji Navigation Complex on the Youjiang River between the 
cities of Baise and Nanning, including: 
 
(a) 
construction of a 20 meter high dam; 
 
(b) 
construction of a shiplock; 
 
(c) 
construction of a power plant with a 57 Megawatt capacity and two 
substations to link the power plant to the Baise grid; 
 
(d) 
acquisition and installation of turbines and related equipment for the 
powerhouse; and 
 
(e) 
acquisition and installation of lock gates. 
2. 
Construction of access roads on both banks of the Youjiang River with a total 
length of about 9 kilometers; including the construction of a bridge across the river at the 
dam site. 
3. 
Construction of reservoir protection embankments. 
4. 
Carrying out of channel improvement, including construction of dikes and 
dredging of shoals, between Baise and Nanning, and upgrading of navigational aids. 
Page  19
-
17
-
5. 
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in respect of Part A.1 and 
A.2 of the Project. 
6. 
Capacity building of the Guangxi Communications Department, including the 
Project Management Office, and GXWCDC, and provision of technical assistance, 
training and study tours. 
7. 
Carrying out of studies on (a) the financing, management and operation of 
integrated waterways and power generation resources, and (b) the development and 
installation of a comprehensive management information and control system.  
Part B
:
Guangdong
1. 
Carrying out of channel improvements and regulation works on about 16 
kilometers of the Lao-Long-Hu Waterway, including deepening and widening of the 
waterway, replacement of dikes, construction of a diversion channel, construction of 
embankment protection, and installation of navigational aids. 
2. 
Replacement of two bridges over the Lao-Long-Hu Waterway at Lianyao and 
Longma. 
3. 
Carrying out of channel improvements on about 180 kilometers on the middle 
reaches of the Beijiang River between Shaoguan and Qingyuan, including upgrading of 
navigational aids and construction of auxiliary facilities along the Beijiang River. 
4. 
Construction of the Xiniu Navigation Complex on the Lian River between the 
cities of Xiniu and Hanguang, including: 
 
(a) 
construction of a 10.5 meter high dam; 
 
(b) 
construction of a shiplock; 
 
(c) 
construction of a power plant with a 10 Megawatt capacity and two 
substations to link the power plant to the grid serving the city of Yingde;  
 
(d) 
construction of auxiliary facilities; 
(e) 
acquisition and installation of turbines, lock gates and related equipment 
for the powerhouse; and 
Page  20
-
18
-
(f) 
upgrading of navigational aids. 
5. 
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons in respect of Parts B.1 and 
B.4 of the Project. 
6. 
Capacity building of the Guangdong Provincial Communications Department, 
including the Provincial Waterways Bureau and the Project Management Office, and 
provision of technical assistance, training and study tours. 
7. 
(a) 
Carrying out of a study for the development of a waterway electronic 
mapping system, and implementation of such system. 
(b) 
Carrying out of a study for the development of a shiplock management 
system, and implementation of such system. 
8. 
Acquisition of service vehicles, service vessels, and surveying and monitoring 
equipment. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2009. 
Page  21
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars
)
*
October 15, 2009 
  
2,695,000 
April 15, 2010 
  
2,715,000 
October 15, 2010 
  
2,735,000 
April 15, 2011 
  
2,760,000 
October 15, 2011 
  
2,780,000 
April 15, 2012 
  
2,805,000 
October 15, 2012 
  
2,825,000 
April 15, 2013 
  
2,850,000 
October 15, 2013 
  
2,870,000 
April 15, 2014 
  
2,895,000 
October 15, 2014 
  
2,920,000 
April 15, 2015 
  
2,940,000 
October 15, 2015 
  
2,965,000 
April 15, 2016 
  
2,990,000 
October 15, 2016 
  
3,015,000 
April 15, 2017 
  
3,040,000 
October 15, 2017 
  
3,065,000 
April 15, 2018 
  
3,085,000 
October 15, 2018 
  
3,110,000 
April 15, 2019 
  
3,135,000 
October 15, 2019 
  
3,160,000 
April 15, 2020 
  
3,190,000 
October 15, 2020 
  
3,215,000 
April 15, 2021 
  
3,240,000 
October 15, 2021 
  
3,265,000 
April 15, 2022 
  
3,290,000 
October 15, 2022 
  
3,320,000 
April 15, 2023 
  
3,345,000 
October 15, 2023 
  
3,370,000 
April 15, 2024 
  
3,410,000 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) 
of the General Conditions. 
Page  22
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Part A of the 
Project and Category (2) set forth in said table in respect of Part B of the Project; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $3,000,000 in 
respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project and the amount of $3,000,000 in 
respect of the Special Account for Part B thereof, to be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $2,000,000 in respect of the Special Account 
for Part A of the Project and an amount of $2,000,000 in respect of the Special Account 
for Part B thereof, until (i) in respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project, the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to Category (1) plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part A of the Project shall be equal 
to or exceed the amount of $10,000,000, and (ii) in respect of the Special Account for 
Part B of the Project, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account 
allocated to Category (2) plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part B of 
the Project shall be equal to or exceed the amount of $10,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Page  23
-
21
-
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the respective 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
Page  24
-
22
-
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Category for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
