                                               Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                ReportNo: 27984-CHA




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                  ONA

                                           PROPOSEDLOAN

                                INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$91MILLION

                                                TO THE

                                   PEOPLE'SREPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                FOR A

                              FOURTHINLANDWATERWAYS PROJECT

                                              March 1, 2004




TransportSector Unit
EastAsia andPacificRegion
This documenthas arestricteddistribution andmaybeusedby recipientsonly inthe performanceoftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective January 1,2004)

                         Currency Unit = RMB (Yuan)
                             RMB1.OO = US$O.l2
                             US$l.OO = RMB 8.28

                                FISCAL. YEAR
                             January 1 -- December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA      Country Financial Administration Assessment
CNAO      China NationalAudit Office
DSP       Dam Safety Panel
EAP       Environmental Action Plan
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
GDWB      Guangdong Waterways Bureau
GXWCDC    Guangxi Xijiang Waterways Construction & Development Co.
GXCD      Guangxi Communications Department
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IWT       Inland Waterway Transport
IWW       Inland Waterway
kWh       Kilo-watt-hour
M O C     Ministryo fCommunications
MOF       MinistryofFinance
MBD       Model BiddingDocuments
MW        Mega-watt
PFB       Provincial Finance Bureau
PIP       Project Implementation Plan
PMO       Project Management Office
RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
SOE       State-owned enterprise
TA        Technical assistance
TOR       Terms o f reference
WTO       World Trade Organization



                        Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din-Kassum, EAPVP
             Country Managermirector:      YukonHuang,EACCF
              Sector ManagedDirector:      Jitendra Bajpai, EASTR
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       GrahamSmith, EASTR

                                                                       FOROF'FICLALUSEONLY

                                                      CHINA
                                 FOURTHINLANDWATERWAYS PROJECT


                                                    CONTENTS




     A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page

        1, Project development objective                                                      3
        2. Key performance indicators                                                         3

     B. Strategic Context

        1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedby the project      3
        2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         4
        3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 6

     C. Project Description Summary

        1. Project components                                                                 9
        2. Key policy and institutional reforms supportedby the project                       10
        3. Benefits and target population                                                     11
        4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      11

     D.Project Rationale

        1. Project alternatives consideredandreasons for rejection                            12
        2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies       13
        3. Lessons learned andi-eflected inthe project design                                 14
        4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   14
        5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                        14

     E. Summary Project Analysis

        1. Economic                                                                           15
        2. Financial                                                                          16
        3. Technical                                                                          17
        4. Institutional                                                                      19
        5. Environmental                                                                     20
        6. Social                                                                            21
        7. Safeguard Policies                                                                23

     F. Sustainability andRisks

        1. Sustainability                                                                    24

Thisdocumenthas a restricteddistributionand may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

  2. Criticalrisks                                                                        24
  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       25


G. Main LoanConditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             25
  2. Other                                                                                25

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                            26

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                              21



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           28
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          34
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            36
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary     40
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                     44
          (B)FinancialManagement andDisbursementArrangements                              57
Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule                                                       63
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                     64
Annex 9: Statement ofLoans and Credits                                                    65
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             69
Annex 11:Environmental Assessment andAction Plan Summary                                  71
Annex 12: Summary of ResettlementAction Plans                                             81
Annex 13: Social Assessment andPoverty Alleviation Impact Assessment                      85




MAP(S)

IBRD32887 FourthInlandWaterways Project
IBRD32888 FourthInlandWaterways Project, GuangxiProvince, NajiNavigationalComplex, Channel
Improvements
IBRD32889 FourthInlandWaterways Project, Guangdong Province, XiniuNavigationalComplex,
Beijiang Channel Improvements
IBRD32890 FourthInlandWaterways Project, GuangdongProvince, Lao-Long-Hu Channel
Improvements andBridge Replacement

                                                   CHINA
                                        FourthInland Waterways Project

                                     Project Appraisal Document
                                          EastAsia and Pacific Region
                                                   EASTR

Date: March 1,2004                                     Team Leader: Graham Smith
Sector Managermirector: Jitendra N.Bajpai              Sector(s): Ports, waterways and shipping (58%),
Country ManagedDirector: Yukon Huang                   Renewableenergy (42%)
Project ID: PO77137                                    Theme(s): Infrastructure services for private sector
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)     development (PI, Water ~"-ce      management (PI, Rural
                                                       services and infrastructure (S), Public expenditure,
                                                       financial management andprocurement (S)
Project Financing Data




BORROWER                                                             151.30     I        18.10    I      169.40
[BRD                                                                    0.00             91.00             91.00
Total:                                                               151.30             109.10           260.40
Borrower: PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Responsible agency: GUANGXIZHUANGAUTONOMOUS REGION & GUANGDONG PROVINCE
Guangxi Communications Dept. project executedby Guangxi Xijiang Waterways Construction and Dev. Co. Ltd
Address: 67 XinminRoad, Nanning, Guangxi 530012, P.R. China
Contact Person: Mr.Li, Shangyan
Tel: 86-771-211-5065/86-771-262-0575               Fax: 86-771-261-4441186-771-280-5550                     Email:
wzbgs@public.nn.gx.cn
Other Agency(ies):
Guangdong Communications Dept.; project executedby Guangdong Provincial Waterways Bureau
Address: 195 Yanjiang Zhong Road, Guangzhou 510120, PR. China
Contact Person: Mr.Chen, Zichao
Tel: 86-20-8330-5766               Fax: 86-20-8332-3084                 Email: wbwblpo@pub.guangzhou.gd.cn
MinistryofCommunications
Address: 11JianguomenneiAve, Beijing100736,P.R. China
Contact Person: Ms.Xia Hong
Tel: 86-10-6529-3158               Fax: 86-10-6529-3156                 Email: xiahong@,moc.gov.cn

- 2 -

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)

The Project's main objective i s to improve access for poor regions o f southern China by
upgrading navigationconditions on the region's major east-west river and other waterways
feeding traffic into the Pearl River Delta region. A secondary objective i s to harness water flow in
two o fthese rivers to generate environmentally cleanelectricity to helpmeet growing energy
demandinthe provinces of Guangdong and Guangxi. (Note: Guangxiis anAutonomous Region; the use
o f the term `province' inthis document is for convenience only.)

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

The most meaningful indicator ofimprovedaccess will be loweredtransport costs for goods
carried on the Project waterways. Another indicator will be the average size o f vessels usingthe
Project waterways, as the loweredtransport costs will be made possible by investments in
infrastructure that allow larger vessels to navigate safely year-round. For the agencies managing
the waterways, monitoring vessel size i s far simpler thanmonitoring transport tariffs, which are
privately negotiated between the cargo owners and vessel operators and not reported to any
government agencies. Thus average vessel size will be the basic indicator.

Increased traffic volumes will show that the market has responded to the lower transport costs
and improvement inrelated services. The waterway transport's market share inthese corridors
(vis-A-vis road andrail transport) will show that waterway transport has made a comeback and
has made itselfrelatively more attractive.

Efficiency inconstruction o f electric generating capacity will be measured by the cost per kW
capacity installed and the cost per kWh delivered, compared with generating units of similar size
elsewhere inChina. Efficiency inoperation and maintenance o f the power houses will be
measured by the hours per year when the turbines are available for use (at times when electricity is
demanded and the water level inthe reservoir permits operation).

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported bythe project: (see Annex 1)
Documentnumber: 25141              Date of latest CAS discussion: December 19, 2002

The 2002 CAS stresses that the Bank's operational strategy i s to support China inmakingtwo
historic transitions --from a rural, agricultural society to anurban, industrialized society, and from
a centrally-plannedeconomy to a more globally integratedmarket-based economy. To this end its
main goals are to:
     a) improve the business environment and help accelerate China's transition to a market
     economy;
     b) address the needs ofthe poorer and disadvantaged people and regions; and
     c) facilitate a more environmentally sustainable development process.




                                                       - 3 -

The project aims to provide infrastructure services needed to support private sector development
andruralnon-farm income generation, especially inpoorer regions andinenvironmentally benign
ways.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:

The rapidgrowth o f the Chinese economy has overloaded its transport network, which i s
struggling to keep pace. Invarying degrees the infrastructureo f all transport modes has been
modernized and upgraded, but the tonnages to be moved have grown so fast and so broadly that
inplaces there have beenlongtime lags beforenew capacity couldbeputinto operation. The
expansion o f cities has especially strained urbantransport systems designed for far smaller
populations. The introduction of higher-capacity and higher-quality transport services -notably
long-distance trucking-has       also laggedbehinddemand. Private road transport operations are
growing rapidly but state-owned enterprises still have a substantial market share. Bottlenecks in
infrastructure have beenthe mainfocus o f investments inall modes: roads, railways, waterways,
and especiallyurban transport. A sectorwide issue i s how to ensure transparency inthe awarding
o f contracts (competitive bidding) and ensuring compliance with their price and quality provisions
(supervision). Bottlenecks inservices remain serious. Because o f the under-development o f
China's services sector, the long inland distances, and the railway's concentration on its traditional
bulkcargoes, it was estimated in 1999that China's logistics costs (transportation, warehousing
and distribution) were highat 18 % o f GDP, comparedto 9.5 % inthe USA inthe mid-1990s.
Moreover, whereas indeveloped economies transport accounts for 25% o f the total logistics cost,
inChina itwas closer to half. Over the past five years bigimprovementshave beenmade inthe
transportationinfrastructure and services inthe coastal provinces, but the inland provinces are still
lagging.

Private sector participation inthe growth o f China's highway systemi s advanced interms o f both
development models andprivate capital flows. The private sector has contributed nearly 10% o f
China's total commitment to new construction since the inception o f economic reform inthe early
1980s --highcompared to most countries. However, the degree o f risktransfer from the public
sector has been limitedand obstacles to increased flows o f funds are found inthe legal and
regulatory framework for private participation ininfrastructure.

Transport's role inpromotion of trade: China's exports are crucial to the success of its
economy. However, internal transport costs are high, so that coastal provinces enjoy a
considerable advantage incompetitionwith inland provinces. Part of the problem for the inland
provinces i s distance; part is inefficiency or inappropriatepricing. Intermodal logistic chains are
weak. Ifthe inlandprovinces are to share inthe export boom --either directly or as supplierso f
inputs to manufacturers near the coast--, special efforts are requiredto improve their access to
seaports and to overcome resistance to cooperation across institutional boundaries. China's
membership o f WTO requires opening up o f transport services to foreign participation. This may
be good news for exporters butbadnews for Chinese transport firms.




                                                   - 4 -

Issues related to roads: The Government faces many strategic choices: how to balance the
population's desire for greater personal mobility (car ownership) with protecting the environment
and especially air quality; how to balance spending on expressways with lower class roads; how
to share costs betweennational andprovincial governments; how to finance highways -whether
bytolls or through a user charge added to fuel; how to attract private finance andmanagement
skills into road construction and maintenance; and how to make all roads safer. It also faces the
question: how far should it intervene to promote efficient service-oriented trucking companies in
the private sector, and bywhat means? Government spending has beenconcentrated heavily on
the expressways making up the nationaltrunk highway network, raising questions whether
spending more onupgradingand maintaining existing roads might have done more to improve
access inpoor regions. The legal framework for private participation ininfrastructure needs
attention.

Railway issues: After careful deliberationand analysis of internationalexperience, the
Government has adopted strategic goals for the national railway system, aiming to make it more
responsive to the market. It i s gradually spinningoff non-transport activities as independent
companies. Incertain regions it has set up passenger services as profit centers separate from
freight. It plans to legally separatetransport operations from government oversight, but it
remains to be decidedhow and when. Secondary strategic goals also needto be decided upon:
how far to enable competition among companies offering rail transport services (private or
otherwise); how far to allow pricingflexibility so that prices canreflect costs more closely,
service by service, and carriers and customers can enter into contracts covering not only price but
also service quality; andhow to deal responsiblywith surplus labor, as information technology
eliminates the need for manyjobs.

Inland waterway issues: More than many countries, nature has blessed China with large
navigable rivers linking many o f its major concentrations o f population, especially inthe center
and south where rainfall i s high. Some rivers carry passengers; all carry large volumes o f bulk
cargoes, especially coal, construction materials such as sand and gravel, timber, and mineral ores.
Many o f these cargoes are hauled from rural areas (mines, quarries and forests) to urban areas for
processing. These mines, quarries and forests are often important sources o f employment inpoor
rural areas. However, on the rivers' upper reaches limitedwater depth prevents safe year-round
access by vessels over 100tons. Many o f the costs o f operating vessels vary far less than their
carrying capacity, so larger vessels and sets o f barges pushed by a single power unit can offer
substantially lower costs per ton carried. At relatively modest cost the navigation channels on
these riverscanbe deepened sufficiently to enable much larger vessels to reach far upstreambut
thenmayrequireperiodic maintenance. Separating the power unitfrom the barges allows the
former to be kept inrevenue-earning operation while the barges await loading and unloading.
Inlandwaterway transport (IWT) offers the added advantage that it has less impact on the
environment thanrail or road transport. Accordingly, to ease the pressure o f demand for new
roads and improved railways, the Government has recently stepped up investment inwaterways to
deepennavigationchannels andupgrade navigational aids, at the same time as it has undertaken
public works to control floods.




                                                  - 5 -

Government strategy
The Government is tackling all the above issues with varying degrees o f success. Construction
goes well everywhere. The Government has decided inprinciple to introduce a fuel surcharge to
fundroads buthasnot yet passedlegislation to implement it, apparently due to the complexity o f
the issue and opposition from vested interests. Muchremains to be done to make the roads safer,
especially on driver educationand enforcement. A window of opportunity may be closing to take
tough action to restrain private car use, as one new car-manufacturingjoint venture after another
i s announced. On urbantransport the more innovative cities are buildingundergrounds (metros)
or busways; some are improvingtraffic management and taking steps to make streets safer for
cyclists and pedestrians. Many are catering to private cars to excess, without addressing the
longer-term sustainability o f car-basedcity land-use plans andthe urgent need for an orderly
parlung regime (space, charges and enforcement) and other measures to manage demand. The
Ministryo fRailways, havingannounced its general intentionto undertake 'three separations',
needs to set a timetable to implement them and address its surplus labor issue. The Ministry of
Communications (MOC) i s drafting laws to govern inland waterways (the infrastructure) and
inlandwater transport (the services), to bringmore consistency inrelevant public policies from
province to province and to codify good practice. On export competitiveness the Government is
eager to improve access for inlandprovinces and i s seeking ways to lower their transport costs
and strengthen the logistics services linkingthemwith external markets.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed bythe projectand strategic choices:
The market for inland waterway transport: China's geography andthe location ofpopulation
are exceptionally favorable to IWT anduntil the 1960'swaterway transport accounted for 70-90
percent o f China's inlandtransport market. Buttoday it accounts for only 5-10 percent o f China's
inland transport market. A study financed underthe current Second InlandWaterways Project
found that inland water transportationo f low-value commodities such as coal had a distinct cost
advantage over other modes for distances less than 400 kmbut lost out to road interms o f
flexibility. InJiangsu province, whose waterways allow vessels o fup to 400-500ton capacity and
where bargehow combinations are beginning to be used, the average inlandwater transport tariff
i s about 1.1 US cent per ton-km, and this could be reduced by 20-30% if more vessel owners
were to take full advantage and trade up to larger vessels and bargehow combinations. The
situation i s comparable to other countries that use inlandwater transportation extensively.
Efficient river transport on the Mississippi or the Rhine, for example, can offer rates o f 0.5-1.O US
cent per ton-km for consignments o f 500-2,000 tons, which can rarely be equaled by rail (typically
1-3 US cents per ton-km for consignments o f 100-1,000 tons), while trucks usually cost 6-10
cents per ton-km (for consignments o f 5-20 tons).

Whether a cargo owner prefers river transportation to rail or road, however, depends on the
specifics o f his demand. His choice i s driven by not only the line-haul price but also the size and
frequency o f consignment, its volume and regularity, the need for speedy or predictable delivery,
care inloading andunloading, andcontrol against pilferage. Transport inlarge river vessels will
be attractive to customers with large volumes o f undifferentiatedcargo o f low value, needingto
be hauled over regular routes inlarge consignments, from origins and to destinations near a
riverbank.




                                                 - 6 -

 As the Chinese economymatures and shifts toward manufacturingo fhigh-value intermediate and
 finished products, the primary sector and constructionwill decline inrelative importance,
 shrinkingthe market for IWT. This transition will be felt first inthe coastal provinces. However,
 IWTmay continue to thrive inland for bulkcargoes, oversize loads or dangerous cargo and even
 inthe coastalprovinces itmayprosper where the roador railaltemative is not readily available,
 such as a river delta. A niche market may also develop for containers where the service by road or
rail i s deficient. Taken together, it i s likely that the demand for transport on China's major rivers
will remain substantial for at least the next couple of decades.

Coordinatingmultipleuses of rivers: Rivers are usefulnot only for transport but also for urban
water supply, farm irrigation, and generation o f electricity. Inmuch o f China rainfall i s highly
seasonal, so river flows need to be regulatedand the risk o f flooding has to be managed. Dams
built for flood protection, electricity generation and irrigation impose a need for ship locks and
integrated management o f water releasesthroughout the year. Managing the rivers for these
multiple uses andreconciling conflicting demands is not easy and merits Bank support.

Promotionof independentpower producers: In2003 the Chinese government launcheda
major restructuring o f the power sector, ending the provincial monopolies o f integrated
generation, transmission and distribution companies by spinningoff generation. For many years
already hydro dams have sold their power to the integratedmonopolies from a weak position,
being paid only enough to cover their identifiable costs o f production. Inthe new, competitive
structure, they will gain innegotiating power and financial autonomy, as they acquire the rightto
deliver power directly to major customers at privately negotiatedprices; and all generators, hydro
or thermal, become legally independent o f the distribution companies, so the hydro producers will
no longer be selling to their competitors. Peak hour pricingwill also be introduced. Most hydro
plants focus on peak production becausethey lack sufficient water inthe dry season for daylong
generation, so this will give them an opportunity to increase their revenue substantially. In
compensation, the 'family-style' cooperation with their buyers which has prevailedhitherto will be
replaced by more contractual, arms-length commercial relationships, and risks will have to be
evaluated more formally andallocated appropriately.

The proposedproject involves two such independent power producers, one ineach province.
Technical assistanceto be provided under the project will help these entities prepare for life inthe
new competitive power market.

SteeringIWT operatorstowardlarger vessels: Entrepreneurs contemplating investing in
barges and tows want to be assuredo f a steady demand from cargo owners and o funiform and
assurednavigating conditions on the routes sought by the cargo owners. Since the Government
has devolved the operation o f river fleets to the private sector, the means available to it to
encourage new enterprises to enter the IWTmarket are limitedto: (i)         providing the
infrastructure, (ii)pricing it appropriately, (iii) licensing operators for safety, and (iv) providing
transitional assistance inpromoting the market betweencargo owners and vessel operators and
ensuring the dissemination o f market information (logistics centerdinland container terminals).




                                                     - 7 -

In2001the Governmentpromulgatedrules on(a) standardsfor vessels and(b)management of
old and over-age vessels. However, barring many of the existing vessels on the grounds that they
are old and perhaps unsafe will not ensure that new larger vessels are put into use. A large
number o fvessels operating onChina's waterways are small barges or self-powered boats owned
by individuals andoperatedby the owner andhis family, living onboard. They lack the financing
to trade up to larger vessels. Upgrading of the fleet will require a shift from small family-based
ownership to larger corporate ownership, a willingness to invest innewer technology, and access
to financing.

Public policy instruments to promote the use of larger vessels have beenthe subject o f a study
carried out for Jiangsu province under the Bank-supported Second InlandWaterway Project. The
study documented that the market responseinJiangsu has beengood, butrecommendedthe
provincial government to consider taking certain measuresto speedup the transition. These
range from the creation o f a special fundto finance the construction o f standardized vessels,
differential charges for use of channels andlocks to discourage the continuing use o f small
vessels, restrictingthe use of locks for small vessels, prohibiting the use o f non-standard vessels
and crafts with a capacity o f less than 60 tons inClass 5 waterways over a phasedperiod, and
administrative measuresto deny the registration o f new vessels that are non-standard.

These conclusions are options that Guangxiand Guangdong may consider, should the two
provincial governments deem it necessary to introduce measures to speedup the transition to
larger vessels. However, for the time being, Guangxiand Guangdong do not intendto intervene,
as inbothprovinces the market has and can be expected to continue to respondwell, as i s shown
by the fact that o f the nearly 1,500 vessels over 300 ton capacity operating inGuangxi, two-thirds
were built inthe last five years.

Cost recovery for waterway infrastructure: The national government expects provinces to
recover some but not all public expenditures on waterway infrastructure through charges to IWT
users. Most provinces with large waterway systems levy an annual fees on vessels to cover
channel maintenance and charges for the use o f shiplocks. They aim to generate enoughrevenue
from these fees to cover operation andmaintenance. The remaining finance has to come from
power sales revenues, or where (as inJiangsu) the shiplocks are not combined with power plants,
from general revenues available to the province, with some funding also from the nationalbudget.
Those provinces which have borrowed from the World Bank also aim to cover their debt service
on the Bank loan, which typically i s about 40% o f the capital cost. This results ina level of cost
recovery for waterway investment and maintenance that is one o f the highest inthe world.
Governments inthe EUandNorthAmerica do not seek substantial cost recovery from inland
waterways, because o f their environmental benefits.

This policy on cost recovery for inlandwaterway infrastructure strikes anappropriate balance
between subsidy and financial autonomy, but there remains room for improvement, such as in
modifyingthe structure andlevel o f fees to give stronger incentives for efficient use o f the
infrastructure and to make the grounds for subsidy more transparent.




                                                  - 8 -

Technical assistance to be providedunder the project, while directly serving the implementing
agencies, may also provide pointers for the national government and other provincial governments
to pursue these questions o f how to modernize the management o f inland waterways transport,
how to encourage restructuring o f the fleet, and what pricing and cost recovery policies to adopt
for waterways infrastructure.

C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Projectcomponents(see Annex 2 for adetaileddescriptionandAnnex 3 for adetailedcostbreakdown):
A.     Guangxi: to allow navigation byvessels o f up to 500 ton capacity on the You (Right)
River betweenthe cities o f Baise andNanning(357 km) and generate electricity, through civil
works and associated investments (Map 32888).
    1) Constructiono fthe NajiNavigation Complex about 38 kmdownstreamfrom Baise. It
       will consist o f a 20m-high damto regulate river depth, including a shiplock whichwill
       assure a minimum2.5m o f water above its entrance sill, and a power plant o f 57 MW
       capacity; access roads to the Complex on bothbanks with a total lengtho f about 9 km, a
       bridge across the river, bank protection, and two substations to link the power plant to the
       Baise grid;
    2) Purchase o f turbines and other equipment for the above powerhouse, and o f lock gates;
    3) Construction o f dikes and dredgingo f shoals between Baise and Nanning and upgrading
       o f navigational aids; and
    4) Resettlement o f about 320 residents (farmers and others) living inthe intendedreservoir
       zone and along the alignment o f the approach roads.

B.     Guangdong: to improve navigationconditions and generate electricity through civil
works and associated investments on three waterways (Maps 32889 and 32890).
    1) Channel improvements andregulationworks on the Lao-Long-Hu Waterway (about 16
       km),an east-west waterway inthe Pearl River Deltanetwork servingmainly traffic
       between the rural southwest o f Guangdong and the special enterprise zones around
       Shenzhen, as well as Hong Kong, to allow vessels o f up to 1,000 ton capacity to operate
       safely year-round;
    2) Replacement o f two bridgesover the Lao-Long-Hu Waterway, which are too low for the
       intended larger ships;
    3) Channelimprovements onthe middle reaches o f the Bei (North) River between Shaoguan
       andQingyuan (about 180km)to allow vessels o fup to 300 ton capacity to ply safely
       year-round;
   4) Construction o fthe XiniuNavigation Complex onthe LianRiver, a tributary o fthe North
       River. It will consist o f a 10.5m-high dam to regulate river depth, including a shiplock to
       assure a minimum2.5m water depthabove its sill, and a power plant o f 10 MW capacity,
       two substations to link the Complex to the power grid serving the city o f Yingde, and
       minor channel improvements on about 13 km;
   5) Purchase o f turbines and other equipment for the powerhouse, and o f lock gates; and
   6) Compensationto about 500 farmers for land to be flooded by the intended Xiniu reservoir.




                                                - 9 -

 C.     Institutional strengthening and technical assistance (TA). To strengthen the technical
 and management skills o fpersonnel o f the two project entities, consulting services, overseas
training and study tours will be provided. The TA program i s designed to meet the specific needs
o f each entity. InGuangxi, the project entity was established as a commercial enterprise to
develop andmanage navigational complexes. A relatively new company, its need i s for assistance
and policy support infinance, planningand corporate management. Guangdong's project entity,
on the other hand, i s a line department o f the provincial government and its current objective is to
acquire skills and competency inthe tools andtechniques o f administration. Topics covered by
the program include: (i) financing, development andmanagement o f integratedwater basin
                           the
resources, (ii) power plant operation and maintenance, (iii) sales strategy and pricing, (iv)
                                                              power
shiplock operation and management, (v) procurement and contract management, (vi) development
and implementation of computer-based information systems to facilitate administrative control and
coordination, (vii) implementation o f Internet-based systems to give waterway users information
on river flow, tide and draft conditions inrealtime, and (viii) environmentalprotection.




 GuangxiNajiDam(Navigation Complex)                            75.76       29.1        43.13        47.4
 GuangxiYouRivertraining works                                 13.56         5.2        0.00         0.0
 Guangxi study tours & technical assistance                    14.49         5.6        1.42          1.6
 Guangxl:resettlement                                          22.31         8.6        0.00         0.0
 Guangdongimprovementofthe Lao-Long-Hu Waterway                23.21         8.9       10.34         11.4
 GuangdongregulationofNorthRiverMiddleReaches                  17.29         6.6       10.19         11.2
 GuangdongXiniu Dam (NavigationComplex)                        31.31        12.0       21.59         23.7
 Guangdong study tours & technical assistance                  16.69         6.4        3.05         3.4
 Guangdongresettlement                                           8.28        3.2        0.00         0.0
                                                                                                     0.4



                                              Front-endfee 1    0.91 I       0.3 1      0.91 I        1.o
                                Total FinancingRequired     I 260.43  I   100.0    1   91.00  I    100.0

The Bank loanwill be split between Guangxi ($45 million) and Guangdong ($46 million); the
loan will cover 35 percent of the total financing required. The national government will
contribute the equivalent o f $74million(28 percent o f the total) as an equity contribution from
the national budget. Eachprovince will contribute $29 million (1Ipercent each) from the
provincial budgets. GXWCDC will contribute $12 million fiom its own retained earnings (5
percent o f the total) and Guangxi will complete the financing with a domestic loan or loans
equivalent to about $25 million (10 percent of the total). The national government will on-lend
the Bankloan to the provinces on the same terms, including passing on the exchange risk.

2. Key policy and institutionalreformssupportedby the project:

The project will seek to promote reforms inthe following areas:
    a) Buildingcapacity inthe public agencies responsible for inlandwaterways;



                                                 - 10-

    b) Regulation and facilitation of inlandwater transport;
    c) Strengthening o f independent power producers as part o f the on-going restructuring of the
    power sector; and
    d) Encouraging integratedwater resource management.

3. Benefitsandtarget population:

The project is expected to benefit users o fthe transport corridor from Yunnan andGuizhou
Provinces through Guangxi to Guangzhou, who will be able to take direct advantage o f the water
transport on the river from Baise to the Pearl River Delta area. They will include many
inhabitants o f poor rural areas, as these areas are commonly the source o f many o f the cargoes
carried on the river. The average income per head inthe Baise prefecture (rural western Guangxi)
is about $500, and inthe LianRiver valley and the Xiniu area (the hilly northernpart o f
Guangdong) it is about $400, well below the average for each province. Yunnan and Guizhou are
also well below the national average inincome per head. Other inhabitants o f the corridor will
also benefit indirectly from the reduced congestion onthe competing rail route and from the
creation of new industries attracted by the transport improvements.

4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:

ExecutingAgencies. The implementingagencies of the project are the Guangxi Xijiang
Waterway Construction 2% Development Co. (GXWCDC) for the project components inGuangxi
and the Guangdong Waterway Bureau (GDWB) for the components inGuangdong: GXWCDC
is an independent legal entity established andwholly owned by Guangxi for the purpose of
developing and managing the region's network o f inlandwaterways and currently manages and
operates the hydro-electric damshavigation complexes at Guipingand Guigang, down river from
the Project works. GDWB i s a line department o f the Guangdong Provincial government with
direct responsibility for the province's inlandwaterways and reports to the Guangdong
Communications Department. Each implementing agency has set up a project management office
(PMO) which has a full-time team o f technical staff with prior experience inimplementing a
World Bank project. The Guangxi PMO bringstogether staff from GXDC and GXWCDC, many
o f whom worked on the Bank-supported first InlandWaterways Project (IWWl), completed in
2001, which financed the Guigangdam and shiplock. The Guangdong PMO has managed
successfully its component of the on-going Second InlandWaterway Project (IWW2).

Funds Flow. The proceeds ofthe Bank loanwill flow fiom the Bankto the provincial finance
bureaus (PFB) where the special accounts will be set up, to the project implementing agencies (or
project company), and finally to contractors or suppliers. The loan will be with the People's
Republic of China through its Ministry o f Finance (MOF), and on-lending agreements will be
signed between MOF and the governments o f Guangxi and Guangdong through their PFBs, and
between eachPFB and the implementing agencies --supervised, inthe case o f Guangxi, by the
regional Communications Department. The loan will be disbursed usingtraditional techniques
and not based onproject management reports, inaccordance with a general agreement between
the Bank andMOF.




                                                 -11 -

Project Management Activities

Project Implementation Plan. Each Project Office has prepared a project implementationplan
for their respective component(s), which the Bank has reviewed.

     Procurement. An institutional assessment conducted before appraisal shows that adequate
     skills are available to manage the procurementoperations (Annex 6A). A procurement plan
     has beendeveloped as part o f the Project ImplementationPlan.

     Financial management. Responsibilities for all financial management activities were likewise
     confirmed before appraisal. A financial management specialist has reviewed the current set-up
     and found it adequate to manage project funds (Annex 6B). A financial management manual
     has been developed by each Client.

    Environment. Each Province has submitted an Environmental Impact Assessment (EM) and
     an Environmental Action Plan (EAP), which the Bankhas reviewed and found satisfactory.
     Responsibilitiesfor all environmental management activities are includedinthe Plans.

    Resettlement. Each Province has prepared a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), which sets out
     responsibilities for implementing resettlement. They have beenreviewedand found
     satisfactory by the Bank.

D. Project Rationale
1. Projectalternativesconsideredandreasons for rejection:
Project scope. Guangxi appraised three alternative locations for the Naji dam, the option o f
locating the shiplock adjoining the northor south bank, and alternative reservoir elevations.
Geological considerations determined the choice o f the dam site. After considering its initial
designs, Guangxi devised flood protection embankments that cut back the number o f people
whose landwould be inundatedfrom over 1,000 to fewer than 200.

Guangdong likewise compared three alternative locations for its dam as well as three alternative
design elevations for the reservoir, and three options regarding the turbines: four small, three
medium-size or two large. It chose the locationwhich offered the best geology, and the reservoir
level and turbine configuration which offered the lowest cost per kW o f power capacity.

Project size. The size o f each Province's component was driven mainlyby the financial capacity
o f each province to cover the local cost from its own resources and to service the Bank loan.

Riverbank cargo loading facilities: Considerationwas given to including new or improved river
ports inthe project, but was not pursued. Existingloading facilities along the You River from
Baise to Naming inGuangxi have a total designed cargo handling capacity o f about 6 million
tons, while the actual total tonnage handled in2002 was 5.05 milliontons. InGuangdong, ports
on the middle reaches o f the NorthRiver have a design capacity o f 4.2 million tons; those served
by the Lao-Long-Hu waterway have a capacity o f 5.4 milliontons, while on the upper reaches
above the Xiniu dam there are facilities that can handle some 1.3 million tons. Inaddition, along
the riverbanks are numerous jetties belonging to cargo owners used mainly for loading and



                                                -12-

unloading bulk cargo. Many are rudimentary and inadequate for the plannedtraffic volumes, and
will be submerged bythe new reservoirs. The municipalgovernments and mainuser state-owned
enterprises plan to replace them with new improved quays. These facilities are not under the
jurisdiction of the waterway bureaus and their sponsors do not seek Bank funding.

The government's intention i s to develop the larger and better-located river ports into distributing
ports to complement the major hub ports o f Hong Kong, Guangzhou and Shenzhen. Additional
berths capable of handling vessels exceeding 1,000 tons capacity are already inplace. Cargo
carried on the inlandwaterways will flow from feeder ports into distributingports and insome
cases on to hub ports. The government's planand strategy for inland water port development i s
adequate for the foreseeable future. A re-assessment of the development plan sometime in2010
may be necesssary when the results o f the improvements o f the project waterways become
evident.

2. Major relatedprojectsfinancedby the Bankand/or other development agencies(completed,
ongoingandplanned).
                                                                                    Latest Supervision
               Sector Issue                              Project                        (PSR) Ratings
                                                                                (Bank-fkncel projects only)
                                                                                Implementation  Development
 Bank-financed                                                                   Progress (IP)  Objective(DO)

 Removetransport bottlenecks by            IWWl (completed)                           S              S
 improving IWT facilities.
 Remove transport bottlenecks by           IWW2 (on-going)                            S              S
 improving IWT facilities.
 Construct power-generating facilities as IWWl (completed) &                          S              S
 part of integrated ddpowerhousel          IWW3 (on-going)
 shiplock complex
 Develop intermodal transportation         Container Transport                        S              S
 serving inlandprovinces                   (on-going)
 Modernize river vessel fleets &           PHRD TA inassociationwith                  S              S
 ownership                                 IWW2 andIWW3
 ProcurementusingICB                       GuangxiProv. Highways and                  S              S
                                           manyothers (on-going)
 Waste water treatment for several cities Pearl RiverDelta Environment
 inPearlRiverDelta area                    (appraised early 2004)
 Xher development agencies
 Improve access to rural southwestern     ADB: GuangxiRoadsDev'tI1
 areas through construction o f            (Naming-Bake Expressway)
 high-standardhighway
 '/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory),S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory),I- (Highly Unsatis




                                                     -13-

3. Lessonslearnedandreflectedinthe project design:
As repeat borrowers, the implementingagencies for the proposedproject have drawn usefid
lessons from the experiences o f the one completed inland waterway transport project financed by
the BankinChina (the GuigangdaminGuangxi andthe Dayuandudam inHunan), andthe two
on-going projects: IWW2 inGuangdong and Jiangsu and IWW3 inHunan (Zhuzhou dam) --see
Map 32887. The project agencies have learned international good practice on procurement, cost
estimation, and preparationo f environmentalassessments and resettlement plans inaccordance
with Bankrequirements, includingwide consultationwith stakeholders. Joint ventures of
international and Chinese consultants have advised on techniques for efficient collecting o f data
on fleets and ports, as a basis for monitoring the achievement o f project objectives. Consultants
have also assessedthe potential impact o f fleet restructuringon employment ininland water
transport, and developed programs for improved navigational aids and management information
systems.

The proposedproject will enable Guangxi and Guangdong to take these institution-building
measuresto the next logical stage.

4. Indicationsof borrower commitment andownership:

Long before the identification mission, starting inthe early 1990s the two provincial waterway
bureaus undertook a considerable amount o f analytical and designwork for their respective
components with help from local consultants. The Naji Dam inGuangxi i s plannedas part o f a
'ladder' o f as many as ten dams onthe whole lengtho f the You River and the Yu Rwer into which
it flows; three others exist, one (Baise) is underconstruction and five more are planned(Map
32888). The Xiniu Dam inGuangdong likewise i s one 'rung' ina ladder o f twelve onthe Lian
River, the other eleven having already beenbuiltbetween 1958 and 1975 (Map 32889). The
PMOShave beenreceptive to suggestions from the Bank staff and consultants on ways to enhance
the project design.

5. Value added of Banksupportinthis project:

Since bothprovinces are prior subborrowers from the Bank for major infrastructure, they know
what the Bank offers. They appreciate the savings that have accrued to themby virtue o f the
Bank's international competitive biddingprocedures. Even ifalmost all works contracts go to
Chinese f m s , the Bank procedures are recognizedas imposing demanding standards o f
transparency and the bidders respondaccordingly. It i s also recognizedthat Bank-imposed
contract supervision ensures a highstandard o f compliance with the conditions o f contract. The
riskofpolitical interference is minimized. The Bankis also seenas adding value inits probing of
project altematives to ensure adoption o f the most cost-effective option, and inthe window it
opens on international experience regarding complex project management and matters o f public
policy. On the negative side the Bank's safeguards are seen as onerous and adding not much
value relative to compliance with Chinese laws on environmental and social impacts and
resettlement.

The above applies to all infrastructure. Why waterways? Untilthe mid-1990s China had spent
muchon railways and highways but little on waterways; they remainedtechnically outdated. The



                                                -14-

Bank's support for waterways put the spotlight on them and encouraged the Government to invest
inthem. The institutionalarrangementfor implementingthe inlandwaterway projects inGuangxi
and Hunanand manage the waterways thereafter --proposed by the Bank-- has been innovative
for China: legally independent state-owned enterprises, which for part o f their budgethave to rely
on revenue streams collected from users. These special-purpose firms have worked well so far,
butthey are still young andwill benefit from firther institutionaladvice andguidance as they
consolidate their roles.

The waterways' navigation function is vulnerable to the riskthat priority may be given to use o f
the river flow for other purposes, inimicalto the stability sought for navigation. Inits recent
water resources assistance strategy for China the Bank encouragesthe national andprovincial
governments to adopt integratedwater resource planning approaches. This project would
contribute a working example. For the Naji and Xiniu dams the Bank has encouraged the PMOS
to strengthen mechanisms to coordinate water releases from the dams immediately upstream or
downstream and resolve possible conflicts (see Section E3.5).

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailedassessments are inthe projectfile, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
   Cost benefit       NPV=USSl61million; ERR=22 % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)
(i) highoveralleconomicreturnontheProjectisduemainlytotheLao-Long-HuWaterway
    The
   which, by providinga short-cut for a very large volume o f traffic --about 8 million tons per
   year-- i s expected to yieldvery highbenefits. The improvements to channel depth on the
   North River are also expected to yield large benefits becausea relatively modest investment
   will serve a large volume of traffic.

(ii) twodamsrelyfortheireconomicreturnmainlyontheproductionofelectricityinmarkets
    The
   where additionalcapacity is neededto keep pace withbriskly growing demand. InGuangxi
   the demand for electricity inthe Baise region i s expected to remain strong. When the Naji
    dam starts generating, local supply will meet only 15% o f the demand, including Naji's
    contribution o f 4%. Inother words, Naji will supply about 29% o f electricity generated for
   use inthe Bake region. (Power generated by the Baise Damwill not be fed into the local grid
   butwill be transmittedat highvoltage to larger centers of consumption.) Likewisein
   Guangdong, local supply will meet less than a quarter o f power demand inthe Yingde region;
   the Xiniudam will cover only 3% oftotal demand and contribute 12%o flocal supply. (These
   estimates are for 2008.) Each distribution company will have to cover the shortfall by
   importing power from outside its region. Considering the transmission losses involved, local
   suppliers will enjoy a substantial cost advantage.

(iii) economicvalueoftheiroutputisequivalenttothecostofinstallingandoperatinga
   The
   thermal planto f the same capacity. Since the dams will be usedprimarily for peak-hour
   generation, the comparable thermal technology would most likely be a gas turbine plant. The
   cost o f electricity generated by such a plant i s estimatedat about 6.5 U S cents per kwh. A t
   that price the value o f electricity will make up the lion's share o f benefits from the Naji dam,



                                                 -15-

     giving a satisfactory ERo fabout 18%. Xiniu dam, havinga far smaller, run-of-river
     generating capacity, will depend more evenly on electricity andnavigation benefits, with a
     best-estimate ER o f about 14%.

(iv)Since achievement o f the intendedincrease invessel size is outside the direct control ofthe
     Government, it remains subject to some uncertainty. Ifthis goal is met, the ER o f all
     components i s acceptable, but ifnot, the ER on the Xiniu Damwill be marginal; GDWB
     would then be advised to take action to encourage a faster shift to larger vessels. (The value
     o f green-house gas emissions avoided by relying on hydro power rather than thermal has not
     been estimated, but will add to the economic return.)

(v) Inthe case o fthe Naji dam, the `Do Nothing' alternative entails growing congestiononthe
     competing railway lines, which we have not attempted to value. It i s also hard to predict the
     railway's competitive response to the Project, especially since reform o f the railway i s planned
     butuncertainas to its scope andtiming. However, the expected ERis robust enoughto
     realistic risk inthe main variables, to give a highprobability o f a satisfactory value.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$-43 million;FRR= 1.X % (see Annex 4)
Based on their past and current performance, expected revenue from electricity sales and other
sources o f income, supplemented by budget allocations, both GXWCDC and GDWB are
expected to be able to service the proposedloan, as well as meet operating costs and existing debt
service.

The financial performance o f GXWCDC andGDWBhas been satisfactory. Revenue from
operations supplemented by budget appropriations has been able to meet operating costs and loan
repayments. Inthe case o f GXWCDC, net cash surplus declined from RMB 19.0 million in2000
to RMB 3.2 million in2002 due to service on the Bank's IWWl loan. GDWB, whose repayment
o f principal on the Bank's IWW2 loan does not start until2004, has a net cash surplus that has
improved steadily fiom RMB -10.5 million to RMB +21.5 million during the same period.

The Guangxi regional government will not have to contribute to the servicing o f its debt to IBRD
for IWWl andIWW4 becauseGXWCDC's cash flow from power sales from its existing dams
will suffice. GDWB incontrast may face minor deficits duringthe IWW4 constructionperiod but
the deficit relative to the total revenue for each year will be small (less than 2%). The yearly
deficit will be made good with budget allocations from GuangdongProvince and should not affect
day-to-day operations. The province's contribution to project costs is small relative to its total
budget. In2009, the first year inwhich principal repayments will come due, Guangdongprovince
will have to allocate about 13 percent o f its total revenue to the servicing o f its debt to IBRDfor
IWW2 and IWW4. After 2009, the share will be smaller. Thus, on the basis o f the flow o f finds
analysis, the project is financially viable.

Cost recovery policies: The waterway companies are revenue-earning but are not expected to
cover all their recurrent costs from electricity sales, supplemented by waterway user fees. As
noted above, 50 percent o f the project's capital cost will be coveredby grants from the national




                                                  - 16-

and provincial budgets. The financial performance and debt service record o f provinces which
have borrowed from the Bankhave been generally good.

Contingencies: After an inflationary periodinthe first half o f the `90s when many projects
suffered cost over-runs, more recently several projects have yielded large savings relative to
feasibility study cost estimates. The front-end fee and commitment fee had nonetheless to be paid
on amounts that were subsequently canceled. The Chinese govemment has argued for smaller
contingency margins than those normally advocated by the Bank Inresponse the Bank has
recommendedthat consultants preparing the project revise unit prices downward to reflect recent
biddingexperience. Thisportfolio-wide issue is now the subject of dialoguebetweenthe two
parties. Inthe inland waterways projects thus far, bidprices for civil works have tended to come
inbelow the estimated costs, while those for equipment have beeninthe regionoftheir cost
estimates. As an interimmeasurepending a general resolution, the present document uses the
cost estimates from the preliminary engineering and provides for price escalation o f 4 percent over
the construction period 2004-9 and 8 percent physical contingencies.

Fiscal Impact:

See above

3. Technical:
3.1     Naji Dam geological and foundation issues

Among the three sites evaluated for the Naji dam as part o f the feasibility study, the middlesite
was found to be the most suitable on grounds of topography, geophysical conditions and
hydrology. It was model tested ina hydraulic laboratory. However, the geology consultants
pointed to unsatisfactory, possiblyunsafe, geological foundation conditions for the dam and
powerhouse at the selected location, thus suggesting additional investigations. Followingthe
Bank's comments, a series o f additional geological investigationswere undertakenby different
geology consultants. The interim evaluations of the last investigations showed more favorable
conditions than the earlier ones. To overcome the issue o f different interpretations, the Bank and
GXWCDC agreed that both geology consultants, supportedbythe geology expert member of the
Naji Dam Safety Panel, would together analyze all findings, andmake recommendations for the
design o f the foundations for the different parts o f the complex. The main conclusions from these
investigations were as follows:

        Inthe event ofseismic activity there wouldbenodanger ofsand-soil liquefactioninthe
        reservoir area, including the area o f the dam structure.
        Analysis o f the material inthe area o f the shiplock and the powerhouse shows that the
        possibility o f a side-shear slide between the adjoining structures is small.
        Extensive grouting under and around the permanent structures and temporary cofferdams
        will be necessaryto prevent water seapage.
        Placingboththe powerhouse andthe shiplock on the river's right bank will allow bothto
        be brought into operation one to one-and-a-half years before completion of the left-bank
        overflow gates, a substantial economic advantage.
        Existingsmall coal mines withinthe reservoir areawill not affect the storage and safe
        operation o f the Naji reservoir.



                                                  - 17-

The preliminary design o fthe shiplock, powerhouse, dam and reservoir was essentially complete
at appraisal, andpreparationof the detaileddesign and biddingdocuments began shortly
thereafter. That stage entailedsome fiuther investigation into how much grouting will be needed
around the dam's foundations. Any extra cost that may result i s expected to be well within the
contingency provided inthe cost estimates.

3.2    The Lao-Long-Hu Waterway regulation works

The critical location on the Waterway is the area where a major excavation i s foreseen to reduce
curvature at a bend, near a point where another channel enterdleaves the Waterway. To verify
the soundness o fthe design, the consultant prepared a largenumber o fmathematicalmodel tests,
supplemented by a hydraulic model o f this key stretch.

GDWB's consultants presented anenvironmentally satisfactory solution to the disposalofthe 1.2
million m3 o f material to be dredged from the Waterway (Annex 11).

Future maintenance o f the protective embankments will require careful supervision, since the
southem bank will be maintainedby GDWB while the northembank will be maintainedby the
Guangdong Water Conservancy. To the north is a populated area which already has
embankments for flood protection, whereas areas to the south are as yet largely unpopulated and
not protected. Regular sideslope maintenance will be critical with the appearing on the Waterway
o f large vessels (of 1,000 ton capacity). GDWB has assuredthe appraisal team that the Water
Conservancy will maintain the northernbank appropriately. A covenant in the Project
Agreement commits Guangdong to ensuring that this is carried through (Schedule 2,para. 9).

Two bridges spanning the waterway will be demolished by the provincial govenunent prior to
opening o f the Waterway. These bridges provide only a 3.5m vertical clearance at highwater, too
low to allow the foreseen large vessels to pass. They will be replaced by bridgesprovidingthe
needed clearance. A covenant in the Project Agreement commits Guangdong to ensuring that
this is done by June 30, 2007 (Schedule 2,para. 10).

3.3    Regulation of the Middle Reaches of the North River (Bei Jiang)

Consultants conducted extensive investigations andtests to verify the hydraulic soundness o f the
proposedgroins designed to direct water flow into the central navigation channel. They are
satisfactory to serve as the basis for detailed engineering, launched after the appraisal.

3.4 Xiniu Dam geological and foundation issues
As with the Naji dam, among the three sites evaluated for the Xiniudam as part o fthe feasibility
study, the middlesite was found to be the most suitable ongrounds oftopography, geophysical
conditions andhydrology, and was model tested ina hydraulic laboratory.

The preliminary designo f the shiplock, powerhouse, dam andreservoir were essentially complete
at the time o f appraisal. However, inlight o f the presence o f limestone caves inthe vicinity o f the
dam axis, additional investigations o f the substrata were then conducted. These were completed


                                                 -18-

to the Bank's satisfaction before loan negotiations and allowed work to proceed on the detailed
design o f the foundation works.

The detaileddesign is being prepared by the Transportation Planning Survey and DesignInstitute
o f Hunan, a more experienced consulting company thanthose who prepared the feasibility study.
GDWBhas appointeda XiniuDam Safety Panelto assist andadvise it andits consultants on
geological and construction issues (as requiredby the Bank's Operational Policy 4.37).

3.5      Coordination of water releaseswith other dams

Exchange o f information with other agencies will be important inboth the construction and
operationphases o f the two Project dams. This will apply especially to the Naji damvis-a-vis the
much larger Baise dam 60 kmupstream, now under construction and due to start operatingby
2005. (Between 1998 and 2000 the Bankworked onpreparing a loan for the Baise dam, but the
Government withdrew its request when the Bankended IDA lendingto China and tightened its
IBRDloanterms. The Bank'sassessment ofthe damwas generally favorable as far as it went.)
Fromthe time the dams start operating, day-by-day consultations and coordination will be needed
regarding the release o f water from each dam to achieve stable navigating conditions. The Baise
Dam is managed by the Youjiang Water and Power Corporation, a company set up for this
purpose by the province. It operatesunder the guidance of a 'project leading group' headed by the
provincial govemor and made up o f representatives o f provincial agencies with an interest inthe
dam, including the Communications Department. Two other dams inthe vicinity o f Baise city
--Chengbihe and Dongsun-- also will release water into the Right River above Naji. (Please refer
to Maps; IBRD32888 "Surface Profile of SteppedDamsDevelopment inYujiang Valley"
attached to this document.)

As a condition of the Subloan Agreement between Guangxi and GXWCDC, GXWCDCwill, by
December 2007, enter into an agreement with the entities responsiblefor these three dams:
Guangxi Youjiang Water Conservancy Development Co.Ltd, Baise Chengbihe Reservoir
Administration Bureau, and Baise Electric Power Co.Ltd, in accordance with a letter of intent
signed among theparties in October 2003,for exchange of information on the safety of the dams
and the coordination of water releasesfrom the three upstream dams, to ensure the achievement
of thepurposes, and the safety, of the Naji dam (Project Agreement, Annex to Schedule 2, para.
16).

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executingagencies:

See SectionC4.

4.2 Projectmanagement:

Noproblem is foreseen within the two existing PMOS. They will benefit from periodic reviewso f
project progress by the two dam safety panels.

4.3 Procurement issues:

Procurement will be undertaken inaccordance with Bank's procurement guidelines. Contract


                                               - 19-

packaging and the method of procurement for each contract i s to be found inAnnex 6A. An
assessmentbased on the revisedinstructionfor assessment o f an executing agency's capacity to
implement procurement issuedby OPCPR inJuly 2003 was carried out before appraisal. The
assessmentconcluded that the PMOShave accumulated sufficient experience on the Bank's
procurement guidelines and would be able to manage procurementunder the project satisfactorily.

4.4 Financialmanagement issues:

The financial management arrangements are summarized above inSectionC4, and details are
given inAnnex 6B. Our assessment, basedon guidelines issuedby the Financial Management
Sector BoardinJune 2001, has concludedthat the project meets minimumBank financial
management requirements. Inthe team's opinion, the project will have inplace an adequate
project financial management systemthat can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and
timely information on the status o f the project inthe reporting format agreed with the project and
as required by the Bank.
5. Environmental:                        Environmental Category: A (FullAssessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation anddisclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.

The environmental assessment was entrustedto independent institutes ineach province. Drafts of
their Environmental Impact Assessment reports (EIAs) and Environmental Action Plans (EAPs)
were reviewed by the Bank. Public consultationwas conducted twice: oncejust after completion
o f the draft TOR o f the EIA and the other after completion o f the draft EIA. The final EIAs and
EAPshavebeen submittedto the Bank for review, found satisfactory and disclosedat InfoShop.

This project will cause environmentalimpacts similar to those that have beenexperienced under
the previous inland waterway projects. The potential major environmental issues during
construction are water pollutioncontrol, waste material dumping, protection o f residential areas,
andprotection o f ecological environment. Those impacts will be mitigated to the levels that
satisfy national and local environmental standards, providedthat mitigation measures described in
the EAPs are appropriately implemented.

The following are the mainmitigation measures for each sub-component.

Naji Navigation Complex:
 0    The dadshiplock will be builtwithin a cofferdam format. Generationo f suspendedsolids
      will be carefully controlledthrough the use o f silt curtains and settling ponds.
 0    To address interference with migratory fishpatterns, the Project Office will establish fish
      conservation centers. The provincial governments are now considering establishing fish
      conservation centers, the purpose o f which mightinclude the rehabilitation o f biodiversity in
      the reservoir.
 0    Onthe recommendation o fthe relevant authority, the project will excavate 1,000 square
      meters o f Poluo Relics to protect some pre-historic artefacts found inan area that will be
      flooded by the reservoir.

Lao-Long-Hu Waterway regulation:
 0    Dredged materials will be disposed o f inthe former navigational channel (replaced bythe


                                                   - 20 -

      new Sanjiaowei Bend) and several upland sites. At the latter, dredged materials will be
      hydraulically pumped from barges to the disposal sites, the effluent o f which will be carefully
      regulatedto control suspendedsolids.

North River regulation:
 0    Duringdredgingworks, silt curtains willbe usedto protect water quality.
      Dredged materials will be dumped at designated dumping areas withinthe river.
 0    No blasting will be conducted and regulation work will avoid fishreproduction seasons.

XiniuNavigation Complex:
 0    The ddshiplock will be builtwithin a cofferdam format. Generation o f suspendedsolids
      will be carefully controlledthrough the use of silt curtains and settling ponds.
 0    A wastewater treatment facility will be installedto treat the wastewater from the
      construction camp inorder to protect the water intake for Xiniu Town.
 0    Dredgedmaterial, to the extent suitable, will be used either as part o f the dam foundation or
      as part o f three new river regulation spurs. Unsuitable material will be dumped at
      designated dumping areas inthe river.

5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?

The environmentalaction plans include mitigationmeasures, environmentalmonitoring plans, and
institutional arrangements for supervisionand monitoring. Implementationo f the EAPs will be
made a legal obligation o f each contractor through the contract documents.

5.3 For Category A andB projects, timeline and status of EA:
                    Date ofreceipt of final draft: July 2003


5.4 How have stakeholders beenconsultedat the stage of (a) environmentalscreeningand (b) draft EA
reportonthe environmentalimpacts andproposedenvironmentmanagementplan? Describemechanisms
of consultationthat were usedandwhich groups were consulted?

Extensive public consultations were conducted with a broad representation o f people duringthe
preparationo f all the TORSand the draft EIAs, including public meetings, interviews, and mail
questionnaires. Face-to-face interviews were conductedwith people who are illiterate. The
stakeholders comprise farmers o f the areas to be inundated, village people, schoolteachers, local
government officials, and local politicians.

5.5 What mechanismshave beenestablishedto monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicatorsreflect the objectivesandresults of the EMP?

The EAPs define the environmental indicators and issues to bemonitored, monitoringmethods
and frequencies. They also define institutional arrangements to conduct the environmental
supervision and monitoring. The results will be reported to the Bank inquarterly project progress
reports, and annually inindependent annual reports. The annual monitoring reports will be
fumished to the Bank during construction and the first three years o f operation following the
completion o f construction.

6. Social:
6.1 Summarizekey social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project'ssocial
developmentoutcomes.



                                                    -21 -

Eachprovince commissioned a social assessment study and a study to evaluate the poverty
reduction impacts o f the project. They indicated that it i s expected to promote social and
economic development inthese areas through improving the navigation conditions and adding to
the electricity supply. The studies also revealed concems o f the affectedpopulation and proposed
measures to address these concerns. These were incorporated into the project design.

The adverse impact o f the project i s related to land acquisition andrelocation o fpeople. Both
project offices engaged experienced consultants to work with the local governments to carry out
the resettlement planning. The planningactivities includedsocioeconomic surveys, a detailed
inventory o f impacts, a census o f the affected population, and consultations with each affected
farmer group to designtheir rehabilitationmeasures. The Resettlement Action Plans were
prepared on the basis o f this field work inline with relevant Chinese laws, regulations and the
World Bank Operational Policy 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement.

The social assessments included a screening exercise for, and consultations with, affectedethnic
minority groups. This assessment was carried out by independent institutes inboth directly and
indirectly affected areas. While no ethnic minority communities were identified inthe project areas
inGuangdong, theGuangxiComponent willimpactalargepopulationofZhuangethnicity. The
Cross-cultural Research Center o f Zhongshan University carried out field and analytical work on
the affectedZhuang population for compliance with World Bank Operational Directive 4.20 on
Indigenous People. They included further research o f academic data and historical records, focus
group discussions, and interviews with local leaders and farmers. This assessmentindicated a
highlevel ofintegrationofthe Zhuang ethnic group into the Hanpopulation andthis is reflected
inall aspects oftheir social, political, economic andculturallife. The socialassessment concluded
that the Zhuang population affected under the project did not fall under the Bank's definition o f
indigenous people and therefore the policy would not apply to this project.

The project preparationteam also looked at the gender aspects o f the project, particularly inthe
context o f project impacts, mitigationmeasures and ethnic minority groups. These were designed
into the terms o f reference o f the social assessment andresettlement planning exercises. The
questionaires had specific gender-related questions. The social assessmentsconducted focus
group discussions with women and interviewedwomen members o f the affected communities.
These aimed at creating spaces and opportunities for women to express their opinions and
concems about the project and participate inthe project planning process.

Duringthe project designprocess, screening ofcultural relics was also conductedfor possible
impacts inbothprovinces. Bothprovinces had the provincial cultural relics institutes conduct
these surveys. Bothinstitutes produced survey reports. Some cultural sites were identified and
requiredmeasureshave been proposedand designed (see 5.1 above). The relevant policy
requirements, screening process, field surveys and findings as well as designed measuresare
documented inthe project environmental assessment reports.

6.2 ParticipatoryApproach How are key stakeholders participatinginthe project?

The project has followed a participatory approach inresettlement planning. Primary stakeholders
were identified through the social assessment exercises. Project information was disseminated



                                                  - 22 -

among local governments andthe affected communities through public postings, radios and
village meetings. The project offices triedto post inventory, census and compensation
information inall villages for feedback. The resettlement planningteams worked together with
each farmer group to develop their own livelihoodrehabilitationmeasures. Resettlement
information booklets are being developed and distributedto every household for implementation.
Thisparticipatory approach is designedto continue duringthe implementation of the project.

6.3 How does the projectinvolve consultations or collaborationwith NGOs or other civil society
organizations?

The Cross-culture Research Center and Guangzhou Social Science Academy carried out the
social assessment andpoverty reduction impact assessment for both Guangxi and Guangdong
components o f the project. Guangxi Land Resources Survey Institute, Guangzhou Social Science
Academy and East China Power Design Institute were also engaged to carry out the resettlement
planning for the project. All the village committees inthe affected areas took part inthe
resettlement planning process.

6.4 What institutional arrangementshave beenprovidedto ensure the projectachieves its social
developmentoutcomes?

Both provinces have established an institutional structure to implementthe resettlement program.
The structure includes resettlement offices at the provincial, county, and township offices, the
design institutes, and the independent monitor. These offices will be staffed with competent and
experienced staff and equipped with all necessaryequipment. An internal management and
monitoring system is already designed and documented inthe draft resettlement actionplans.

6.5 How will the projectmonitorperformance interms of socialdevelopment outcomes?

Guangxi and Guangdong have each hired an external institution experienced inresettlement
planning andimplementationto carry out the independent monitoring of the resettlement program
implementation.

7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describeprovisionsmade by the projectto ensure compliancewith applicablesafeguardpolicies.

See Sections 5 and 6 above.




                                                - 23 -

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:

The potential response o f the market to the availability o f improvedwater transport infrastructure
will depend on many factors, most o fthem beyondthe control o fthe project implementing
agencies. Inthe Bank-financed first InlandWaterways Project, completed in2001, the average
size o f vessels passing through the Guigang lock increased 17%inthe first year o f operation and a
further44% the following year. Inlightofthe experience, bothGuangxi and Guangdong do not
propose to intervene inthe market to stimulate the transition to larger vessels. However, both
PMOSwill monitor traffic volumes against the forecasts, so that they can modify this decision and
consider intervening ifthe traffic fails to meet their expectations. As noted inthe preceding
section, the Xiniu Dami s the case where this would be most critical to achieving a satisfactory
returnon investment.

There i s little doubt that the electricity generated by the two proposed dams will be purchased by
the local power distribution companies. Today generating capacity i s short; inthe future the low
marginal cost o f hydro-electricity will make it attractive. The national government is seeking
ways to reduce acid rain, puttinghydro-electricity ina strong position. Furthermore, the peak
season for electricity demand (air conditioning) coincides with the peak rains; the dnest months
(late autumn) fortunately are also months o f low power demand inthe South. GDWB has
reachedprovisional agreement with the power purchaser on the purchase price o f power to be
generatedinXiniu. Power pricingi s included inthe technical assistanceto assist GXWCDC in
negotiating the sale o f power generated inNaji.

2. CriticalRisks (reflectingthe failure of critical assumptionsfound inthe fourth column of Annex 1):
                                                Risk Rating                 Risk Mitigation Measure

Businesses are not attracted to Project               M         Provinces would develop anddisseminateIWT
corridors despite improvedIWT.                                  marketingstrategy.
Shipoperators fail to investinlarge                   S         Provincial governments do not at this stage wish
vessels.                                                        to intervene, but ifmarket responseproved
                                                                disappointing,they would decide on an action
                                                                plan of incentives andpromulgateit, monitor
                                                                response, then ifwarranted, modify measures or
                                                                disseminationcampaign.
Revenuepotentialfrompower sales is                    M         Technicalassistance onpowerpricingis to be
impairedby delayedimplementationof                              includedinproject.
power sectorrestructuring.
Droughtsare more frequent or severe than              M         Coordinationamongagenciesmanagingdams
inrecentpast, restrictingriver use &                            on differentreachesof same river will be
power generation.                                               strengthened.
From Componentsto Outputs
Qualified DamSafety Panel, adequacy of                M         DamSafetyPanelconsistingofexpertsin
engineering designs, qualified contractors,                     various fields has reviewedoutcome of
andquality of supervisionand satisfactory                       investigationsandpreliminary designs. RAP
implementationof RAPnot inplace.                                satisfactoryto the Bank is inplace.



                                                    - 24 -

 Effective coordination mechanismfor                              GXWCDC has signed a letter o f intentwith the
 water releasebetween Baise andNaji                               entities responsible for three upstream dams,
 dams not inplace.                                                committing to coordination provisions
                                                                  acceptableto the Bank.
 Overall Risk Rating                                   M



3. Possible ControversialAspects:

None.

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. EffectivenessConditions

1.1 Receipt of legalopinions from the national government on the LoanAgreement and from Guangxiand
Guangdong on the Project Agreement.

1.2 Signing of the subsidiary loanagreementbetweenGuangxi and GXWCDC, inaccordancewith the
relevant provisions set out inthe Project Agreement's Schedule 2 andits annex.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the LegalAgreements.]
Agreement reachedwith the Government

2.1 The Borrower will on-lend the proceedsof the loan to Guangxi ($45 million) and Guangdong ($46
million) on the same terms andconditions as the Bank loan, including the foreign exchangerisk; and
Guangxi will on-lend its subloan to GXWCDC on the same terms and conditions as the Bankloan plus a
fee (for Guangxi) of 1% of the subsidiary loan amount.

Agreements reachedwith Guangxiand Guangdong

2.2 Financialperformance targets: GXWCDC is to maintain a debt service ratio o f not less than 1.2 and
an operating ratio o fnot less than 73%; and for both GXWCDC and GDWB other performance targets
are set out inAnnex 1.

2.3 Flow o f funds: Authorized allocation for the two special accounts: each starts at $2 million, raised to
$3 million once disbursementsfrom the corresponding part o f the loan exceed$10 million.

2.4                        i s allowed up to $9 million in aggregateon expendituresmade after September 1,
2003.

2.5 Guangxi and Guangdong are to carry out their respective training prom-amsinaccordancewith an
annualtraining planacceptableto the Bank.

2.6 Guangxi and Guangdong are to carry out their respective environmental action plans and resettlement
actionsplans, furnishto the Bankany proposedrevisions to these plans, and carry out those revisions to
which the Bank agrees.




                                                     - 25 -

2.7 Guangxi and Guangdong are to monitor the implementation o ftheir EAPs and RAE'Sand submit
monitoring reports to the Bank twice a year, by February 15 and August 15 o f each year, starting February
 15, 2005.

2.8 Dam safety: GXWCDC is to continue to employ a panel o f dam safety experts for the Naji Damto
review the adequacy o f its design and construction procedures, prepare an acceptable plan for (i)
construction supervision and quality assurance, (ii)  instrumentation, (iii)operation and maintenance, and
(iv) emergency preparedness acceptable to the Bank, andcarry out periodic safety inspections ofthe Dam
after its completion.

2.9 GDWB is to continue to employ a panel o f dam safety experts for the XiniuDamto review the
adequacy o f its design and construction procedures, prepare an emergency preparedness planacceptable to
the Bank, and carry out periodic safety inspections o f the Damafter its completion.

2.10 Progress reporting andMid-project review: Each PMO is to submit a semi-annual progress report on
project implementation by February 15 and August 15 o f each year, starting with February 2005 and until
the project is completed. Each PMO is also to submit a mid-project implementation progress report by
November 15,2006, to be reviewedwith the Bank by March 15,2007.

2.11 Coordination with other entities for proiect implementation: GXWCDC is to submit by December
31, 2007 an agreement on coordination o f water releases with dams upstream, consistent with the Letter of
Intent signed on October 22, 2003 (prior to negotiations).

2.12 Guangdong Province is to take all actions required to (a) cause demolition andreplacement ofthe two
low bridges onthe Lao-Long-Hu Waterway by June 30,2007; and (b) maintain at all times the
embankment protection on the northembank o fthe Lao-Long-Hu Waterway to acceptable standards.

H. Readinessfor Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocuments forthefirstyear's activitiesarecomplete andreadyforthestart
         o fproject implementation.
0 1.b)Notapplicable.

[? 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities arecomplete andready for the start of
       project implementation.
    3. The Project Implementation Planhas been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
       quality.
04.Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):

The preliminary detailed engineering designs were reviewedby the Bank during appraisal (August 2003)
andfound to be essentially complete. Guangdonglaunched detailedengineering immediately thereafter,
whereas inGuangxiselection o f the consultants was completed only inDecember 2003. Guangdong is
expected to complete full engineering drawings and design documents by April 2004 and Guangxia month
or so later.

The launch o fproject implementation is being timed such that the main civil works contracts can begin in
October-November 2004 duringthe dry season (late September to April). Procurement documents for the
first year's activities will be fmalized upon completion o f the detailed designs, to be ready for the start of




                                                    - 26 -

project implementation inaccordancewith this timetable. Terms of reference for the technical assistance,
training and studies were finalized at appraisal and the first such contracts can be awarded soon as the loan
becomes effective, expectedby July 2004.

The two Project Implementation Plans have beenappraised and found to be realistic andof satisfactory
quality.

I. Compliance with Bank Policies
IXI 1. This project complies with all applicable Bankpolicies.
02. ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
       all other applicable Bank policies.

None.




   Gr;aham smith                          Jitendra N.Bajpai                           YukonHuang
   Team Leader                            Sector ManagedDirector




                                                   - 27 -

                                    Annex I:Project Design Summary
                                CHINA: Fourth InlandWaterways Project



Sector-related CAS Goal:       Sector Indicators:                Sector/ country reports:     (from Goal to Bank Mission)
[mprove accessibility for poor Zontribution o fpoor regions      Yational income statistics   Transport improvement
xovinces, especially           :o GDP; income per head in                                     stimulates economic
Pegarding export opportunitie  2eneficiary provinces                                          development and thus helps
                                                                                              alleviate poverty.
Reduce greenhouse gas          Mix o f renewable and fossil      Energy statistical reports   Air quality will not be
:missions and pollution by     Fuel sources for power                                         overwhelmed by growth in
shiftingenergy mix away        ;eneration.                                                    other polluting sources (e.g.
Som fossil fuels.                                                                             automobiles).

'roject Development            3utcome / Impact                  'roject reports:             (from Objective to Goal)
3bjective:                     ndicators:
Improve waterway access for    ronnage moving by waterway rransport statistical yearbook Lowered tariffs on I W T will
ioor regions in Guangdong,     md IWT's share of market in                                    attract traffic in significant
3uangxi and neighboring        otal inland transport market.                                  volumes (new and diverted
xovinces (Guizhou &                                                                           from other transport modes).
'r'unnan)
iaise efficiency o fwaterway   3reater use o f large vessels     'roject monitoring of river  Fleet owners will invest in
ransport (vessels)             md barge+pusher                   leet composition.            larger vessels for use on
                               :ombinations                                                   Project waterways.
                                                                                              (a) MOC's policy guidelines
                                                                                              for vessel modemizationare
                                                                                              followed and have their
                                                                                              intended effect;
                                                                                              (b) ship owners have access to
                                                                                              financing for larger vessels; &
                                                                                              (c) loading facilities for larger
                                                                                              vessels are improved as
                                                                                             planned.
,ewer tariffs chargedby IWT    ,ewer cargo tariffs.              'eriodic sampling by PMOS    Competitive market, no
:arriers                                                         Iftariffs paid.              collusion or govt intervention
                                                                                              to discourage rate
                                                                                              competition.
                                                                                              Railway is not subsidized, nor
                                                                                              does railway pursue
                                                                                              aggressive competitive
                                                                                              response to protect its market.
3enerate power to supplement   :ost per kW o f capacity:         Gnal construction cost      Hydro-electricity has lowest
,ourcesavailable to remote     (aji:  $1,300 per kW              isolating cost of power     marginal cost (near zero);
reas                           Ciniu: $2,650 per kW              louse)                       local demand will exceed
                               assigning 213 o f dams' cost to                                local supply
                               lower generation)




                                                           - 28 -

                                                                                                                         -
Output from each                Output Indicators:             Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Year-round safe, stable         Minimumwater depth             PMO to monitor routinely.     Frequency and severity o f
navigating conditions on eack available throughout defined                                   droughts remainmuch as in
waterway section.               waterway in dry season.                                      the past.
Ship locks allow rapid and      Passage through lock innot     Waterway bureaux to conduct Traffic volumes 'withproject'
orderly transit at all times.  more than minutes(one way)      sample surveys.               will grow at pace that implies
                                for 95% o f vessels in any                                   waiting times will begin to
                               month.                                                        build after 10-15 years use.
Power generating facilities arr output:                        Financial statements will     Frequency and severity o f
properly operating             Naji: 253 G W y r               Issess: (a) expected output;  droughts remain much as in
                               Xiniu: 45 G W y r               [b) actual output; (c) output the past.
                                Sale price: > RMB0.4kWh        $old;and (d) revenue.
                               Turbine availability: > 4,500   Production reports
                               hoursiyear (Le. 50% o f time)


Project Components I           Inputs: (budget for each        Project reports:              (from Components to
Sub-components:                component)                                                    Outputs)
Project waterways are          Budgets (incl. contingencies): Yavigation charts              Survey and updated
Jpgraded to:                                                                                 navigation charts are

You River: Class 111-1,000     You River: $15.2 m                                            completed. Navigable limits
                                                                                             are marked and waterway
:ons
                                                                                             category is reclassified.
Lao-Long-Hu: Class 111         Lao-Long-Hu: $25.5 m
.1,000 tons

3ei (North) River: Class V     Bei (North) River: $17.2 m
,300 tons
Lian River: Class VI -100
ons

Two project shiplocks are      Naji Nav. Complex: $84.8 m Monitoring report for              Lock operators are skilled,
:ompleted and operating                                        ihiplocks                     operate locks efficiently and
:fficiently, and power         Xiniu Nav. Complex: $34.9 m                                   fairly ('first come first
;enerating facilities are                                                                    served').
iroperly functioning and                                                                     Locks are maintained
naintained                                                                                   properly.
                                                                                             Staff trained to ensure lock
                                                                                             cycle time of not more than 9C
                                                                                             minutes (both ways).

                                                               'roduction report for power   No faulty construction, no
                                                               ;tations                      major flooding during
                                                                                             construction, no earthquakes.

                                                                                             Design and maintenance of
                                                                                             turbines are as expected.

                                                                                             Price o f electricity from
                                                                                             competing sources stays high.

                                                                                             Availability o f turbines
                                                                                             output: 90%



                                                          - 29 -

 CapacityBuilding             Guangxi: $16.2
                              Guangdong: $20.0
 LandAcquisition              $34.3

 Interest, Front-endFee       $10.8

                                       Project Performance Indicators

 Attainment o f Project     Performance Indicators      2003         2006
 Obiectives                                            Baseline
Improve market access Waterway traffic (000 tons):
inremoteinlandareas     (i)  Baise-Nanning                814          928     2,043    2,180
                        (ii) Shaoguan-Qingyuan          4,900        6,250     6,860    7,180
                        (iii)Lao-Long-Hu Waterway       1,200        2,000     8,600    9,300

Lower transport costs   Average barge size (dwt)
through use of larger   (i) Baise-Nanning                 97         101        141      152
vessels                 (ii)Shaoguan-Qingyuan            150         150        200      300
                        (iii)Lao-Long-Hu Waterway         80           80       300      500

Efficient generationof  Power plant output at
power to supplement     (i) Naji                                              194Gwh   253 Gwh
supply inremote areas   (ii)Xiniu                                             42 Gwh   45 Gwh

Vessel transit time     Transit time through lock
through lock            incl. waiting time (minutes)
(both ways)            (i)  Naji                                                90       90
                       (ii)Xituu                                                90       90

                                    Project Implementation Monitors

                             FY 2004       FY2005     FY 2006 FY 2007      FY 2008  7
                                                                                    FY2009
                             GX GD GX GD GX GD GX GD                      GX GD
     %ofcivil works           0     0     52      30 83    50   98    60  100 100 100 100
     completed

     % of equipment (by       0     0       0     10 51    70   98    90  100 100 100 100
     value) contracted

     % oftraining             6     10    26      25 66    50   96    75  100 100 100 100
     (person-months)
     completed


   I completed
     % of resettlement       100 20       00      50 .oo   80   100 90    100 100 100 100




                                                    -30-

                              Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                             CHINA: Fourth Inland Waterways Project

    The project involves the integrated development o f water resources to regulate water flows of
    rivers for flood control, improvement o f inland navigation and generation o f power inthe
    poorer areas o f the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region and Guangdong Province. In
    Guangxi, the project consists o f a dam, shiplock and hydro-electric power plant at Naji on the
    upperreaches ofthe You(Right) River and improvement ofthe navigational channel between
    Baise andNanning. InGuangdong, the project comprises improvementsto the navigation
    channels on the 15.5 kmlong Lao-Long-Hu Waterway and the middlereaches o f the Bei
    (North) River betweenthe cities o f Shaoguan and Qingyuan, a distance o f about 184 km, and
    a dam, power station and shiplock at Xiniu on the Lian River. On completion, the
    developments at Naji will generate some 250 GWho f power per year and enable 500-ton
    capacity vessels andbarge-pusher combinations to navigate all the way from Baise to
    Nanning, a distance of 357 km; the developments inGuangdong will enable 1,000-ton
    capacity vessels and barge-pusher combinations to use the Lao-Long-Hu Waterway,
    shortening their travel by an average of 70 km, 300-ton capacity vessels will be able to ply the
    middlereaches of the NorthRiver, andcities inthe north ofthe province will be supplied with
    about 45 GWhper year o f electric power. The hamessing o f the waters at Xiniu will also
    openup the LianRiver to navigation o f 100-ton capacity vessels on 181kmo f its main stream
    (out o f 275 km).

    The specifics o f the developments are as follows. Costs indicated for each component and
    sub-component include contingencies.

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$148.10million
                    -
   Guangxi

   A. NajiDamand Shiplock (US$84.8 million)

   Al. Constructionof shiplock, dam, power station, and construction or installation (as
   appropriate) o f auxilliav facilities (US$43.1 million):
   The power station and the shiplock will be near the right bank o f the river. The shiplock will
   be a Class I11inaccordance with the Chinese lock classification and capable o f
   accommodating vessels up to 1,000 ton capacity with an effective chamber o f 190 x 12 x
   3.5m. The dam will provide a weighted average head o f 11.9m (design head 10.5m). The
   power station will have an installedcapacity o f 57 MW with a mean annual generation o f 253
   GWh(net o f internal losses). The power plant will be connected to the gridfor Bake
   Prefecture by a 110-kV transformer for the sub-station at Honglingpo, a 110-kV line, and a
   220-kV transformer at Shapo.

   A2. Construction o f access roads and bridge (US$3.7 million):
   The access roads are about 9 kmlong; the bridge at the dam site connects bothriver banks.



                                                - 31 -

    A3. Reservoir banks protection (US$2.5 million)
    The reservoir bank protectionmainly includes the embankment and bank protection
    engineering, to ensure that farmlands and village settlements will not be inundated and that the
    slope will be stable. The areas for the embankment will be 65.5 ha., and the total lengtho f
    slope protection will be 11.7km.

    A.4 Purchase o fturbines, shiplock gates and other equipment (US$33.3 million)

    AS Site management complex (US$2.2 million)

    B. ChannelImprovement on You River betweenBake andNanningincluding installationof
    auxiliary facilities (US$15.2 million):
    The channel ofthe YouRiver betweenBaise andNanning, a distance o f 357 km, currently has
    a depth o f 1.0-1.2m. The channel will be improved to a depth o f 1.8m with dimensions o f 330
    x 50 x 1.8m downstream of Sanjiangkouand 330 x 30 x 1.8mupstreamo f Sanjiangkou.
    Within the reservoir, a double-line channel o f 330 x 50 x 2.lmwill be provided.

    C.    Institutional Strengthening, Consultant Services and Training (US$16.2 million)
    Capacity buildingwill be providedto Guangxi CommunicationsDepartment, including the
   Project Management Office and GDWCDCthrough technical assistance, training and study
   tours. Studies will be carried out on (a) the financing, management and operation o f
   integratedwaterways and power generation resources, and (b) the development and
   installation o f a comprehenbsive management information and control system.

   D. Resettlement and LandAcquisition (US$25.0 million)

   E.     Interest during construction (US$6.4 million) and front-end fee (US$ 0.45 million).

Project Component2 US$112.40million
                      -
   Guangdong

   A.    Lao-Long-Hu Waterway (US$25.5 million)

   A1. Channel Improvement on Lao-Long-Hu Waterway including construction or installation
   (as appropriate) o f auxiliary facilities (US$17.6 million). This comprises the deepening and
   widening o fthe 15.5-km longwaterway to 4m and 50mrespectively from the current depth of
    1.2-2.0m and width of 20-30m; construction o f a diversion channel at itsjunction with the
   Lao-lao-xi Waterway at Xiezhousha to shorten the channel andbank protection at the
   Longquanhai and Babao stretches. The deepening o fthe channel requires the removal by
   dredging of some 1.2 million cubic meters o f sediment and the blasting and removal o f the
   Xianglushi reefand seventeen other rocky spots. The widening o f the channel necessitatesthe
   replacement o f the dikes at the entrance o f the waterway into the Yingzhou River. The
   improvements will upgrade the channel from Class 6 to Class 3.




                                                 - 32 -

A2. Replacement o f Two Bridges over Lao-Long-Hu Waterway (US$7.9 million).
The two bridges at Lianyao and Longma will be replaced with new 1,18 lmand 1,483m long
bridges with a height clearance of 10mabove the channel's normal water level.

B. Middle Reacheso fNorthRiver(US$17.2 million)

B1. Channel ImprovementonNorthRiverbetween Shaoguanand Qingyuan including
installation of auxiliary facilities (US$17.2 million)
About 184 kmo f the channel between Shaoguanand Qingyuan will be improved to
accommodate 300-ton capacity vessels. Improvements will consist o f dredging mostly coarse
sand and small cobble, with placement of the dredged materials inoff-channel areas or as part
o f river-flow regulation spurs. About 1.2 million cubic metres of material will be dredged.

C.     XiniuNavigation Complex (US$34.0 million)

C1. Constructiono f a shiplock, dam, power station, access road, and auxilliary facilities
(US$22.3 million);
A dam 10.5mhighto regulate water depthto 2Sm, a shiplock and apower plant o f 10MW
will be built, including 2 substations to connect to the power gridat Yingde, as well as
reservoir embankment protection.

C2. Purchase o f turbines, lock gates and other equipment for the navigation complex
(US$l 1.7 million)

D. Upgrading ofNavigationalAids (US$O.9 million)

E.     Institutional Strengthening, Consultant Services and Training (US$18.7 million)
Capacity buildingwill be provided to Guangdong Communications Department, including the
Provincial Waterways Bureau and the Project Management Office, through technical
assistance, training and study tours. Studies will be carried out for (a) development and
implementation o f a waterway electronic mapping system, and (b) development and
implementation o f a shiplock management system.

F.     Acquisition o f Service Vessels, Service Vehicles and Surveying andMonitoring
Equipment (% million)
                1.3

G.     Land Acquisition (US$ 9.3 million)

H. Interestduringconstruction (US$3.5 million) andfront-end fee (US$ 0.46 million).




                                              - 33 -

                                   Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                              CHINA Fourth Inland Waterways Project




Suangxi
4. Construction o fNaji dam, power station and shiplock               19.51     19.00    38.51
B. Construction of access roads                                        3.33         0     3.33
2. Bankprotection (dam and reservoir)                                 2.23          0     2.33
3, Turbines, lock gates and other equipment                            6.74     23.02    29.76
3. Channel improvement, Baise-Nanning                                 13.56      1.42     13.56

q. Institution strengthening, consultants services, training          13.07      1.42     14.49
3. Resettlement and land acquisition                                  22.3 1        0    22.31
3, Site management complex                                             1.92         0      1.92

Total Baseline Cost (Guangxi)                                         82.67     43.44    126.11
PhysicalContingencies                                                 6.61       3.48     10.08
Price Contingencies                                                     3.3      1.74     5.05
                   Total Project Costs' (Guangxi)                     92.58     48.66    141.24
            Interestduring construction                               6.37          0     6.37
                          Front-endfee                                0.00       0.45     0.45
           Total Financing Required (Guangxi)                         98.95     49.11    148.06

hangdong
1.ChannelImprovement-Lao-Long-HuWaterway                               7.86      7.85     15.71
3 . Replacement of 2 bridges                                          3.51       3.51      7.02
:. Channel Improvement, NorthRiverMiddle Reaches                      7.66       7.67     15.33
I. ofXiniudam,powerstation,shiplockandaccess
    Construction                                                      9.96       9.95     19.91
oad
<.Turbines, lock gates and other equipment                             1.04      9.41     10.45
:. Upgrading navigationalaids                                         0.08       0.71      0.79
3. Computer hardware for electronic mapping, shiplock management       0.14      1.26      1.40
    andMIS
1.Servicevessels, service vehicles, survey, monitoring andancillary    0.12      1.08      1.20
    equipment                                                          5.01     11.68     16.69
I.Institutionalstrengthening,consultantservices,training
.Land acquisition                                                      8.28         0       8.2

Total Baseline Cost (Guangdong)                                       43.66     53.12     96.78
PhysicalContingencies                                                  3.49      4.25      7.74
Price Contingencies                                                    1.75      2.12      3.87
                   Total Project Costs (Guangdong)                    48.90     59.49    108.39
            Interestduring construction                                3.51         0      3.51
                         Front-endfee                                     0      0.46      0.46
          Total Financing Required (Guangdong)                        52.41     59.95    112.36




                                                        - 34 -

Civil Works                                                                            77.89              53.74             131.63
Goods                                                                                    9.09             39.75               48.84
Services                                                                               20.02              12.35               32.37
Training                                                                                 0.22              2.31                2.53
Resettlgrnent                                                                          34.26               0.00               34.26
                                                Total Project Costs'                 141.48             108.15             249.63
                                          Interestduring construction                   9.88                  0                9.88
                                                         Front-endfee                                      0.91                0.91
                                          Total Financing Required                   151.36             109.06             260.42


  I
   Identifiable taxes andduties are about SlOm andthe total project cost, net of taxes, is US$250m. Thus the Bank loan will finance
 36% of total project cost net of taxes.




                                                        - 35 -

                                Annex 4: Cost BenefitAnalysis Summary
                                 CHINA Fourth Inland Waterways Project

US$ million

          [For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]




                                                 I
 Benefits:

                                        300
 costs:                                 139

 Net Benefits:                          161                      -43

 IRR:                                    22                         2

Economic benefits from all components are valued at opportunity costs to society at large. Two o f the four project
components will generate no revenue and so their financial benefits are zero. For the others, the two
powerplantishiplock complexes, financial benefits count only revenues eamed assuming conservative tariffs
throughout the evalutionperiod. For the financial evaluation and fiscal impact see Annex 5.

I
 Ifthedifference betweenthe presentvalue offinancialandeconomic flows is large andcannot beexplainedby
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation o f the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value o f financial benefits is less
than that o f economic benefits because o f controls on electricity tariffs."

SummaryofBenefitsand Costs:

1.        Naji Damand Shiplock

The mainbenefit from the dams will be the electricity produced. The economic value o f the
incremental power to be generated by the project is estimated by reference to the next cheapest
alternative source, which would be a gas turbine generator --taking into account that the project
dams will generatemostlypeak-hour power. The gas turbine altemative i s provisionally estimated
at RMB 0.54 (6.5 U S cents) per kWh, being the sum o f the variable production cost (mostly fuel)
o f RMB 0.40 per kWh and a capacity charge o f about RMB 600 per kW per year, corresponding
to a capital cost o f about US$350 per kW.

The second (invalue) major quantifiedbenefit is the reduction intransport costs for existing flows
o f traffic on the river. This reductioni s expected to follow from (a) improved operating
conditions for existing vessels, allowing them to operate hlly loadedyear-round instead o f partly
loaded or immobilized during dry months, and (b) a shift to larger vessels, whose unit cost o f
carriage is far less. We assume, based on observations at Guigang Dam ineastern Guangxi (First
Inland Waterway Project) and Jiangsu (on-going Second Inland Waterway Project) that within
five years the mix of vessels will have charged markedly, lowering the unit cost to less than two
thirdsof its present level.



                                                         - 36 -

The thirdcategory o f benefits i s the consumer or producer surplus associated with traffic diverted
from road or rail, together with generated traffic: the difference betweenthe With project and
Without project traffic. The present waterway cannot handle more than about 0.9 milliontons per
year, whereas the improvedwaterway will be able to handle about 5.3 million tons per year.
(Theoretically the Naji shiplock could handle more, but congestion is likelyto discourage more
than this amount.) We lack information on traffic flows between specific origin-destination pairs
that today move by road or rail and are potentially divertible, and lack data on the costs, times and
other factors which determine the cargo owners choice o f mode. Thus, the estimates o f both
these two traffic categories rely on a considerable degree of conjecture. We have measuredthe
benefit to diverted and generated traffic by the reference to savings to the base traffic, applying
the "rule o f half'. Measuredon this basis, such traffic is not critical to the economic or financial
viability o f any component; more detailed data collection or analysis would not materially affect
the goho go evaluation.

According to the feasibility study, traffic i s expected to grow, inthe "with project" case, rapidly
duringthe 5-6 years after the project is completed, leadingto a doubling of tonnage between2006
and 2009, and a tripling from 2006 to 2012. Thereafter growth i s expected to ease off to a rate
matching the growth o f constructioninthe regional GDP, that is, 7% inthe second five years and
declining to 4% inthe second decade. Much o f the bulkcargo i s for construction purposes. Coal
i s the other maincomponent, and coal consumption i s expected to grow at a similar rate. The
Bank considers these growth rates reasonable and consistent with its broader macro-economic
forecasts.

The unit savings per ton carriedby river are estimated based on today's tariffs for trips from the
main loading points on the You River, such as Baise city and Pingguo (site o f a large aluminum
smelter) to the Pearl River Delta. The lowering o f these tariffs as cargo shifts to larger vessels
reflects synthesized estimates o f the operating costs o f the larger vessels, based on experience on
the lower Xi (West) River betweenNaming and Guangzhou. The tariffs are expected to drop
from an average o f $11per ton to an average o f $7.25.

Our best estimate o f the economic rate o f return (ER), assuming the above economic value for
electricity (6.5 cents) and the expected shift toward larger vessels, is 18%. Our analysis shows
that an acceptable ER will still be achieved ifthe shift to bigger vessels occurs as expected and the
average value o f electricity i s no higher than the present average tariff, that i s 4.0 cents. Ifthe
shift to biggervessels does not materialize at all, the project would need an average value o f
power o f about 5.3 cents to achieve an ER o f 12%.

2.    Lao-LonnHu Waterwav

The mainbenefit o fthe widening and deepening o fthe Lao-Long-Hu Waterway i s that traffic
originating inthe southwestern parts o f Guangdong province will be able to reach Hong Kong,
Shenzhen and other special industrial zones on the east side o f the Pearl River Delta muchmore
easily. Today such traffic moves either on larger vessels which have to go down the river to the
sea, along the coast off Macauand come back up the eastern waterways, or on small vessels



                                                  - 37 -

which go upriver, through some shiplocks open to vessels no larger than 100 ton capacity, and
across and down. The Lao-Long-Hu offers bothlarge and small vessels a safe and direct
short-cut that will allow the scale economies of large vessels without the longer distance and
dangers o f crossing open water. (These dangers are substantial duringthe summer monsoon
season.)

The short cut reduces the distance by about 70 km. The average tariff i s expected to fall by
about $1.80 per ton.

Traffic growth is expected to match the growth o f the industrial and construction parts o f regional
GDP insoutheastern Guangdong, that is, at 8-9% peryear over the next decade. The feasibility
study expects about 8 million tons per year to be diverted through the short-cut inthe year it
opens. About two-fifths o f this traffic will be incontainers. At this rate the volume usingthe
improved waterway will grow by about 50% to some 13 million tons by 2015, after which growth
will slow gradually to 3-4% by the second decadeafter opening. The Bank considers these
forecasts reasonable. The ERunder these assumptions will be about 50%, so highthat it would
still be acceptable if only 2 milliontons instead o f 8 millionwere diverted to the Lao-Long-Hu
and no growth occurred. (The same result would occur ifonly 4 milliontons diverted with no
growth and a unit saving o f $0.90, that is, halfthe best estimate.)

The Lao-Long-Hu's capacity will be sufficient to carry this traffic without significant congestion
duringthe 25-year evaluationperiod.

3.     Improvement of Middle Reaches o f NorthRiver

The mainbenefit will be reduced transport costs for base traffic (existing traffic and growth that i s
independent o f the river transport costs). The typical haul i s over about 150 km. As the average
vessel size grows from a capacity o f about 120 tons to about 300 tons, the average tariff i s
expected to decline from $3.60 per ton to $2.50 within five years o f the project's completion, a
decline o f about 30%. Without the project traffic is expected to grow at no more than about 3%
per year for the foreseeable future, whereas with the project it is expected to grow vigorously
duringthe first 6-8 years, doubling from about 5 million tons to nearly 10milliontons.
Thereafter, further growth will be constrained by limits on the channel's capacity (estimated at
about 11million tons).

As traffic reachesthis level, inthe second decade after the channel improvements are made, the
Feilaixia dam's shiplock will also begin to see growing congestion andwaiting. However, as
larger vessels and vessels with standard dimensions come to haul a larger part o f the traffic, they
will make more efficient use ofthe shiplock's capacity, so that the shiplock will not impose a
significant additional constraint on traffic. Inthe 'without project' case, traffic is not expected to
reach levels that would strain the channel's capacit) inthe foreseeable future.




                                                 - 38 -

The ER i s expected to be ample (about 24%), provided that the vessel owners respondto the
opportunity and invest inlarger vessels. Evenifthey do not at all, the ERwill still be satisfactory
(15%). Some four-fifths o f the benefits are expected to accrue to the base traffic, so'uncertainty
as to the extent o f generated traffic is not critical.

4.    XiniuDamandShiulock

The economic evaluation of the XiniuDam i s similar to that o f the Naji Dam, except inso far as
Xiniu's power production --constrained bythe smaller volume ofwater andlower head- will be
only a sixth o f Naji's. IWT savings will provide about 55% o f total benefits and the generation o f
electricity about 45%, assuming the same parameters for power pricing for Xiniu as for Naji. The
ERunder these assumptions will be about 13%.

The navigation benefits are basedon the assumption that the shift invessel size will bringa saving
o f about $1.20 per ton. The present constraints on total tonnage handledare the size o f the
largest vessel that canply up-river o f Xiniu town. It i s expected that the tonnage moving through
the shiplock will rise at an average o f 4% per year without the project. With the project tonnage
will grow strongly duringthe first six years, after which it too will be deterredby congestion on
the North River Middle Reaches and growing waiting times at Feilaixia. It i s expected to level off
at around 3.5 milliontons some time between2015 and 2020, that is, about a decade after
completion of the Xiniu dam.

Xiniuhas the lowest ERs ofthe four components becauseits power generating capacity will be
small andriver traffic volume i s also the smallest. Ifthe shift to larger vessels failed to
materialize, the returnwould be only about 7%. GDWBwould then be advised to make vigorous
efforts to stimulate the shift to larger vessels. Ifthe shift to larger vessels materializespromptly
and operation and maintenance costs of the complex are kept low (about 2% o f the construction
cost after the first five years), then the breakeven power price i s about 5.5 U S cents per kWh.

Main Assumptions:
see above

Sensitivity analysis/ Switching values of critical items:
see above




                                                   - 39 -

                                       Annex 5: Financial Summary
                               CHINA Fourth Inland Waterways Project
The FinancialObjectiveof the ProjectEntities

 1.    The main financial objective o f the two project entities is to generate sufficient funds to cover
operating andnon-operating expenses and maintenance and to repay project loans. The rationale for
development is the provision o f competitive services and greater efficiency inthe use o f the inland
waterways, not the financial return measured by the investment's financial internal rate o f retum (FIRR) or
its net present value (NPV). The project comprises developments located inremote areas inGuangxiand
Guangdong. The project will provide not only short-term benefit to the project areas (goods and services
purchased and employment inthe process o f construction) but also long-term benefits --a cheap transport
means for low-value cargoes, power andwater supplies, water and soil conservation, imgation, tax
contributions, etc.-- to those poor rural communities. To this end, the investment is financially justifiable if
cash inflow (revenue from power sales, budget appropriations and other sources o f income) is able to meet
cash outflow (operating cost andloan repayment).

PastandPresentFinancialPerformance

2.    The past and present financial performance o f the two project entities has been satisfactory.

3.    GXWCDC is a wholly owned company o fthe Guangxi Communications Department (GXCD). The
company currently owns and operates the Guipingnavigation complex (domestic funded, completed in
1990,) and the Guigang navigation complex (Bank-financed under the first InlandWaterways Project,
completed in2000). The company is financially sound andreceives only construction grants from the
Government. There is no subsidy for operation. The company meets all its financial obligations through
internally generated funds. Due to loan repayments, inthe three years 2000-02 the net surplus o f
GXWCDC progressively declined. However, the company inthe past had accumulated a large cash reserve
andadequateprovisions hadbeen set aside for depreciation. These willhelp to tide the company over the
difficult perioduntilthe situation improves around 2005. (Table 2.2, Sources and Applications o f Funds,
the project file). Despite its low net cash surplus, both the working ratio (operating efficiency o f the
company) andthe debt service coverage ratio (cash flow available to meet annual payments on debt) were
inthe comfortable range of 22.3 percent and 1.1, respectively, in2002. The current ratio (ability to pay
short-term debt) has been maintained at a level o f 1.6 or above since the company was formed in 1999,
although the debuequity ratio (financial leverage- the use o f borrowed money to enhance the retum on
owner's equity) last year exceeded 50 for the first time.

The details (Table 2.1. the project file), are summarized as follows:

GXWCDC: ConsolidatedIncome Statement(RMBmillion)




  Ratios:
     Working (%)                                 11          17         22
     Self financinge?)                            9           8         26
     Debtservice coverage                         1.9         1.2        1.1



                                                      - 4 0 -

 4.    GDWB hasonly one outstandingloan,which was obtainedfrom the Bankunderthe SecondInland
 Waterway Project in 1998. Repaymentofthe loanwill commence in2004. GDWB is a government entity
 inthe Guangdongprovince. In2000 and2001, the changes ofthe exogenousparameters(the
 implementation o fthe new budget systemandthe new tariffs) caused financial deficits ininlandwaterway
 operation. With strong support from the government, GDWB quickly revitalizedfrom the financial deficits
 through internal reforms by dissolving many unprofitable operating units. In2002, its total revenue
 exceededthe total expendtures, the net surplus was RMB21.5 million (or 6.7% o fthe total revenue). The
 detailed financial operation (2000-2002) is found inTable 1.1of the project file andis hghlightedas
 follows:

 GDWB: ConsolidatedIncomeStatement(RMB million)

                                           I   2000   I  2001    I  2002    I
I Total oDerating revenue                  I              211.2  I  322.1   I
I                                               183.1 I

I Operating costs, taxes and expenses      I    193.6     230.7  I  300.6   ]
  Net cash surplus                         I    -10.5 II  -19.5  I   21.5
  Ratios:
     Working (%)                           I    106   I   109    I   93
             I.I
     Self financing (%)                         -24       -13        12
     Debt service coverage                       --        --         --


Future Financial Performance

5.     BothNaji andXiniu are inremote areas where about 75 percent and65 percent, respectively, of the
electricity consumedis generatedfrom the outside. The shortage o f electricity inthe project areas will
provide a strong demand for the power producedby the two navigational complexes.

6.     The proposedNaji navigation complex is scheduledto be put into trial operation in2008 and into full
operation in2009. The company does not expect any cash shortageover the life o f the project (Table 2.3,
the project file).

7.     The proposedXiniunavigationcomplex is also scheduledto beput into the trial operation in2008
and into full operation in2009. Total revenue will be able to cover total operating costs, including
depreciation, but it will not be able to cover loanrepayments (estimated at RMB 6.7 million per year),
which will commence in2009 andwill be met by GDWB, which will pay both principal andinterest. Such
payments are within the financial capacity o f GDWB, as the sum of the principal and interest payments for
the two Bank's loans at RMB 95 million in2009 constitutes only about 13.2 percent o f total revenue o f
GDWB for that year (RMB 723 million). The financial riskinthe investment is minimalso far as the
availability of funds for loan repayments is concerned.

8.     GDWBmay face minor deficits duringthe constructionperiod(2004-2008) due to loanrepayments
for the current Bank loan and capital expenditure for construction duringthis period. The total deficit
amount, comparedto the total revenue, is relatively small (less than2 percent o f total revenue inany given
year). The deficits are not expectedto affect the day-to-day operation o f GDWB until2010.




                                                     -41 -

 Return on Investment

 9.    For the financial projection, the price o fpower andthe shiplock fee for the two proposed navigation
 complexes are calculated on the basis o f current power sale prices and shplock charges in each locality.
 Because o f the current rigidprice control, a conservative forecast is assumed (an increase o f 1.9 percent
 per year), which is lower thanthe estimated long-term domestic CPI growth rate o f 2.8% p.a. -that is, we
 assume tariffs will decline inreal terms. Although reforms inthe power sector are likely to take effect by
 2008, which will probably result inan increase inthe forecasted revenue due to the application o f peak
 hour pricing, for financial prudence a conservative approach with regard to the pricing o f power sales has
been taken here. The assumed cost o f financing at 5.1%, beingthe weighted average cost o f funds, may
 also be considered conservative, since current Bank loans carry a rate o f around 1.6%.

Power Sales Prices and Shiplock Charges
                    Power      I   Shiplockfee     I

     Xiniu I         0.40              0.30
/    Naii    I       0.35      I       0.40 / 1    I
/-1: Only appliesto the ships goingdownstream.

 10.   Onthe basis of the assumptions used(Table 1.4 and Table 2.4, the project file), the FIRR andNPV
o f the investments inthe navigational complexes are projected to be 1.8 percent and RMB-354 million,
respectively.

FIRRandNetPresent Value             I xlniu    1  Naji    I  Total
            FIRR(in %)              I  -6.6    I   3.4    I   1.8
I   NPValue (RMBm@5.1%) I              -214 I     -152    I  -354   I

 11. The above financial outcome shouldbe considered inthe context o fthe following:

       (a) N o power delivery network Neither of the proposed navigation complexes has its own power
           delivery network. The power mustbe sold to the local power company, which uses its power
           delivery network to reach endusers.

       (b) Low power prices and shiplock fee. Boththe powerprice andthe shiplock fee are currently
           strictly regulatedby the government. Any change inpower prices or shiplock fees may require
           approval from various government agencies, which is a very time-consuming process. For the
           proposed two navigation complexes, given (i)     the small scale o fpower generation, (ii) delivery
                                                                                                    no
           network, and (iii) locations inthe remote poor areas o f the two provinces, GXWCDC and
           GDWBhave limited leverage when negotiating the sale o fpower. However, it is physically
           feasible that one or the other could install transmission lines to major industrial consumers,
           allowing for price competition with the gridcompany and substantially strengthening their
           bargaining position.

       (c) Minimal subsidy Duringthe construction period, M O C and the local governments may provide
           some grants, mixedwith the loans, to GXWCDCandGDWB. After the completion o f the
           project, M O C will not provide any funds to meet operating costs, particularly inthe case o f
           GXWCDC.


                                                     - 42 -

       (d) Low profit margin. The inlandwaterways have always hadlow operating surpluses becauseof
           (i) pricecontrol,and(ii)chargesonthenavigationchannel. Incontrasttohighways,it
               rigid                       no
           is not technically feasible to collect channel fees from ships, other than at shiplocks. The FIRR
           o f an inlandwaterway project, consequently, i s invariably low.

Financial Risks

 12. This is the Bank's second loan for both Guangdong and Guangxi. Guangxidelivered the last project,
which is similar to this one, on time andwith about 10percent cost savings. For Guangdong, the on-going
inland waterway project has been progressing smoothly. With the experiences learned from the previous
projects and a good construction record, the chance o f a lengthy delay and a large cost overrun inthe
proposed project i s relatively modest.

Financial Performance Indicators

13.    To ensure that the project entities will have sufficient liquidity,assuranceshave been obtained that
beginning in2005, GDWB andGXWCDC will prepare annually a rolling five-year financial plan, which
willbe discussed with the Bank specifically with regards to the projectedtotal revenue and the projected
total expenditures.

14.   For financial monitoring, the operating ratio, self-financing ratio and debt service coverage ratio will
be used. Duringproject supervision, these indicators will be closely monitoredby the Bank. A variance o f
less than 15 percent from agreed financial forecasts will be acceptable. GXWCDCis required by covenant
to maintain an operating ratio of 73% and a debt sewice ratio of at least 1.2. Inthe event that the targets
are not achieved, GDWB and GXWCDC will be required to improve their financial performance by
increasing tariffs or reducing costs or capital expenditures.




                                                     - 43 -

                                Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                               CHINA Fourth Inland Waterways Project

Procurement
                                        ProcurementAssessments

1.       The Bank assessedthe procurement capacity o f the Guangdong Project Management
Office inApril, 2003, and o f the GuangxiPMO inJune and July, 2003. The Project Capacity
Assessment Report for each component i s inthe project files. The following summarizes their
fmdings.

Guangxi Component

2.       Guangxi Xijiang Waterway Construction and Development Company (GXWCDC), a
legally independent body wholly owned by the Guangxi government, will be the executing agency
for the Guangxi component. Guangxi Communications Department (GXCD) has established a
Project Management Office to manage the component overall. Construction o f the Naji
Navigation Complex will be managed by a Project Cons!mction Office established within
GXWCDC. The PMO staff are drawn from staff o f GXCD and GXWCDC and include
individuals who were involved incarrying out the first InlandWaterways Project (IWWI). The
overall performance on IWW1was acceptable.

                                                                   Actions



                                                                   None.
                                                                   Applicable laws stipulate that
Applicable to the Agency          procurement law.                 intemational financial institution
                                                                   requirements shall prevail when there
                                                                   are inconsistencies.
(iii)Acceptability o f Rules and  Deviations o f intemal NCB       Ieviations o f intemal N C B procedures
Procedures o f NCB                procedures from Bank NCB         vi11be waived in favor o f World Bank
                                  procedures.                      irocedures inthe procurement schedule
                                                                   o the Project Agreement.
(iv) Intemal procedures and       PMO andNaji Construction         Intemalprocurement procedures and
manuals                           Office are new organizations and manuals need to be formalized. The
                                  as such procedures and manuals   procurement procedures generated for
                                  have yet to be drafted.          IWWl may beusedas a basis.
(b) ProcurementCycle
Management
(i)Procurement Planning           PMOhas developed contingency     PMO is to follow Bank procedures for
                                  plans which include the          construction supervision services and
                                  financing o f construction       equipment.
                                  supervision services and
                                  equipment.
(ii)Preparation o f Bidding       Procurement activities have not  None.
Documents                         yet started. The PMO staff also
                                  were utilized for IWW1.




                                                     - 44 -

                                 Bank's new SBD for ICB              MOF shall prepare and issue a change
                                 procurement shall be used.          list to be included inthe bidding
                                                                     documents.
(iii)Management o f Bidding      The price o f bidding documents     PMO to ensure that bid document
Process from Advertisement to Bi for the Bank financed contracts     pricing shall cover only printing costs.
Opening                          o f IWWl were to cover only the
                                 cost o f printing, but it was found
                                 that higher price was charged.
(iv-vi) BidEvaluation, Contract  Acceptable.                         None.
Award, Preparation, and Signing
of the Contract
(vii) Contract Management        Large cost overruns were            None.
                                 experienced on non-Bank
                                 financed contracts o f IWWl due
                                 to poor design preparation.
                                 Bank-financed contracts were
                                 managedsuccessfully.
(viii) General Handling o f      Acceptable                          None.
Procurement Cycle
(c) Organizationand Functions
(i)Organizations ofProcurement   Acceptable                          None.
Lnit and Allocation of Functions
(ii)InternalSlanualsand          PMO and Naji Construction           Internal procurement procedures and
Instructions                     Office are new organizations and    manuals need to be formalized. The
                                 as such procedures and manuals      procurement procedures generated for
                                 have vet to be drafted.             IWWl mav be used as a basis.
(d) Support and Control
Systems
(i)Procurement Oversight and     Acceptable                          None.
Auditing
(ii) Technicaland
    Internal                     The Mechanic and Electrical         OPR recommends Min.Commerce to
Administrative Controls          Products ImportExport Dept in       perform post reviews rather than prior
                                 MinistryofCommerce is               reviews.
                                 responsible for monitoring o f
                                 ICB urocurement of eaubment.
(iii)CodeofProfessionalBehavio   Acceptable.                         None.
and Ethics
[iv) Special Anti-Corruption     Acceptable                          None.
[nitiatives
[e)Record Keeping                Acceutable                          None.
[f)Staffing                      Acceptable.                         All procurement staffwill be trained in
                                                                     the uudated Bank SBD and rmidelines.
[g) GeneralProcurement           Acceptable                          None.
Environment
:h) Private Sector Viewpoint     Autonomy of SOE's and the           None.
                                 consulting industIy is
                                 progressing.




                                                    -45-

GuangdongComponent

3.        Guangdong Provincial Waterways Bureau (GDWB) will be the executing agency for the
project. GDWB's existingProject Management Office (namely "World Bank Project Loan
Office, GDWB") i s responsible for implementingthe current Second InlandWaterways project
and will be responsible for executing IWW4. The PMO's overall performance on IWW2 has been
acceptable.

Procurement Capacity Element       Assessment                         Actions
(a) LegalAspects and
Procurement Practices
(i) CorporateStatus
    Legal                          Acceptable.                        None
(ii) andRegulations
     Laws                          Lack of consolidated national      Applicable laws stipulate that
Applicable to the Agency           procurement law.                   international financial institution
                                                                      requirements shall prevail when there
                                                                      are inconsistencies.
(iii) Acceptability o f Rules and  Deviations o f internalNCB         :1) Deviations o f internalNCB
Procedures o fNCB                  procedures from Bank NCB           xocedures will be waived in favor o f
                                   procedures.                        World Bank procedures inthe
                                                                      xocurement schedule to the Project
                                                                      9greement.
                                                                      (2) Postreviews shall be held.
                                                                      (3) Training shall be provided on the
                                                                      Bank's procurement guidelines.
(iv) Internal procedures and       Acceptable.                        None.
manuals
(b) Procurement Cycle
Management
(i) Procurement Planning           Training o f PMO staff during      Training will continue under IWW4.
                                   IWW2 was found to be useful.
                                   Selection of local design          Bank will not finance the preliminary
                                   institutes for the preliminary and and detailed engineering services.
                                   detail engineering didnot follow
                                   Bank procedures.
(ii) Preparation of Bidding        Procurementactivities have not     None.
Documents                          yet started. PMO performance
                                   on IWW2 has been acceptable.
                                   Bank's new SBD for ICB             MoFinance shall issue a change list to
                                   procurement shall be used.         be included inthe biddingdocuments.
(iii)Management o f Bidding        Acceptable                         None.
Process from Advertisement to Bid
Opening
(iv-vi) BidEvaluation, Contract    4cceptable                         None.
Award, Preparation, and Signing
of the Contract
(vii) Contract Management          Acceptable                         None.
(viii) General Handling o f        4cceptable                         None.
Procurement Cycle




                                                      -46 -

(c) Organization and Functions
(i) Organizations o f Procurement  Acceptable                         None.
UnitandAllocation ofFunctions
(ii)InternalManualsand             Acceptable                         None.
Instructions
(d) Support and Control Systems
(i)Procurement Oversight and       Acceptable                         None.

(ii) Intemal Technical and         E-procurement method is not in     Bank guidelines should be applied.
Administrative Controls            line with Bank guidelines.
(iii) ofProfessionalBehavior Acceptable.
     Code                                                             None.
andEthics
(iv) Special Anti-Comption         Acceptable                         None.
Initiatives
(e) Record Keeping                 Acceptable                         None.
(0Staffing                         PMO staff are acceptable. Staff    All procurement staff will be trained in
                                   inthe design institutionslack      the updated Bank SBD and guidelines.
                                   experience in Bank-financed
                                  1procurement.
(g) General Procurement          I Acceptable                        1None
Environment
(h)Private Sector Viewpoint        Autonomy o f SOE's and the         None
                                   consulting industry is
                                   progressing.


                                      ProcurementArrangements

4.      Procurement will be carried out as shown inTables A, B, C and D. Procurement o f works
and goods fmanced by the Bankloan will follow the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement
under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" ( January 1995,revised January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999)and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002)
will be applicable for the selection ofconsultants. The Bank-approvedChinese Model Bidding
Documents (MBD) will be adopted for ICB andNCB activities for goods and works. All new
revisions to the Bank standard biddingdocuments since 1997 will be incorporatedinto the
existing MBDs. The World Bank standard biddingdocuments will be used when an applicable
MBDis not available. Also, as indicatedinthe Bank's 2003 overall procurement review of China,
the harmonizedStandard BiddingDocuments may be used inthis project when available.
Selection o f consultants will use the Standard Request for Proposals-Selection o f Consultants
(July 1997,revisedApril 1998, July 1999 and March 2002).

5.     Works (US$ 131.62 m, including contingencies). Civil works costing US$15 million and
above per contract will be procuredthrough international competitive bidding(ICB). Four
contracts, one inGuangxi and three inGuangdong, with an estimated aggregate value o f
US$95.23 million, will be awarded under this procedure (see Tables C1 and C2).
Pre-qualificationo f bidderswill be requiredand invitations for pre-qualification will be advertised
inUNDevelopmentBusiness, DevelopmentGateway andat least two newspapers ofnational
circulation inChina. Contracts with an estimated value o f less than US$15million, of which there



                                                    - 47 -

are three (two inGuangdong and one inGuangxi --see Tables C1 and C2) with an estimated
aggregate value o f US$7.46 m, will be awarded following national competitive procedures
(NCB), subject to modification inaccordancewith standardprovisions applied by the Bank for
NCB inChina (see below). Constructionofthe two bridges at Lianyao and Longma in
Guangdong estimated at $7.86 mwill be undertaken by the local government. The access road
and bridge,channel improvement works and the site management complex inGuangxi amounting
to a total contract value o f US$21.07mwill be financed locally andtheir procurement will follow
localprocurement procedures.

3.    Equipment(US$48.85 mincluding contingencies). Thirteen contracts with an aggregate
value o f US$42.63 mwill be awarded following ICBprocedure (Tables B1and B2). Specific
procurement notices will be published through the same channels as cited inthe previous
paragraph; a general procurementnotice was already publishedinJuly 2003. Three contracts,
each o f less than $500,000, will be awarded through NCB. The aggregate value o f NCB
contracts i s estimated at $1.18 m. Other items or groups o f items o f small pieces o f equipment
readily available off the shelf estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract may be procured
following national shopping procedure on the basis of a comparison o f price quotations solicited
from at least three suppliers. The aggregatevalue o f items to be procured through national
shoppingprocedure is estimated at US$0.56 m.

4.    Consultants (US$34.92 mincluding contingencies). All consultant services financed bythe
Bank will be procured according to the Bank's guidelines on the selection and employment o f
consultants and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The Standard Request for
Proposals will be used. Consultant services that are estimated to cost less than $100,000 per
contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured by Consultants' Qualifications (CQ)
accordingto paras 3.1 and 3.7 o f the guidelines. Bank financing o f consultant services will
amount to US$4.47 million. Details of staff training, technical assistance and outline terms of
references for stud.ies are found inthe project file.

5.    ProcurementScheduling. The mainmilestoneevents for procurement are shown inTables
B3 and B 4 below. A more detailed Gantt chart prepared by the PMO forms part o f each Project
ImplementationPlan and i s available inthe project file.




                                                -48-

  Procurement methods (Table A)


                      Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                     (US$ million equivalent)




                                   (45.05)            (3.60)      (0.00)     (0.00)   (48.65)
2. Goods                            42.63              1.18        0.56      4.48       48.85
                                   (35.63)            (0.86)      (0.48)     (0.00)    (3 6.97)
3. Services                         0.00               0.00        5.91      29.01      34.92
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (4.47)     (0.00)     (4.47)
4. Resettlement                     0.00               0.00        0.00      34.26      34.26
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Interest during                  0.00               0.00        0.00      9.88        9.88
/construction                  I                I              I           I         I           I
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Front-end fee                    0.00               0.00        0.91      0.00        0.91
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.91)     (0.00)     (0.91)
   Total                           137.86              8.64        7.38      106.56    260.44
                                   (80.68)            (4.46)      (5.86)     (0.00)    (91.00)




                                             -49-

                       Table AI: ConsultantSelection Arrangements (optional)
                                         (US$ million equivalent)




'' Includingcontingencies
           Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                 QBS = Quality-based Selection
                 SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                 LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                 CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                 Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
                 Commercial Practices, etc.
                 N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                 Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.




                                                   - 50 -

Prior reviewthresholds (Table B)
5,    Prior review procedures will be applied on:

  (a) civil works contracts with an estimated value of US$ 5 million or more;
  (b) contracts for the supply of equipment expected to cost US$ 0.5 millionor more;
  (c) consultant contracts with a value o f US$ 0.3 million or more for firms and US$ 50,000 or
      more for individuals.

The first contract inGuangxi andthe first contract inGuangdongprocured through each
procurement method o f NCB, NS, QCBS and CQ will also require Bank's prior review. Prior
review will be applicable in99% of the total contract value of works and 99% o f the aggregate
contract value o f goods financed by the Bank.

6.    Contracts below the above limits will be subject to post review by the Bank, ina sampling
ratio o f 1to 5.

7.    The threshold ceiling for short-listing o f national consultants for each of Guangxi and
Guangdong shall be US$300,000

                 Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'




2. Goods                              500                       ICB, NCB                  17 contracts(44.0)

3. Services(firms)                    300                      QCBS, CQ                    5 contracts (5.2)
            (individuals)               100                        CQ                      1contract (0.2)

                Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    150.9
                        Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:         Average
      Frequencyof procurementsupervision missionsproposed: Oneevery 6 months
                                                                     (includes special procurement supervisionfor
                                                                     post-reviewlaudits)




                                                 - 51 -

                           Table B1:Procurement Packaging Guangxi  --

       No.                         Contract                             Procure- Estimated  Bank
                                                                         ment    Contract Financing
                                                                        Method    Value    (US$ m)

           ICiviIworks                                                                      20.11
       W1 /Constructiono fNajiNavigation Complex comprising            1 I C B     43.14     19.00
            dam, power house,-shiplock, & dam &ea bankprotection
       W2 Bank protection works for reservoir area                       NCB         2.49     1.11
       W3 IChannel imurovement works including navigational aids       I NBF       15.19
       W4 Access roads                                                   NBF         3.73
       W5 Site management complex (including drainage)                   NBF         2.15
           Equipmentand installation                                               33.34    23.02
       G1 Power station equipment (including turbines, generators        I C B     16.64     13.36
           and control systems)
       G2 Monitoring system (incl. installation) for power station,      ICB         1.66     1.33
           dam and shiplock
       G3 Shiplock hoist                                                 I C B       1.25     1.oo
       G4 Metal structures for dam andpower station                      ICB         2.95    2.37
       G5 Hoists for dam and power station                               I C B       1.46     1.17
       G6 Power transmission line works                                  ICB         1.32     1.05
       G7 Transformers for power station, shiplock anddam                ICB         0.74    0.59
       G8 Electricalequipment for power station, shiplock and dam        ICB         1.98     1.59
       G9 Cranes                                                         NCB         0.62    0.36
       310 Miscellaneous equipment (tools, instruments, office            N S        0.25    0.20
           equipment, etc.)
       311Metal structures for shiplock                                  NBF         0.75
       312Temporary power lines                                          NBF         0.38
       313Auxiliaryequipment for power station and dam                   NBF         2.93
       314Auxiliary equipment for shiplock                               NBF         0.42
           ConsultantServices                                                      16.22      1.42
       T1 Management o fintegratedwater resources, etc.                  QCBS        0.80     0.20
       T2 /Managementinformationsystem                                 1 QCBS        0.67     0.18
       T3 ITraining                                                 I     co         1.04     1.04
                                                                                     7.65
                                                                                     0.94
       T6 /Projectmanagement cost                                                    5.12
           lother                                                                  24.99
       01 Landacquisition                                                NBF       14.50
       02 Resettlement compensation                                      NBF       10.49
                        TotalCost (incl. contingencies)                           141.25     44.55   1
Costs include 12% contingencies




                                                   - 52 -

                   Table B2: Procurement Packaging       -- Guangdong
__
No.                         Contract                          Procure-    Estimated   Bank
                                                               ment       contract  financing
                                                              Method       value    (US$m)
                                                                          (US$ m)
     3vil Works                                                             64.93     28.53
_.
w1 JonstructionofXiniudam, shiplock andpowerhouse,and           ICB          18.52     9.26
-    ransmission lines

-
w 2 >ao-Long-Hu channelregulation works                         ICB          17.60     8.80
w 3 qorth Riverrermlation works                             I   ICB     I    15.97 1   7.99

-
w 4 kcess road and site managementcomulex                   I  NCB      1     3.77 1   1.89
-
w 5 rerminals and maintenancestations onNorthRiver             NCB            1.20     0.60

-
W6 teplacement o f Lianyao andLongmabridges                    NBF            7.86
       ~   ~~
     2quipment                                                              15.50     13.95
G1 Yectronic and mechanical equipment for Xiniu                 ICB           8.37     7.53
     qavigation Complex
G2 rurbines, metal structures, operation machinery and other    ICB           3.34     3.00
    lncillary equipment for XiniuNavigationComplex
G3 jervice vessels                                              ICB           1.03     0.93

-
G4 d1S hardware                                                 ICB           1.01     0.9 1
-
G5 qavigational aids                                            ICB           0.88     0.80

-
G6 lardware for electronic map                                 NCB            0.34     0.30
G7 lardware for shiulock management svstem                     NCB            0.22     0.20
G8 ;urvev, monitoringand ancillary equiument                 1  NS       1    0.31 I   0.28

     2onsultant Services                                                    18.70      3.05
T1 :onstruction suuervision over all civil works               OCBS           1.18     1.06

-
T2 Ievelopment o f Waterway Electronic Mapping System          QCBS           0.45     0.40

-
T3 hpervision over equipment for Xiniucomponent                QCBS           0.22     0.20

-
T4 Ievelonment o f shidock managementsvstem                    OCBS           0.11     0.10
T5 :onsultant service for Xiniucomuonent                    I   CO       I    0.17 I   0.15    1
-
T6 herseas training                                             CQ            1.27     1.14

-
T7 Iomestic training                                           NBF            0.22

-
T8 Iesignand engineering                                       NBF            6.42
T9 'roject Management and other fees                           NBF            8.66
     Ither                                                              1
-
01 .and acquisition                                            NBF            9.27
                                                                        1
-                Total Cost (incl. contingencies)                          108.39     45.54
nclu e 12% contingencies




                                           - 53 -

                          Table B3: ProcurementSchedule         -- Guangxi

No.  Descriptionof contract                                                     Contract   Comple-
                                                                                 signing     tion
                                          method
G10 Miscellaneous equipment        0.25                  Ask price to three     0812012004 0612012007
    (for tools, instruments,                            potential suppliers:

-   office equipment, etc.)                                          04
w1  Construction o f Naji                                           0613012004  0913012004 1212012008
    Navigation Complex (dam,
    power house, ship lock &
    dam area bank protection)
G2  Monitoring system for                                           0810112004  1113012004 0411512008
    dam, power station and
-   shiplock
G8  Electrical equipment for                                        0612012005  10/20/2005 1212012006
    dam, power station and
    shiplock                                ;E;
-
G3  Shiplock hoist                       j             04 20 2005   0612012005  10 20 2005 12'20 2006
                                                      ~



G1  Power station equipment              1             07 30 2004    1013012004 01/2012005 02/01 2007
    (incl. turbines, generators                                                            (1st unit )
    and control systems)                   ';'c"B"    ~




-
G9  Cranes                                             1211512004   0211512005  0612012005 0312012006
                                                      ~


G4  Metal structures for dam                           0311012005   0511012005  0912012005 0812012006
    andpower house
G5  Hoists for dam and power       1.46    ICB         1211512004   0211512005  0612012005 0312012006
-   house
w 2 Reservoir area protection      2.49    NCB         1211012004   0312012005  0713Ol2005 1212012008
-   works
G7  Transformers for dam,          0.74    ICB         0711012005   0911Ol2005  0111Ol2006 0612012007
-   Powemlant & shidock
G6  Power transmission line        1.32    ICB         0311Ol2006   0511012006  07/10/2006 0612012007
-   works
T 1 Management o f integrated      0.80    QCBS
-   water resources etc.
T 2 Management information         0.67    QCBS

-   system
T 3 Overseas training              1.04     co




                                              - 54 -

Table B4: Procurement Schedule Guangdong
                              --




                  - 55 -

                               Proceduresfor NationalCompetitive Bidding

         The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Biddingunder Part C.1o f this Section
shall be those set forth inthe Law on Tendering and Biddingo f the People's Republic o f Chma
promulgated by Order No. 21 o f the President o f the People's Republic o f China on August 30, 1999, with
the following clarifications required for compliance with the Guidelines:

    (i)Allinvitationstoprequalifyortobidshallbeadvertisedinanewspaperofnationalcirculationin
         China and such advertisement shall be made insufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain
         prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit their responses. Inany event, a
         minimumo fthirty (30) days shallbe givento biddersbetweenthe date o fadvertisement insuch
         newspaper and the deadline for submission o f bids, and the advertisement andbiddingdocuments
         shall specify the deadline for such submission.

    (ii)Qualificationrequirementsofbiddersandthemethodofevaluatingthequalificationofeachbidder
         shall be specified indetail inthe biddingdocuments.

    (iii) biddersshallberequiredtoprovidesecurityinanamountsufficienttoprotecttheBorrower,in
         All
         case o f breach o f contract by the contractor, and the biddingdocuments shall specify the required
         form and amount o f such security.

    (iv) The time for opening o fall bidsshall be the same as the deadline for receipt o f suchbids.

    (v) All bids shall be openedinpublic; all bidders shall be affordedan opportunity to bepresent (either
         inperson or through their representatives) at the time o fbidopening, butbidders shall not be
         required to be present at the bidopening.

    (vi) Nobidmay be rejected solely on the basis that the bidprice falls outside any standard contract
         estimate, or margin or bracket o f average bids established by the Borrower.

   (vii) Eachcontract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who
         meets the appropriate standards o f capability andresources and whose bidhas been determined (A)
         to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost.
         The winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition o f award, to undertake responsibilities for
         work not stipulated inthe bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bidas originally
         submitted.

   (viii)Eachcontract financed with the proceeds o fthe Loan shall provide that the suppliers and
         contractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts andrecords relating to
         the performance o f the contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors
         appointed by the Bank.


"Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment o f Agency's Capacity to Implement
 Procurement" and contact the RegionalProcurement Adviser for guidance.




                                                      - 56 -

           Annex 6(B): Financial Managementand DisbursementArrangements
                           CHINA: Fourth inlandWaterways Project

Financial Management
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagement Assessment
    The project team conducted an assessment o f the adequacy of the project financial
   management system. It concluded that the project meets minimumBank financial
   management requirements, as stipulated inBPiOP 10.02. Inthe team's opinion, the project
   will have inplace an adequateproject financial management system that canprovide, with
   reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status o f the project inthe
   reporting format agreedwith the project and as requiredby the Bank.

   The loan will be disbursed usingtraditional disbursement techniques and not based on project
   management reports, inaccordance with the agreement betweenthe Bank and MOF.

   No outstanding audits or audit issues exist with any o f the implementing agencies involvedin
   the proposedproject. The task team however will continue to be attentive to financial
   management matters and audit covenants duringproject supervisions.

   Country Issues. To date, no country financial administration assessment (CFAA) has been
   performed for China, though dialogue with the Government o f China inrespect o f the CFAA
   exercise is currently underway. The plannedapproach to CFAA i s to buildon the Asian
   Development Bank's study o f Financial Management and Governance Issues inChina in2000,
   and analyze areas that have changed rapidly inthe past few years or that deserve further
   scrutiny and over time cover all major areas usually assessed as part o f a full CFAA exercise.
   Currently, for reference purpose, the Bank relies on study work conductedby the Asian
   Development Bank.

   Nevertheless, basedon observations o f developments inthe areas o f public expenditures,
   accounting and auditing, and Bank experience with China projects for the past few years, we
   note that substantial achievement has beenmade inthe above areas and further improvement
   i s expected inthe next few years. As the economic reformprogram further unfolds, the
   Government of China has come to realize the importance o f establishing and maintaining an
   efficient and effective market mechanism to ensure transparency and accountability, and
   minimizepotential fraud or corruption.

   Due to a rather unique arrangement by the Government o f China, the funding o f
   Bank-supportedprojects --and inparticular the Bank loans-- i s controlled and monitored by
   MOF and its extension, i.e. finance bureaus at provincial, municipal/prefecture and county
   level. However, project activities are usually carried out by implementing agencies o f a
   specific industryor sector. The above arrangement then usually requires more and closer
   coordination on the project, as the multi-level management o f the funding and implementation
   mechanismsometimes works to the detriment o f smooth project implementation.




                                               - 57 -

Strengths and Weaknesses. (i) Strengths: The proposed project is the second Bankproject
to be implementedinboth Guangxi and Guangdong. Project personnel identified to fill
financial or accountingpositions have relevant adequatework experience and educational
background. Inaddition, the project management offices (PMOs) for the proposedproject
have accumulated extensive experience from the prior projects (Le. (first) InlandWaterways
for Guangxi and IWW2 for Guangdong) and also will benefit from the rich experience the
Guangxi and Guangdong Finance Bureaus have hadwith other Bank projects. The prior
records indicate that bothPMOs and provincial/regional Finance Bureaus have been found
satisfactory inrespect o f project financial management and withdrawal applications.

fii) Weaknesses: The two members of the Guangdong PMO staff identified to assume
financial and accounting work for the project hadrelevant academic background and work
experience, but they hadnot received training on Bank-financed projects. They missedthe
launch workshop for the Second InlandWaterways project, becausethey were not hireduntil
implementationof the project hadbegan and initial expenditures were incurred. Therefore,
training inproject financial management and disbursement was provided by Guangdong
Finance Bureau and the PMO after the present project was appraised. Inaddition, one more
staff member was hired to strengthen the team. The Bank will provide guidance as and when
needed throughout project implementation.

ImplementingEntities. The implementingagenciesofthe project are the GuangxiXijiang
Waterway Construction & Development Co. (GXWCDC) for project components inthe
Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region and Guangdong Waterway Bureau (GDWB) for
project components inGuangdong Province. GXWCDC i s an independent legal entity
established andwholly owned by Guangxi for the purpose o f developing and managing the
region's network o f inland waterways and currently manages andoperates the navigation
complexes at Guipingand Guigang. GDWB i s a line department o f the GuangdongProvincial
government with direct responsibility for the province's inland waterway andreports to the
Guangdong Communications Department. Eachexecuting agency has set up a PMO to
managepreparationand implementationo f the project. Eachhas a full-time team o f technical
staff with prior experience inimplementing a World Bankproject. The GuangxiPMO brings
together many staff who worked on IWW1, completed in2001. The Guangdong PMO has
managed successfully its component o f the on-going Second Project.

The ForeignFunds Divisiono fthe finance bureaus inthe Projectprovinces will also play a
major role inproject implementation, including overall monitoring, financing arrangements,
procurement, financial management, etc. The provincial finance bureaus will also be
responsible for maintaining, monitoring and reconcilingthe special accounts to be established
for the project, and reviewing, verifying, consolidating and approving withdrawal applications
prepared by the respective PMOs before submittingthem to the Bank for disbursement
processing. EachForeign Funds Division has hadprior experience with Bank projects and i s
familiar with Bank disbursement procedures. Consequently, for smooth and successful project
implementation, close cooperationand coordination betweenfinance bureaus and PMOs i s
important.




                                             - 58 -

FundsFlow. (0Bankfunds: Bank loanproceeds ingeneral will flow from the Bankto the
provincialfmance bureaus (PFB) where the special accounts will be set up, project
implementing agencies, and finally to contractors or suppliers. The Bank loan will be signed
with the People's Republic of Chinathrough its Ministry ofFinance (MOF), and on-lending
agreements will be signed between MOF and the Government o f Guangxi and Guangdong
through their respective PFBs, and between the PFBs and the implementing agencies.
(io Counterpartfunds: The counterpart funds for Guangxi regionwill come from a local
commercial bank loan and self-financing besides appropriations by the Ministry o f
Communications (MOC) and Guangxi Communications Department (GXCD). For
Guangdong province counterpart funds will come from appropriations by MOC and
Guangdong Communications Department (GDCD). The counterpart funds will be
contributed by MOC andGXCD and GDCD directly to the project.

Staffing.Adequate project accounting staff with educationalbackground andwork
experience commensurate with the work they are expected to perform i s one o f the factors
critical to successful implementationo f project financial management. For the financial/
accounting staff already identified for the project, the Bank task team notes that, based on
discussions, observationand review o f educational background and work experience, they are
qualified and appropriate for the positions and work they are expected to perform.

To strengthen financial management capacity and achieve consistent quality o f accounting
work, at the Bank'srequest each PMO prepared a project financial management manual. It
provides detailed guidelines on financial management, internal controls, accounting
procedures, fundand asset management and withdrawal application procedures. Finalized
versions o f these manuals acceptable to the Bank were received inFebruary 2004.

AccountingPolicies andProcedures. The administration, accounting andreporting o fthe
project will be set up inaccordancewith the following regulations/circulars issued by MOF:

a. Inline with other Bank-financedprojects inChina, the Project will use the "Temporary
    Regulations on Financial and Accounting Management for Projects Financedbythe World
    Bank" (Circular #127 issued in 1993) by MOF as a basis for bookkeeping and preparation
    of project financial statements and management reports. Accrual accounting and double
    entry bookkeeping will be adopted by the Project.

b. Circular #12: "Regulation for the Submission o fWithdrawal Applications" issued in
    December 1996 by MOF - includes detailedprocedures for preparing and submitting
    withdrawal applications and retentiono f supporting documentation.

C.  Circular #13: "Accounting Regulations for World Bank Financed Projects" issued in
    January 2000 by MOF. The circular provides in-depth instructions on the accounting
    treatment o fproject activities and covers the following:
   0    Chart o f accounts
   0    Detailed accounting instructions for each project account
   0    Standard set o fproject financial statements
   0    Instructions on the preparation o fproject financial statements



                                            - 59 -

Both circular #127 and #13 are simplified versions o f the Accounting Standards for
State-owned, Infrastructure Oriented Projects (the "Standards"), taking into consideration the
uniquecharacteristics ofBankprojects. The Standardsaremodeledafter the principles of
InternationalAccounting Standards andprovide detailed guidelines to accounting for activities
o f Bank-financed projects.

Each PMO will manage, monitor and maintain accounting records on the project components
for which it is responsible. They will retain original supporting documents for project
activities. Inaddition, they will prepare project financial statements and submit them to the
Bank for review and comments on a regular basis.

InternalAudit. The intemal department under GXWCDC will performinternal audits for
the Guangxi component. The task team will evaluate work performedby such internal
auditors and determine the degree o f reliance o f their work inrespect o f project
implementation and Bank supervision missions. As for Guangdong, an internal audit
department exists but they have no audit arrangement for Bankprojects, so the PMO and the
finance bureau will carry out regular supervision.

Reportingand Monitoringand Formatof FinancialStatements. The format and content
o f the following project financial statements constitutes the standard project reporting
package agreedto between the Bank and MOF, andhave been discussed and agreed with all
parties concemed. Inline with the newly issued Financial Monitoring Report (FMR)
guidelines, the unauditedproject consolidated financial statements will be submitted as part o f
FMRto the Bank ona semi-annual basis (prior to August 15 andFebruary 15 o fthe following
year), and include the following four statements:

    0    Balance Sheet;
         Summary o f Sources and Uses o f Funds by Project Component;
    0    Statement o f Implementationo f LoanAgreement; and
    0    Statement o f Special Account

But upon operation, the following unaudited financial statements from GuangxiXijiang
Waterway Construction and Development Co. will be requiredto be submitted on a
semi-annual basis:

         Balance Sheet
         Income Statement
    0    Statement o f Cash Flow

InformationSystems. A computerizedfinancialmanagement system is inplace inboth
PMOS,and a widely accepted accounting software, Yongyou, which has beenused in
previous Bank projects (First and Second Inland Waterway Projects) and proved to be
adequate for their financiaUaccounting work and will continue to be used inthe proposed
Fourth Project, as well to keep track o f project activities. Yongyou is a mature financial
software widely used inChina's business community, and i s considered appropriate for the




                                             - 60 -

   financial and accountingwork o f the project. However, the task team will closely monitor
   accounting work to ensure proper recording andreporting.

   Supervision Plan. For the initial implementationstage, more frequent supervisionmissions
   (such as twice a year) should be carried out to have better coverage and ensure that project
   accounts are properly set up, procurement guildelines are followed, and expenditures incurred
   are eligible and well supported. More detailed reviews at the initial implementationphase can
   also help ensure that the financial management system i s functioning as intendedand financial
   statements are prepared inline with stipulated format and content. The mission frequency can
   then be subsequently reduced from the mid-point to the normal level (once a year).
   Furthermore, to maximize effectiveness and efficiency, procurementand FMDisbursement
   specialists shouldjointly participate insupervision missions for procurement and SOEs ex post
   reviews.

2. Audit Arrangements
   The Bankrequires that project financial statements be audited inaccordance with standards
   acceptable to the Bank. Inline with other Bank-financed projects inChina, the project will be
   audited inaccordance with the Government Auditing Standards o f the People's Republic of
   China (1997 edition). The Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous RegionAudit Bureau and
   Guangdong Provincial Audit Bureau have been identified as the auditors for the Project.
   Annual audit reports will be issued inthe name o fprovincialhegional audit bureaus and
   subject to reviews by the China NationalAudit Office (CNAO). The Bank currently accepts
   audit reports issued by CNAO or provinciaVregiona1 audit bureaus for which CNAO is
   ultimately responsible.

   Audit reports on annualproject financial statementsof eachproject provinces will be due to
   the Bank within 6 months of the end of each calendar year.

3. DisbursementArrangements
   (a) The Bank loanwill be disbursedagainst (i)    50 percent o f the expenditures for civil works;
   (ii) percentoftheforeignexpendituresfordirectlyimportedequipmentandmaterials
       100
   quoted on a CIF basis; (iii) 100percent o f expenditures ex-factory for locallymanufactured
   goods; (iv) 75 percent of other local expenditures; and (v) 91percent o f the expenditures for
   consulting services, and 100percent for study tours and training.

   (b) The estimated annual disbursement schedule is shown inthe Project Financing Data on
   page 2 and detailed inthe PIPS(available inthe project file). It i s based on the project
   implementation schedule and i s inline with Bank experience o fpumped storage power
   projects. Disbursements are expected to be completed in6 years from 2004 to 2009. The
   project is expected to completed by July 31,2009 and the loan closing date is January 31,
   2010.

   (c) Retroactive financing inan aggregate amount o f US$9 million would be provided for
   anticipated expenditures (construction equipment, consulting services and training) incurred
   after September 1, 2003 and before signing o f the loan.

   (d) Guangxi and Guangdong will eachhave a special account. The authorized allocation for


                                               - 61 -

    each account will start at $2 millionandwill be raised to $3 million,once disbursements
    from the correspondingpart ofthe loanexceed $10 million.

 Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)

                                Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds

          Expenditure Category           I Amount  in US$millionI       Financing Percentage
/PartA. Guanexi                          I                      I                                       I
ICivil works                                       18.08                           50
 Goods                                            20.69           100(foreign) / 100 (local ex-factory)
                                                                           / 75 (other local)
 Consultants services                              0.44                           91
 Training                                          0.84                           100
 Part B. Guangdong                                 0.00
 Civil works                                      25.66                           50
 Goods                                             12.54          100(foreign) / 100 (local ex-factory)
                                                                           / 75 (other local)
 Consultant services                                1.72                           91
 Training                                          1.02                           100
 Unallocated                                       9.10

 Total Project Costs with Bank                    90.09
 Financing
             Interest during construction          0.00
I                            Front-endfeeI         0.91         I                                       I
 Total                                            91.OO




                                               - 62 -

                              Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
                           CHINA: Fourth Inland Waterways Project



ITime taken to prepare the project (months)     I                               I        16            I
/FirstBank mission (identification)             I                               I       03/01/2002     I
 Appraisal mission departure                             0910112003                     08/25/2003
 Negotiations                                             12/08/2003                     1211112003
 Planned Date of Effectiveness                           07/01/2004


Prepared by:
Guangxi Communications Department andGuangdong Waterways Bureau


Preparation assistance:
See Annex 8.

Bank staff who worked on the project included:
I        Name                                            Speciality
 Graham Smith                            Lead Transport Economist
 John Scales                             Senior Transport Specialist
 Robin Carmthers                         Lead Transport Economist
 Naoya Tsukamoto                         Senior Environmental Specialist
 Chaohua Zhang                           Senior Social Sector Specialist
 Kekchoo Chung                           Senior Port and Waterway Specialist, Consultant
 Toshiro Tsutsumi                        Senior Ports Engineer
 Richard Scheiner                        Senior Civil Engineer, Consultant
 Hongyun Liu                             Senior Power Engineer, Consultant
 Scott MacKnight                         Environmental Specialist, Consultant
 Han-KangYen                             Research Analyst
 XinChen                                 Program Assistant
 Dawei Young                             Procurement Specialist
 KarinNordlander                         Lead Counsel
 Robert O'Leary                          Senior Finance Officer (Loan administration)




                                                 - 63 -

                            Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                           CHINA: Fourth Inland Waterways Project


A. Project Implementation Plan
1. GuangxiCommunicationsDepartment: "GuangxiYoujiang Waterway DevelopmentProject:Naji
Navigation Complex ProjectImplementationProgram", August 2003

2. Guangdong Provincial Waterway Bureau: "ProposedFourthInlandWaterways Project, Guangdong
Component, ProjectImplementationPlan(RevisedVersion)", September 2003

B. Bank Staff Assessments

1. EconomicEvaluation of ProjectComponents(EXCEL tables)

2. FinancialEvaluation of ProjectComponents.

C. Other
1. NajiNavigation Complex; EngineeringFeasibility Study, June 2002

2. NajiNavigation Complex: Economic EvaluationReport, August 20023.

3. Naji Navigation Project: Report o f Dam Safety Review Panel Meeting No.l,24 February,
2003

4. Channel RegulationEngineeringinLao-Long-Hu Waterway and Channel Regulation
Engineeringfor North River (Shaoguan to Qingyuan Section)

5. BriefReport on the Feasibility Study of the Lao-Long-Hu Waterway Regulation Works, 26
August 2002

6. Feasibility Research Report on Channel Regulationof Middle Reaches o fNorthRiver
(Shaoguan-Qingyuan), August 2002

7. BriefReport on the Feasibility Study o f XiniuNavigation Complex, 16 August, 2002

8. Guangdong Provincial Waterways Bureau: "A Survey Report on Throughput and Facilities o f
the Project-Related Ports", May 2003

*Including electronic files




                                              - 64 -

                                          Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                           CHINA: Fourth Inland Waterways Project
                                                          03-Feb-2004
                                                                                                                  Differencebetweenexpected
                                                                                                                           and actual
                                                               OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                            disbursements"
Project ID   FY    Purpose                                 IBRD        IDA                  GEF    Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO65463     2004 CN Jiangxi IntegratedAgric. Modern          100.00     0.00                 0.00     0.00   100.00        0.75      0.00
                     ~




P065035     2004 CN-Gansu8 XinjiangPastoral Development       66.27     0.00                 0.00     0.00   65.61         3.88      0.00

PO66955     2004 CN-ZhejiangUrbanEnvmt                       133.00     0.00                 0.00     0.00   133.00        0.00      0.00

PO73002     2004 CN-Basic Educationin Western Areas          100.00     0.00                 0.00     0.00   100.00        0.00      0.00

PO77615     2004 CN-GEF-Gansu8 Xinjiang PastoralDevelop        0.00     0.00                 10.50    0.00    10.50        0.70      0.00

PO67337     2003 CN-2nd GEF EnergyConservation                 0.00     0.00                 26.00    0.00    15.00      15.98       0.00

PO40599     2003 CN-TIANJINURB DEV II                        150.00     0.00                 0.00     0.00   150.00        0.00      0.00

PO56847     2003 CN-3rd Xinjiang Hwy Project                 150.00     0.00                 0.00     0.00   106.13        6.55      0.00

PO68058     2003 CN-Yixing PumpedStorage Project             145.00     0.00                 0.00     0.00   140.95        1.47      0.00

PO76714     2003 CN-Anhui Hwy 2                              250.00     0.00                 0.00     0.00   250.00      13.42       0.00

PO70441     2003 CN-Hubei Xiaogan XiangfanHwy                250.00     0.00                 0.00     0.00   178.66       -3.01      0.00

PO70191     2003 CN-SHANGHAIURB ENVMTAPLI                    200.00     0.00                 0.00     0.00   200.00        0.00      0.00

PO64729     2002 CN-SUSTAINABLEFORESTRYDEV. PROJECT           93.90     0.00                 0.00     0.00    80.48        3.65      0.00

PO58846     2002 CN-Natl RailwayProject                      160.00     0.00                 0.00     0.00    37.23       -2.35      0.00

PO71147     2002 CN-TuberculosisControl Project              104.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00    92.67      -11.33      0.00

PO60029     2002 CN-Sustain.ForestryDev(Natura1Forest)        0.00      0.00                 16.00    0.00    17.68        2.60      0.00

PO70459     2002 CN-InnerMongoliaHwy Project                 100.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00    88.82        5.15      0.00

PO68049     2002 CN-HubeiHydropowerDev in PoorAreas          105.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00    87.89       10.72      0.00

PO58845     2001 Jiangxi iI Hwy                              200.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00   133.42        5.08      0.00

PO56199     2001 CN-3rd InlandWatelways                      100.00     0.00                 0.00     0.00    84.12        7.62      0.00

PO56516     2001 CN -WATER CONSERVATION                      74.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    41.42        8.46      0.00

PO56596     2001 CN-ShljiazhuangUrbanTransport               100.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00    88.58       53.81      0.00

PO47345     2001 CN-HUAI RIVERPOLLUTIONCONTROL               105.50     0.00                  0.00    0.00    90.68      -14.82      0.00

PO51859     2001 CN-LIAO RIVERBASIN                         '100.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00    80.23       35.23      0.00

PO45915     2001 CN-UrumqiUrbanTransport                     100.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00    52.54       46.04      0.00

PO45910     2000 CN-HEBEIURBANENVIRONMENT                    150.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00   123.53       48.03      0.00

PO49436     2000 CN-CHONGQINGURBANENVMT                      200.00     0.00                  0.00    3.70   161.67       64.70      0.00

PO56424     2000 TONGBAI PUMPEDSTORA                         320.00     0.00                  0.00   100.00  164.64       97.81      0.00

PO45264     2000 CN-SMALLHLDRCATLE DEV                       93.50      0.00                  0.00    0.00    14.62        8.34      0.00

PO42109     2000 CN-BEIJINGENVIRONMENTII                     349.00     0.00                 25.00    0.00   294.22      183.70      0.00

PO58844     2000 3rd HenanProv Hwy                           150.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00    67.17       29.51      0.00

PO58843     2000 GuangxiHighway                              200.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00   105.76       46.76      0.00

PO64924     2000 CH-GEF-BEIJINGENVMT II                       0.00      0.00                 25.00    0.00    26.26       18.43      2.20

PO64730     2000 CN YangtzeDike Strengthening Project
                     -                                       210,oo     0.00                  0.00     0.00  114.03       94.03      0.00
P050036     1999 Anhui ProvincialHwy                         200.00     0.00                  0.00     9.60   43.79       40.39      0.00

PO51705     1999 Fujian IIHighway                            200.00     0.00                  0.00     0.00   65.86       62.53      0.00

PO51856     1999 ACCOUNTINGREFORM& DEVELOPMENT               27.40      5.60                  0.00     0.00   19.24       19.16      0.00

PO41268     1999 CN-NatHwy4iHubei-Hunan                      350.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00    59.72       34.72      0.00

PO57352     1999 CN-RURALWATER IV                             16.00    30.00                  0.00    0.00    21.84       15.42      7.68

PO58308     1999 CN-PENSIONREFORMPJT                          0.00      5.00                  0.00     0.00    1.77        1.75      0.00

PO56216     1999 CN - LOESS   PLATEAUII                      100.00    50.00                  0.00     0.00   29.24       31.38      0.00

PO60270     1999 CN-ENTERPRISEREFORMLN                        0.00      5.00                  0.00    0.00     2.71        4.29      4.07

PO38121     1999 CN-GEF-RENEWABLEENERGYDEVELOPMEN1            0.00      0.00                 35.00    0.00    28.58       26.50      7.57

PO51888     1999 CN - GUANZHONGIRRIGATION                    80.00     20.00                  0.00     0.00   38.11       30.52      0.00

PO49665     1999 CN-ANNINGVALLEYAG.DEV                       90.00     30.00                  0.00     0.00   213 3       11.52      0.00

PO46051     1999 CN-HIGHEREDUC. REFORM                       20.00     50.00                  0.00    0.00     5.70        7.31      0.00

PO43933     1999 CN-SICHUANURBAN ENVMT                       150.00     2.00                  0.00     0.00   93.14       77.33      23.93

PO42299     I999 TEC COOPCREDIT IV                            10.00    35.00                  0.00     0.00   36.14      -10.18       0.00

PO41890     1999 CN-Liaoning UrbanTransport                  150.00     0.00                  0.00     0.00   36.96       36.96      0.00

P036953     1999 CN-HEALTHIX                                  10,oo    50.00                  0.00     0.00   37.49       22.26       0.00

PO03653     1999 CN-ContainerTransport                       71.00      0.00                  0.00    18.61    3.62       22.19       0.66

PO46829     1999 RENEWABLE ENERGYDEVELOPMENT                 100.00     0.00                  0.00     0.00   12.87       99.87       6.07

PO46564     1999 CN - Gansu  8 InnerMongoliaPovertyRed.      60.00     100.00                 0.00    13.30   49.81       38.19      -3.54




                                                              - 65 -

                                                                                                                        Differencebetween expected
                                                                                                                                 and actual
                                                                      OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                           disbursements'

Project ID  FY    Purpose                                       IBRD          IDA                    GEF   Cancel. Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd

PO03614     1998 CN-Guangzhou CityTransport                        200,oo       0.00                 0.00    20.00  100.31     120.31      100.31

PO03606     1998 ENERGY CONSERVATION                                63.00       0.00                22.00    0.00    36.22      18.22       0.00

PO35698     1998 HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                              300.00       0.00                 0.00   145.00   31.45     172.70      -22.46

PO49700     1998 CN- IAlL-2                                        300.00       0.00                 0.00    0.00     4.52       4.52        0.60

PO37859     1998 CN-GEF EnergyConsewation                            0.00       0.00                22.00    0.00     0.44      22.06        0.00

PO03619     1998 CN-2nd Inland Waterways                           123.00       0.00                 0.00    17.00   39.18      54.12        4.29

PO40185     1998 CN-SHANDONGENVIRONMENT                             95.00       0.00                 0.00     1.40   20.07      21.47       -0.79

PO03566     1998 CN-BASIC HEALTH(HLTH8)                              0.00      85.00                 0.00     0.00   39.66      23.29        0.00

PO46563     1998 CN  - TARiM BASiN II                               90.00      60.00                 0.00     2.67   14.78      16.58        0.00

P045788     1998 Tri-Provinciai Hwy                                230.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00   19.81      15.98        0.00

PO03539     1998 CN -SUSTAINABLE COASTAL RESOURCESDE               100.00       0.00                 0.00     2.06   47.54      45.44       33.72

PO51736     1998 E. CHINNJIANGSU PWR                               250.00       0.00                 0.00    86.00   51.14     137.14       11.55

PO46952     1998 CN FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                           100.00     100.00                 0.00     0.00   40.02     -61.48       17.91
                     ~




PO36949     1998 CN-Nat Hwy3-Hubei                                 250.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00   21.15      21.15        0.00

PO36414     1998 CN-GUANGXI URBAN ENVMT                             72.00      20.00                 0.00     0.00   71.56      65.25       23.72

PO03637     1997 CN-NAT'L RURALWATER 3                               0.00      70.00                  0.00    0.00    0.00       3.20        2.78

PO03590     1997 CN QINBA MOUNTAINS POVERTYREDUCTIO                 30.00     150.00                  0.00    0.00   13.16      16.34       -3.28
                     ~




PO35693     1997 FUEL EFFICIENT iND,                                 0.00       0.00                32.80     0.00    7.62      32.81        0.00

PO03654     1997 Nat Hwy2/Hunan-Guangdong                          400.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00   48.52      48.52       16.70

PO03650     1997 TUOKETUO POWEWINNER                               400.00       0.00                  0.00  102.50   37.37     139.87       25.18

PO38988     1997 CN  - HEiLONGJlANGADP                             120.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00    7.85       7.85        3.84

PO44485     1997 SHANGHAIWAiGAOQIAO                                400.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00   85.11       55.33      39.65

PO36405     1997 CN  - WANJlAZHAi  WATER TRA                       400.00       0.00                  0.00   75.00   22.58       97.58       5.00

PO03602     1996 CN-HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                        125.00      25.00                  0.00   28.32   39.72       70.08      29.74

PO03599     1996 CN-YUNNANENVMT                                    125.00      25.00                  0.00   19.48   40.68       61.92       8.06

PO40513     1996 2nd Henan Prov Hwy                                210.00       0.00                  0.00   19.00   16.69       35.69      22.69

PO03594     1996 CN  - GANSU   HEXI CORRIDOR                        60.00      90.00                  0.00    0.00   73.92       58.83       0.00

PO03589     1996 CN-DISEASE PREVENTiON(HLTH7)                        0.00      100.00                 0.00    0.00    3.08       12.18       0.00

PO34618     1996 CN-LABOR MARKET DEV.                               10.00      20.00                  0.00    0.00    5.60        7.77       0.00

PO03648     1996 CN-SHANGHAISEWERAGE II                            250.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00   39.94       39.94      -0.19

PO03571     1995 CNJth Railways                                    400.00       0.00                  0.00  119.00   13.10     132.10       23.10

PO03639     1995 CN-SOUTHWEST POVERTY REDUCTIONPROJE                47.50     200.00                  0.00    0.01    1.21       25.36      25.36

PO03647     1995 China Economic Law Reform -LEGEA                    0.00       10.00                 0.00    0.00    0.61        0.93       0.00

PO03603     1995 CN-ENTHOUSING8 SSR                                275.00      75.00                  0.00   57.46   38.95       94.26       1.23

PO03596     1995 CN-Yangtze Basin Water Resources Project          100.00      110.00                 0.00    1.92    0.34        4.75       4.75

PO03540     1994 CN-LOESS PLATEAU                                    0.00      150.00                 0.00    0.00    1.12        0.50       0.00

PO03632     1993 CN-ENVIRONMENTTECH ASS                              0.00      50.00                  0.00    0.00    1.11        1.73       1.41

                                                         Total:  11719.07     1722.60             214.30    842.02  5141.55    2977.32     423.52




                                                                     - 66 -

                                             CHINA
                                     STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                   HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                        June 30,2003
                                      InMillionsUS Dollars


                                                      Committed                   Disbursed
                                                    IFC                         IFC

FY Approval    Company                         Loan  Equity Quasi  Partic Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic

2001           Peak Pacific                    0.00    0.00  25.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
1998           Rabobank SHFC                   0.45    0.00   0.00  0.45   0.45   0.00    0.00   0.45
2000           SSIF                            0.00    6.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.89    0.00   0.00
1998           Shanghai Krupp                 28.92    0.00   0.00 65.63  28.92   0.00    0.00  65.63
1999           Shanghai Midway                 0.00   16.02   0.00  0.00   0.00   16.02   0.00   0.00
1999           Shanxi                          16.75   0.00   0.00  0.00  14.20   0.00    0.00   0.00
1993           ShenzhenPCCP                    3.76    0.00   0.00  0.00   3.76   0.00    0.00   0.00
               Sin0 Gold                       0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2002           Sino-Forest                    25.00    0.00   0.00  0.00  20.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2001           suzhouPVC                       0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1995197        WIT                             5.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998           Wanjie Hospital                 15.00   0.00   0.00  0.00  15.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000           WeihaiWeidongri                  1.03   0.00   0.00  0.00   1.03    0.00   0.00   0.00
1996           XACB                            0.00   19.93   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2003           Yantai Cement                   6.33    1.95   0.00  0.00   6.33    1.95   0.00   0.00
1993           Zhen Jing                       0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
0              Zhengye-ADC                     15.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   2.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2003           Advantage                       0.00    0.50   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.50   0.00   0.00
2002103        BCIB                            0.00    0.00  11.60  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2003           Bank of Shanghai                0.00   24.67   0.00  0.00   0.00   24.67   0.00   0.00
1999100102     CDH China Fund                  0.00   16.36   0.00  0.00   0.00    2.38   0.00   0.00
2002           CIG HoldingsPLC                 0.00    3.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    3.00   0.00   0.00
1998100        CSMC                            0.00   12.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    7.20   0.00   0.00
2003           ChengduHuarong                  6.73    3.20   0.00  7.82   6.73    3.20   0.00   7.82
1998           Chengxin-IBCA                   0.00    0.36   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.36   0.00   0.00
1998           China Bicycles                  0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1987192194     China Walden Mgt                0.00    0.01   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.01   0.00   0.00
1994           ChinaWalden Ven                 0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1994          Dalian Glass                     0.00    2.40   0.00  0.00   0.00    2.40   0.00   0.00
1994          Dupont Suzhou                    9.35    4.15   0.00  0.00   9.35    4.15   0.00   0.00
1995          Dynamic Fund                     0.00    8.76   0.00  0.00   0.00    7.10   0.00   0.00
1994          Great Infotech                   0.00    3.50   0.00  0.00   0.00    2.10   0.00   0.00
2003          Hansom                           0.00    0.08   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.08   0.00   0.00
1999          HuarongAMC                      23.74    3.00   0.00  0.00  14.74    0.01   0.00   0.00
2002          IEC                             20.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2002          LeshanScana                      5.36    1.35   0.00  0.00   3.76    1.35   0.00   0.00
1998          MaanshanCarbon                   9.00    2.00   0.00  0.00   9.00    2.00   0.00   0.00
2001          MinshengBank                     0.00   23.50   0.00  0.00   0.00   23.50   0.00   0.00
2001          NCCB                             0.00   26.58   0.00  0.00   0.00   26.46   0.00   0.00
2001          Nanjing Kumho                    3.89    3.81   0.00  11.07  3.89    3.81   0.00  11.07
1996          New ChinaLife                    0.00   30.70   0.00  0.00   0.00   23.32   0.00   0.00
2001          Newbridge Inv.                   0.00    1.95   0.00  0.00   0.00    1.95   0.00   0.00
1995          OrientFinance                    0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1997198       PSAM                             0.00    1.93   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2003
                     Total Portfolio:        195.31  217.74  36.60  84.97 139.16  158.44   0.00  84.97




                                             - 67 -

                                              Approvals Pending Commitment

FYApproval    Company                        Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
2002          ASIMCO                         0.00       0.01      0.00     0.00
2003          Anjia                          0.00       0.00      0.01     0.00
2004          CCB-MS NF'L                    0.03       0.00      0.00     0.00
2004          CUNA RCCI                      0.00       0.00      0.01     0.00
2003          Cellon                         0.00       0.00      0.01     0.00
2002          Darong                         0.01       0.00      0.00     0.01
2002          HuarongAMC                     0.02       0.00      0.00     0.00
2002          IEC                            0.00       0.01      0.00     0.00
2002          KHIT                           0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00
2003          Peak Pacific 2                 0.00       0.00      0.01     0.00
2003          SAIC                           0.01       0.00      0.00     0.00
2002          S M L                          0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00
2002          Sino Mining                    0.01       0.00      0.00     0.01
2002          Zhong Chen                     0.03       0.00      0.00     0.03

              Total PendingCommitment:       0.10       0.02      0.05     0.05




                                        - 68 -

                                                Annex IO: Country at a Glance
                                        CHINA: Fourth Inland Waterways Project

                                                                    East   Lower-
 POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                Asia B  middle-
                                                          China   Pacific income       Developmentdiamond'
 2002
 Population,mid-year (millions)                          1,281.0    1,838   2,411                       Life expectancy
 GNi per capita (Atlas method, US$)                         950      950    1,390
 GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        1,219.1    1,740                                      T
                                                                            3,352
 Average annual growth, 1996-02
 Population I%)                                              0.8      1.o     1.o
 Laborforce (%J                                              0.9      1.2     1.2      GNi                                    Gross
                                                                                       per                                   primary
 Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                 capita                              nrollment
 Poverty(% ofpopulation below nationalpovertyline]            5
 Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                     38       38       49
 Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                              71       69       69                             I
 Infantmortality (per 1,000 live births)                     30       33       30
 Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                  10       15       11             Access to improvedwater source
 Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)          75       76       81
 Illiteracy(% ofpopulation age 15+)                          14       13       13
 Gross primary enrollment (%ofschool-agepopulation)         106      106     111                   China
     Male                                                   105      105     111                   Lower-middle-incomegroup
                                                                                            ~

     Female                                                 108      106     110

 KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                   1982    1992     2001    2002
                                                                                       Economic ratios'
 GDP (US$ billions)                               221.5   454.6   1,167.1 1,232.7
 Gross domestic investmenVGDP                      33.2    36.2     38.5     41.0                            Trade
 Exportsof goods and services/GDP                    8.9   19.5     25.5     29.5
Gross domestic savingsiGDP                         34.8    37.7     40.9    44.0
Gross national savings/GDP                         35.1    38.0     40.0    43.8                               T
Currentaccount balancelGDP                          2.4     1.9       1.5     2.9      Jomestic
Interestpayments/GDP                                0.2     0.6       0.5     0.5                                        investment
                                                                                       savings
Total debVGDP                                       3.8    15.9     14.6     12.6
Total debt service/exports                          8.0     8.6       7.7     6.1
Presentvalue of debtfGDP                                            14.1
Presentvalue of debtfexports                                  ..    51.8
                                                                                                          indebtedness
                                        1982-92 1992-02   2001      2002  2002-06
(average annualgrowth)                                                                       -China
GDP                                         9.7     9.0     7.5      8.0      7.5            __
GDP per capita                             8.1      8.0     6.7      7.2      6.6                   Lower-middle-income group


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                   1982   1992      2001    2002     1 Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(?Aof GDP)                                                                                                                          L
Agriculture                                        33.3    21.8     15.8    14.5      20

Industry                                           45.0    43.9     50.1    51.7      '5

   Manufacturing                                   37.3    33.1     34.2    44.5      "

Services                                           21.7    34.3     34.1    33.7
                                                                                       0
Privateconsumption                                 50.7    49.2     45.7    42.5                 97      98    99    00   01    02
Generalgovernmentconsumption                       14.5    13.1     13.4    13.5
Importsof goods and services                                                                       -GDI             -GDP


                                                1982-92 1992-02    2o01     2o02
(average annualgrowth)                                                                Growth of exports and imports (Oh)

Agriculture                                         4.6     3.7      2.8     2.9     40

Industry                                           11.6    11.3      8.4     9.9     30
  Manufacturing                                    11.2    10.4      9.0     8.1     20
Services                                           jf.7     8.4      8.4     7.3     10

Privateconsumption                                 11.4     8.1      2.8     1.9
Generalgovernmentconsumption                        9.9    8.4      10.5     7.0   -10
Gross domestic investment                           9.5    9.7      13.9    14.9                "--Exports         'D'lmports
Imports of goods and services                                                                                                       I
                                                    9.7    12.8     10.8    27.5




                                                                - 69 -

                                                                                                                      China

PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1982     1992     2001     2002
Domesticprices
(% change)
Consumer prices                             6.0     6.4       0.7     -0.8
Implicit GDP deflator                      -0.2     7.9       1.2     -2.6

Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                           22.9     14.7     17.1     17.9
Current budget balance                        ..    2.0       1.1     0.0     j        -GDPdeflator         -0-CPI          I
OverallSurDlusldeficlt                     -0.3     -1.0     -4.7     -3.0


TRADE
                                         1982     1992     2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                  Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                     22,321   84,940  266,155  325,565
  Food                                   2,908    8,309   12,780   14,623      400'000T
  Fuel                                   5,314    4,693    8,420    8,372   `300,000
  Manufactures                          12,271   67,936  239,802  297,085
Total imports (cif)                     19,285   80,585  243,610  295,203      200 000

  Food                                   4,201    3,146    4,980    5,237      100 000
  Fueland energy                           183    3,570   17,495   19,285
  Capital goods                          3,204   31,312  107,040  137,030           0

Export price index (1995=100)               41       85       83       78
Importprice index (1995=100)                71       95       91       86
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   58       89       91       90

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1982     1992     2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                 Current account balanceto GDP (%)            I
Exportsof goods and services            24,906   94,198  299,409  365,395
Importsof goods and services            20,555   86,752  271,325  328,013
Resourcebalance                          4,350    7,446   28,084   37,383

Net incnme                                376      249   -19,174  -14,945
Net current transfers                     486     1,155    8,492   12,984

Current account balance                  5,212    8,850   17,401   35,422

Financingitems (net)                     -995   -10,952   30,046   40,085
Changes in net reserves                 -4,217    2,102  -47,447  -75,507

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)         ..  24,842  220,051  297,721
Conversionrate (DEC, local/US$)            2.4      5.9      8.3      8.3

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1982     1992     2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                 Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed     8,358    72,428  170,110  155,678
  IBRD                                       0   3,752    11,550   12,051
  IDA                                        1   4,287     8,654    8,729                              A: 12,051

Total debt service                      2,125    8,618    24,297   23,688
  IBRD                                       0     460     1,550    1,631
  IDA                                        0       30      151      175

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                            47     327       240
  Officialcreditors                       657    2,343     2,156    -839
  Privatecreditors                       -122    8,949    -4,017  -13,593
  Foreigndirect investment                430    11,156   44,241   49,308
  Porffolioequity                            0   1.243     3,015   2,286                        F:62,103
World Bank program
  Commitments                             330    1,865       782     563       A IBRD
                                                                                 -                             E Bilateral
                                                                                                                  -
  Disbursements                              1   1,331     1,791    1,733      B IDA
                                                                                 -        D Other multilateral
                                                                                            -                  F Private
                                                                                                                  -
  Principalrepayments                       0      197      904     1,157      C IMF
                                                                                 -                             G- Short-term
  Netflows                                   1   1,134      887      576
  Interestpayments                          0      293      797      649
  Net transfers                              1     841        90      -73




                                                        - 70 -

                                       Additional Annex I 1
                   EnvironmentalAssessment and Action Plan Summary
                          CHINA Fourth InlandWaterways Project

A. Background

 1.   This project consists ofthe NajiNavigationComplex inGuangxi Zhuang Autonomous
Region and three components inGuangdong Province: Lao-Long-Hu Waterway Improvement,
North River Channel Improvements (dredginghegulation) and XiniuNavigation Complex. The
respective InlandWaterways Bureaux retainedindependent consultants to prepare the
Environmental Assessment documentation(EIA, EAP and Summary EA). The task team
reviewed the Terms o f Reference for the EA and the first, second and thirddraft versions o f the
EIAand EAP documents. A summary ofthe consultants andthe status ofEAsis providedinthe
following table:

        Components                           EA consultants                    FinalEL4andEAP
                                                                                    submission
 NajiNavigation Complex       EnvironmentalProtectionResearchInstitute of          June 11,2003
                              GuangxiZhuang AutonomousRegion
 Lao-Long-Hu Waterway         Scientific ResearchInstitute o f the PearlRiver      May 18,2003
 Improvement                  Water ResourceProtection
 NorthRiverChannel            SouthChina Institute of EnvironmentalSciences        May 18,2003
 Jinprovements
 XiniuNavigationComdex        South ChinaInstituteof EnvironmentalSciences         Mav 18.2003

2.    Duringthe EA work, the local people inthe project areas were intensively consulted, and
their opinions are reflectedinthe project design. For example, after consultations, project design
was adapted to upgrade the level o f wastewater treatment at the construction camp, to avoid
blasting a shoal at a fishprotection zone, to move the location o f a new bridge, and to plant trees
along the reservoir.

3.    The nationalpolicy and administrativerequirements for environmental assessmento f
development projects inChina were satisfied duringpreparationand evaluation o f the EA, as was
the Bank's OP 4.01 onEnvironmentalAssessment. The followingmajor environmental laws
apply to the proposedProject:

  (a) EnvironmentalProtection Law o f the Peoples' Republic o f China (PRC);
 (b) Water Pollution Control Law o f PRC;
 (c) Water and Soil ConservationLaw o f PRC;
 (d) Atmospheric Pollution Control Law ofPRC;
 (e) EnvironmentalNoise Control Law o f PRC;
 (f) Cultural Relics Protection Law o f PRC; and
 (g) Circular on Strengthening Environmental Impact Assessment Management for Construction
      Projects Financed by International Financial Organizations.




                                                -71  -

B. BriefProjectDescription

4.    NajiNavigationComplexwill be located inthe northwest part o f Guangxi on the You
(Right)River, about 316 kmupstream ofNanning and about 40 kmdownstreamfrom Baise City.
Itwill be the fourth often dams that arebeingdeveloped within the YouNu River Master Plan.
The Complex is to include: (1) constructiono f a shiplock for 1,000 ton capacity vessels; (2)
construction o f a 196mwide x 19.55m highspillway and power house (57 MW capacity); (3)
construction o f a 409m access bridge and 8.7 kmo f access roads, and (4) dredging/ regulation to
address 9 shoals near Baise City and 135 shoals betweenNaji andNanning. The resultant
headpond will inundate 791ha o f land. The project site lies within two fault basins, the Baise
Basin and Tianyang Basin, between the Guangxi and Yunnan mountainmasses.

5.    Lao-Long-Hu Waterway Improvementprovides for navigationalimprovementsto an
existing 15.5 kmchannel, locatedinthe lower reach o f the Xi (West) Rver near Jiangmen City at
the western side o f the Pearl River Delta. It forms part of the Pearl River Delta Master Plan,
which was also partially addressedwithin China 2nd Inland Waterways Project. It will facilitate
movement o f 1,000-ton capacity vessels from Guangxi, Guizhou, and Yunnan to Hong Kong or
Macao. The sediments are mostly fine silts and clays.

6.    Bei(North) River ChannelImprovementprovides for navigationalimprovementsto five
sections (75 km) of the River between ShaoguanCity and Qingyuan City. It will enable 300-ton
capacity vessels to navigate the 184-kmsection during all seasons. The riverbed inthe upstream
consists o f sands, pebbles and some bedrock, inthe middle stream o f sand and pebbles, and inthe
lower stream o f sands mixedwith small pebbles.

7.    XiniuNavigationComplexwillbe locatedinthe northwest ofGuangdongProvince onthe
LianRiver,the largest branchofthe NorthRwer. Theproject site is located3.5 kmupriverof
Xiniu Town andabout 20 kmfrom the confluence with the NorthRiver. The complex will be
constructed between two sandbars inthe middle o f the river. It is the last and the most
downstreamof 12 steps that have been developed along the Lian River. Itincludes (I)      shiplock
for 100-toncapacity vessels; (2) construction o f a dam (10.5m height) andpowerhouse (10 MW
capacity); and (3) dredging o f 1.6 kmandregulation of 13 km o f the LianRiver. Construction o f
the complex will inundate 95 ha o f land.

C. Baseline EnvironmentDescription

8.    Climatic Conditions. All the components are locatedinthe sub-tropical monsoonzone.
The rainy season is from May to October ingeneral, and average rainfall i s from 1,100 mmto
2,500 mm. The average annual temperature is from 20 C to 22.7 C.

9.    Social Situations. (1) Naji Navigation Complex: Baise City has a population o f 332,000.
The major industry is agriculture (rice, sugar, vegetables, and fruits). Bake Port mostly handles
coal with bauxite and sand as lesser products with shipment to Nanning and thence to
Guangdong, Hong Kong and Macao. Annual average net income o f a farmer living inTianyan
County i s 2,519 RMB. (2) Lao-Long-Hu Waterway: Jiangmen City has a population o f 420,000



                                                 - 72 -

with an average per capita income of4,43 1RMB for farmers and 9,525 RMB for non-farm
workers. (3) NorthRiver Regulation: The population o f Shaoguan City and Qingyuan City are
3.1 and 3.9 millionrespectively, and average per capita income i s 3,300 RMB. (4) Xiniu
Navigation Complex: The populationo f XiniuTown and surroundingvillages i s about 20,000
with an average per capita income of2,500 to 3,120 RMB. The major industryis agriculture.

 10. EcologicalEnvironment

(a)   NajiNavigationComplex. GuangxiZhuang Autonomous Regionhas several natural
protectedareas; e.g., inthe upper tributaries o f the RightRiver are two water resources
protection areas, Chengbihe and Baidonhe, and one nature protection area, Dawangling. The EIA
predicts no impacts, as they are significant distances from the project site. The 343 ha area to be
inundated is 62% cultivated land, 19.8% gardenplot, 9.5% residential and commercial areas,
4.8% water area and 3.9% forest. Site investigationsby local academic experts identifiedno
protected areas or critical natural habitats, a result confirmed with localauthorities. The EIA
findings on protectednaturalareas were checked with "A Directory of Asian Wetlands"
(International Union for Conservation o fNature andNatural Resources) and "A Biodiversity
Review o f China" (World Wildlife Federation).


(b)   Lao-Long-HuWaterway Improvement. This chain ofthree waterways is locatedina
relatively undevelopedarea near Jiangmen City. Site investigationwas conducted along the
project site (16 km intotal), quarries, and dumping sites. The EIA report identifies no protected
area or critical natural habitats within the impact area o f the project site, which was confirmed
with localauthorities.

(c)   NorthRiver ChannelImprovement. The EIA report identifies the Yebei andHuaNanHu
Nature Conservation Areas, but both are more than 100 kmaway from the projects sites. The
project designprovides that no civil works will be conducted within or near upstreamo f the three
"no-fishing" areas inQingyuan City. Site investigation involving local academic experts identified
no critical habitats o f fauna and flora andthe results were confirmedwith localauthorities.


(d)   Xiniu NavigationComplex. The vegetation aroundthe project site is farmland and
bamboo bush. The 95 ha area to be inundated i s mostly within the existingflood plainand i s 90%
bushand 6% bamboo. The EIA report identifies no protected areas or critical naturalhabitats
near the project site. This findingwas confirmed with localauthorities.

11. Water Quality. The proposedprojects sites are remote from large populatedareas or
major industrial sources o f pollution. According to the monitoringdata duringpast several years,
all the project sites ingeneral comply with Class I1or 111water quality standards; water quality at
the Xiniu Navigation Complex i s as good as Class I.There is a drinking-water intake at Xiniu
Town.

12. Sediment Quality. Though the proposed projects sites are remote from populated areas or
major industrial sources o f pollution, elevated concentrations o f arsenic and cadmium were noted
for the NajiNavigation Complex inGuangxi, which i s common inthis region and regarded as o f



                                                  - 73 -

natural origin. According to the nationalregulation, the materials cannot be placed on agricultural
land, but will be disposed inoff-channel sites. Sediments inother areas are acceptable for
disposal on land as fillmaterials.

13. Existing Noise and Air Quality. The noise levels at villages around NajiNavigation
Complex andXiniuNavigation Complex have almost reachedthe maximum allowed under the
national standardbecause of existing commercial activities. Noise mitigation measures and
monitoring to address this situation will be implemented. Air quality measurements are within
appropriate national standards.

14. Cultural Relics. Archeological authorities conducted investigations usingbothdocument
reviewsandsite inspections. At Naji, Poluo Relics, a pre-historic ruin, was identified within the
inundation area, where pottery pieces with rope-figures, stoneware, and bone tools are found.
According to national and regional laws, the relics will be excavated and preserved by the
Autonomous Region Cultural Administration Department. At Lao-Long-Hu, four sunken ships
from the Tang Dynasty were found withinthe Waterway, but not inthe actual project areas. The
provincial antiquities bureauconcluded that the proposed project would not impact the sunken
ships due to distance.

D.PotentialEnvironmental Impacts and Their MitigationMeasures
D-1.NajiNavigation Complex
15. Analyses of Alternatives. Four alternatives for the location o f the complex, and three
alternatives for the water level of the reservoir as well as the no-project alternative were analyzed.
The EIA rejectedthe "no-project" alternative due to the need for navigation improvements. The
EIA concludedthat the proposedlocation is the most appropriate from an engineering and
environmentalviewpoint because it requires the least amount o f civil works. The middle water
level was selected to provide the best navigational depth for 1,000-ton capacity vessels, while also
minimizing disruption to resettlement and existing ecology.

16. Construction Phase. The potential major environmental issues during construction are (a)
water pollutiondue to increased suspendedsolids, (b) waste material dumping, (c) protection of
residential areas, (d) protection o f aquatic ecosystem, and (e) protection o f the cultural relics.
Proposed mitigation measures include:

  (a) The main source o f water pollution i s discharge o f accumulated water from the foundation
      excavation. Settling ponds will be constructedto control the concentration o f suspended
      solids inthe discharges within the national standardof 70 mg/L.

  (b) Disposalsites for surplus excavatedmaterials were carefully selected among several
      low-lying areas, with little ecological value or for agricultural production. Dredgedmaterial
      will be dumped inthe river, primarily for use inriverregulation. While concentrations o f
      some trace metals are elevated, this i s due to natural geology and not anthropogenic
      contamination.




                                                 - 74 -

  (c) Residential areas and a school near the project site or along transportationroads were
       identified as environmentally sensitive areas. Noise and dust control measureswill include
       spraying water or limitingconstruction schedules.

  (d) The EIA report does not identify significant impacts to the biodiversity ofthe aquatic
      ecosystem becausethere are many tributaries o f similar environment, including the
      composition of fauna and flora. Inaddition, the provincial government is considering
      enhancing the proposed fish conservation center to include rehabilitation o f biodiversity in
      the proposedreservoir.

  (e) According to national and regional laws, the project will excavate 1,000 sq.m. of Poluo
      Relics site to protect pre-historic items.

17. OperationPhase. The potential major environmental issue during operationi s
eutrophication o f the reservoir. The EIA predicts water quality will be controlled withm Class I11
level, provided that public wastewater treatment facilities, now inplanning, will be constructed as
scheduled. The report recommends a good ecological balance be achieved, by stocking the
proposed reservoir with a variety of fish species.

D-2.Lao-Long-HuWaterwayImprovement

18. Analysis of Alternatives. Three alternatives for routes, two alternatives for changes to the
channel alignment, two alternative sources for quarries, and the '(no-project" alternative were
analyzed. The selected route and alignment provide the best benefits interms o f bothengineering
and environment. The selected channel alignment also provided for the best curvature providing
for the minimumof excavationand therefore environmental impacts. Bothquarries satisfy the
needs o f the project and the one with the poorer existingvegetation was selected.

19. Construction Phase. The identified major environmental issues duringconstruction are: (a)
water pollution, (b) waste material dumping, (c) nearby residential area, and (d) the aquatic
ecological environment. Proposed mitigation measures are as follows:

 (a) The major source o f suspended solids/turbidity will be the clamshell dredging andupland
      disposal. Multi-cell sedimentation ponds will be constructed for each dumpingsite, with a
      discharge control of 70 mg/L for suspended solids. Waste material dumpingsites were
      selected inconsultation with local governments. They are a combination o f an unused river
      channel and borrow pits from earlier town construction. Dredged materialswill be
      hydraulically pumpedto each dumping site.

 (b) Sediments proposedfor dredging are relatively uncontaminateddue to the limited
      industrializationor urbanization o f the general waterway area.

 (c) A large portiono f the proposedexcavation (channel bendre-alignment) will be conducted
      "inthe dry" to significantly reduce impacts to the aquatic environment.




                                                - 75 -

  (d) Noise and dust prevention measuresrelatedto bridge re-constructionnear a residential area,
      will include limiting the construction schedule andspraying water.

  (e) Blasting and regulation work will avoid fish reproduction seasons. All disturbed vegetation
      will be rehabilitatedincluding the quarry anddumping sites.

20. Operationphase. The project will rehabilitate the existingwaterway and enable it to be
usedby larger ships. While a higher volume o ftraffic is expected, there will be a decrease inthe
chance o f accidents causing oil spills. The risks associatedwith the project works are considered
to be minor, and no major environmental issues are identified for the operatingphase.

D-3.NorthRiver ChannelImprovements

21. Analysis of Alternatives. Five sections o fthe river will be dredged and regulated. For
sections A, B, and E, there are options interms o f engineering specification o f regulation.
Combining these options, three alternatives were developed. The three alternatives and the
"no-project" alternative were analyzed. The recommended altemative minimizes the extent o f
construction o f spurs and groins, reduces the need for blasting o f shoals to none and minimizes
the amount of dredging. The EIAreport concludes the recommended alternative is the best from
boththe environmental and engineering viewpoints.

22. Construction Phase. The potential major environmental issues duringconstruction are: (a)
water pollution due to increased suspendedsolidshrbidity, particularly inwater protection and
"no fishing" areas; (b) dumping o f dredged materials and (c) protectiono f fish andother aquatic
organisms. Because there are no terrestrial aspects o f this component, no major impacts to
terrestrial vegetation are expected. N o residential areas were identifiedwithin the project impact
zone. Proposedmitigation measures are:

  (a) Duringdredging, silt curtains will be deployed to contain waters with elevated
      concentrations of suspendedsolids/turbidity. The dredged materials will be dumped by
      pump-style equipment to minimize dispersion.

  (b) Sediments proposed for dredgingare relatively uncontaminatedas mucho fthe material is
      mediumto coarse sand andfine to mediumcobble.

 (c) Dredgedmaterials will be dumped at designated dumpingareas either indeep off-channel
      areas or betweenriver regulation groins.

 (d) No blastingwill be conducted andregulationwork will avoid fishreproduction seasons.
      The project will cooperate with the fishery authority to release fry to the river.




                                                - 76 -

23,   Operation Phase. The project will rehabilitate the existing waterway and enable it to be
used by larger ships. While there will be higher volume o f traffic, there will be a decrease inthe
chance o f accidents causing oil spills. The risks associatedwith the project are considered to be
minor, and no major environmental issues are identified for the operating phase.

D-4.Xiniu Navigation Complex

24. Analyses of Alternatives. As this i s the last o f 12 dams/shiplocks modifyingthe Lian
River, final site alternatives were limited. Three alternatives for the location and the "no-project"
alternative were analyzed. The EIA concluded that the proposedlocation is good for the
engineering and the environmental becauseit requires the least amount o f civil works. The
reservoir water levelwas determined at the minimumto ensure year-round navigation for 100-ton
capacity vessels to the next step up the river.

25.   Construction Phase. The potentialmajor environmental issues duringconstruction are: (a)
water pollution due to increased suspendedsolids, particularly with respect to the drinkingwater
intake at Xiniu Town, (b) waste material dumping, (c) protection o f residential areas, and (d)
protection o f the ecological environment. Proposed mitigation measures are:

  (a) Duringconstruction o f the cofferdams and excavation o f the facility foundation, the project
      will coordinate with Xiniu Town water utility to protect the quality o f water at the intake.
      Settling ponds will be constructed to control the concentrationo f suspended solids inthe
      discharges within the national standard o f 70 mg/L.

  (b) Soil androck from construction o fthe complex will be reused at the constructionsite.
      Material dredged from the river will be dumped into the river to augment river regulation.
      N o waste material dumping sites will be established outside o f the construction area.

  (c) The transportationroutes for the quarriedrock were surveyed and one school was identified
      as an environmentally sensitive site. Noise and dust preventionmeasures will be taken.

  (d) With respect to the ecological environment, the EIA report does not predict significant
      impacts for aquatic fauna and flora because o f the small size o f the complex and that this is
      the last and the most downstream step o f 12 that regulatethe flow o f the Lian River. To
      rehabilitate fishresources, the Waterway Bureauproposes to introduce a variety o f fish
      species. Inaddition, all disturbedvegetation will be rehabilitated.

26.   Operation Phase. N o major environmental issues are identified. Oil leakage from the
vessels duringnormal operation will be monitored by the Communications Department. An
action program and placement o f necessary responseequipment for accidents will be prepared.

27. LessonsLearned from the Previous Project. The GuigangNavigation Complex in
Guangxi was part o f the (first) InlandWaterways Project; the Hutiaomen and L-S-R Waterway
Improvementswere part o f the Second InlandWaterways Project, now nearing completion. This
FourthProject benefited from bothCommunications Departments' having completedEA



                                                - 77 -

 documentation for Bank-financed projects. The understanding of Bank requirements was much
 improved, as reflectedinmore complete EIA and EAP documents. The role o f public
 consultation duringthe pre-constructionphase was also increased through additional meetings
 and a better use o f consultation methods. Public comments were utilized inchanges to the project
 design.

28. Cumulative and Indirect Impacts

(1) Naji Navigation Complex will (as notedabove) be the fourth o ften dams proposedunder
the Y o f l u River Master Development Plan. The major cumulative impacts o f these
developments are interference with fish migration, alteration o f riverbanks, increasedwater
pollution from shipping, and change inriver hydraulics. The EIA concludes that good protection
works o f the riverbanks, installation and good management o f wastewater-collection tanks in
ships andgood treatment o fwastewaters at land-based facilities will be able to control the
pollution. Further, the changes inriver hydraulics were modeled and the channel designed to
address issues o f siltation. The EIA report predicts limitedinduced environmental impacts
associated with the expansion o f port and terminal facilities, as their design will address impacts
relatedto landuse and highways. Produced electricity will be primarilyused for industrial
development inBake City and adjacent towns. The production o f hydroelectric power will
reduce the demand for burningo f coal to generate electricity, thereby reducing greenhouse gas
emissions.

(2) Lao-Long-Hu Waterway Improvement. The Pearl River Delta is one o f three major areas
within China that have a significant potential for transportationimprovement through the use o f
inlandwaterways. The Delta is beingdeveloped within a Master Plan with improvements to three
major north-south and three major east-west waterways. The Second InlandWaterway Project is
enhancing two o f the other waterways. The major cumulative impacts o f these developments are
alterationo f riverbanks, increasedwater pollutionfrom shippingand changes inwaterway
hydraulics. The EIA concludes that good protection works o f the riverbanks, installation and
good management o f wastewater-collection tanks inships and good treatment o f wastewaters at
land-based facilities will be able to control the pollution. Further, the changes inwaterway
hydraulics were modeled and the channel designed to address issues o f siltation. The EIA report
predicts limitedinduced environmental impacts associatedwith the expansion o f loading and
unloading facilities located on other or adjacent waterways, as their design will address impacts
relatedto landuse and highways. Industrial development o f the Tan River valley is and will occur
irrespective o f the waterway project. There will be a beneficial induced impact as shippingtraffic
to Hong Kong will be able to use a shorter and more protectedwaterway than the current South
China Sea route outside the Delta.

(3) North River Waterway Improvement. The EIA report analyses cumulative impacts related
to the existing three dams/shiplocks and their reservoirs and earlier modifications to the lower
section o f the River. The major issue will be water pollution causedby suspended sediments and
its secondary impact to aquatic ecology. The impact will be short-term based on occurrence only
duringconstruction and will be controlled through timing o f constructionandthe use o f silt
curtains. There are no readily identifiable induced impacts relatedto this sub-component.



                                                 - 78 -

(4) Xiniu Navigation Complex. From 1959 to1974, 11water resources dams were constructed
on the LianRiver with provision of shiplocks to enhance river navigation. The major deleterious
cumulative impact has been the interference to migratory fish species. However, as the proposed
component will be the last on the Lian River, additional cumulative impacts are not expected.
Local communities have beentaking various measuresto recover fishresources, including
stocking o f headponds. The component i s part o f a larger economic development and
poverty-reduction effort inthe northeastem part of the Province. The proposedimprovement o f
river transportationwill enhance such resource industries as coal, cement, metallic substances,
construction materials and local agriculturalproducts, as well as improve irrigation capacity and
contribute to agricultural productivity.

E.Environmental Monitoring

32.    Monitoringwill be carried out to verify predicted impacts, identify unexpected
environmental problems at an early stage and implemenuadjustmitigation measures, as
appropriate. For example, the concentrationo f suspendedsolids inthe effluent from
sedimentationponds will be monitored at least twice per week, with the rate o f discharge adjusted
to comply with the national standard. Monitoring will cover bothpollution-related and ecological
environment issues. Monitoringwill be conducted by independent monitoring institutions to be
selected through a biddingprocess. The results o f monitoring will be reported both quarterly and
annually to the Bank and to relevant local authorities.

F. Institutional Arrangements and Training

33.    The Department of Communications inboth Guangxi and Guangdong will assign staff to be
responsible for the implementation o f environmental protection. An organization will be or has
already been established to implement the project. For example, the GuangxiXijiang Waterway
Constructionand Development Co. Ltd.i s responsible for the NajiNavigation Complex. The
implementing organizations will have a department incharge of environmental protection and
full-time or part-time staff will be assigned. At local levels, supervision groups will be set up for
each contract. One o f the members o f each group will be assigned for environmental supervision.
Rules onreportingo f findings andrecording ofactions will be established to facilitate effective
supervision.

34.    Local environmental authorities continue to work on the project. They and their field
offices will independently oversee the compliance issues. The project will provide the results o f
the environmentalmonitoring to them.

35. Implementationo f the EAP will be a part of the contract betweenthe Communication
Departments and contractors. Eachcontractor will be required to assign one or more staff
members to the project for environment protection activities.

36.    To enhance environmentalprotection knowledge and skill, staff incharge o f environmental
protection will receive training. The training program i s proposedto include lectures by experts,



                                                - 79 -

 site visits to similar projects and national and intemational training. A training budget o f US$
 398,000 has been allocated.

G. Public ConsultationandInformationDisclosure

37. PublicConsultationand Feedback. Duringpreparationo f the TOR and the EIA, people
within the project areas were intensivelyconsulted. Apart from the resettlement-related issues,
the public showed a wide range o f concems from water quality at drinkingwater intakes to noise
impacts to schools. Their opinions have beenreflectedinthe final project design and mitigation
measures: e.g., upgrading the level o f wastewater treatment at the construction camp, avoiding
shoal blasting within a fishprotectionzone, locationo f a new bridge, and planting o f trees within
the reservoir catchment area.

38. A two-stage public consultation was carried out according to the World Bank's guideline:
(a) shortly after environmental screening and before the terms o f reference for the EA were
finalized; and (b) after the draft EA report was prepared. The consultationswere conducted
through meetings and surveys, with questionnaires at towns and villages near the project sites.
The number ofpeople consultedat the last stage is estimated as 3,681including individual
citizens, organizations o f concerned villagers, and village committees. A summary o f consultation
activities appears inthe table below.

I                                                     Consultationof       DisclosureofE Mand
          Components             1 Consultation    I                    1
                                   '  ofTOR               EIA                  EAPRe~orts
 NajiNavigation Complex              April 2002          July 2002            August 30,2003
 XiniuNavigationComplex              June 2002          August 2002           August 30,2003
 NorthRiverRegulation                June 2002          August 2002           August 30,2003
 Lao-Long-Hu Regulation              June 2002          August 2002           August 30,2003

39. InformationDisclosure. The fourth and final versions o f EL4 report and EAP were
submittedto the Bank inJune 2003. The EA and EAP documents were disclosed at the World
Bank's InfoShop and locally at Communications Dept.offices inrelevant cities within the project
areas, public libraries and project offices, as announced by advertisement inlocal andprovincial
newspapers.

40. Conclusions. This project will cause environmentalimpacts similar to those that have been
experienced inprevious inlandwaterway projects. Those impacts will be mitigatedto the levels
that satisfy national and local environmental standards, provided that mitigationmeasures
described inthe EAPs are appropriately implemented.




                                                   - 80 -

                                      AdditionalAnnex 12
                        Summaryof ResettlementAction Plans (RAP)

                           CHINA: Fourth InlandWaterways Project


Background

 1.      The project components require land acquisition and relocation o f households. GXCD and
GDWB hiredexperienced consultants to work with localgovernments and completedthe
resettlement planning. East China Survey and Design Institute inZhejiang Province and the First
Mapping Institute o f Guangxi conducted the inventory, census, and socioeconomic survey for
Naji Dam inGuangxiduringDecember 2002 - March 2003. Guangzhou Social Science Academy
carried out the same planning activities for Xiniu Damand BeijingNavigation Channel during
October 2001 - May 2002. The consultants worked with the affectedvillages and developed
specific rehabilitation schemes for each affected farmer group. At the same time, the
Cross-cultural Research Center of Zhongshan University and Guangzhou Social Science Academy
carried out social assessments for bothcomponents. Field surveys confirmed that the channel
regulation components inbothGuangxi and Guangdongwould not require any land acquisition or
house relocation. On the basis of the above field work, the following resettlement action plans
were prepared,

     a) Resettlement Action Plan for Naji Navigation Complex (Guangxi Component)
     b) Resettlement Action Planfor Lao-Long-Hu Channel Improvement Scheme
     c) Resettlement Action Plan for XiniuNavigation Complex
     d) Summary Resettlement Action Plan for GuangdongComponent

2.       The RAPSwere prepared inaccordance with the LandAdministration Law o fthe People's
Republic o f China, the ImplementationRegulations o f the LandLaw inGuangdong and Guangxi
Provinces and World Bank OperationalPolicy4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement. The objective
o f the resettlement programs i s to ensure the restoration and improvement o f the livelihoods o f
the adversely affectedpeople.

ProjectImpacts

3.       Much consideration has gone into the resettlement planning inminimizing the adverse
impacts. Different altemativeshave beencomparedas to the alignment o f the regulatedchannels
and protective measures for farmlandinthe inundation areas. These are detailedinthe RAPS.

4        The project will require the acquisitionof land, relocationo f houses andtombs, and
cutting down o f trees. The project also will have an impact on some infrastructure, such as roads
and power and communication lines. The project will require the acquisition o f 14,852 muo f
land, ofwhich cultivated landis 5,358 mu, 36% ofthe total, andnon-used land6,020 mu, about




                                                 -81 -

40%. Most o f the lands to be lost are low-yielding river bank lands that are subject to annual
flooding. The affected farmers all have their regular productive plots outside the inundation
areas. The impact o f the landloss i s relatively small.

5       The total number o f people affectedthrough land acquisition i s 15,690 in3,769
households. The project also will require the demolition of 9,522 sq.m. o f housing, including
6,990 sq.m. o f residentialhousing, which requires the relocation o f 166 people in32 households.
The impacts are summarized as follows:

                                      Summary Impacts




Strategy for Livelihood Restoration

       Principles. The following were the guidingprinciples for developing the RAPS:

       The affectedpeople should improve or at least restore their original living standards.
       Anyone who loses his or her house should get new free plots for new house construction
       inhisor her current village.
       Resettlement plans, sites o f new houses, standards andbuildingareas should be
       determined after consultation with the affected people.
       For all affectedbuildings, compensation should be calculated on the basis o f the current
       replacement cost without considerationo f depreciation. The salvageable materials from
       the houses to be demolished belong to the owners o f the houses.
       The affected farmers will determine their own livelihood rehabilitationmeasures. The
       project office and local governments will assistthem indeveloping these measures.
       Redistribution o fremaining farmland among the farmers i s the fimdamental measure for
       livelihood development and must be carried out for all seriously affected villages.
       Cashpayment to individual householdi s only allowed inthe case o f minor impact and only
      with the endorsement of the villager councils.
      Lack o f title would not bar affected people from resettlement entitlements.



                                                - a2 -

7.      Relocation of households. Only the Naji DaminGuangxi requires the relocationo f
houses. This involves 14 farmer households and 18 urbanhouseholds. The rural houses are
plannedto be built intheir existing villages. The villages will provide new residentialplots, and
the specific house sites will be finalized through consultationwith the affectedhouseholds. The
farmers will buildtheir own houses with cash compensation at replacement costs. Resettlement is
scheduled to be completedbefore civil works starts. For the urbanhouseholds, two options were
made available to the affectedhouseholds for compensation, i.e. cash payment and replacement
housing at existing site with a temporary residence support. The affected households all chose the
latter option. A detailed unit rate analysis was conducted for the replacement cost of the different
types o f affectedbuildings

8.      Rehabilitation of infrastructure and business. The infrastructureaffected is mainly
power, telecommunications, water conservancy and transportationfacilities, as well as roads. For
these facilities, compensationbased on the reconstructioncost will be paidto the government
departments who are responsible for these facilities. The government departments will be in
charge o f the reconstruction. Some business will be affectedthrough either loss o f some attached
structures such as walls or temporary stop o f operations duringthe constructionperiod. None
requires relocation. They will be compensated incash.

9.      Livelihood restoration. Consultations were carried out inall affected farmer groups over
their rehabilitation strategies and measures. The affectedvillages have tentatively agreed on their
village approach as well as specific measures for rehabilitation. Farmers losing agricultural land
will follow a rehabilitation strategy combining land-for-land measuresand a cashpayment option.
Redistribution o f the remaining village land i s the primary measure among those affected. This
measure is planned for all seriously affected villages. Ifland loss i s marginal and farmers prefer
cash compensation to going through the process o f landredistribution, cash compensation will be
provided as an option. Inthe seriously affected villages, the project office, local governments and
the farmers worked together and formulated a rehabilitation strategy. They identified areas o f
need and developed measures for each o f these villages. These measures include development o f
cash crops, on-farm works, reinforcing extension services, farmer training, agro-processing and
reclamationo f barren mountain. These are detailed inthe RAPS.

Implementation Schedule

10.     The RAP implementationwill be aligned with civil works construction. New house
constructionwill occur inaccordance with the civil works schedule. Resettlers mustbe given at
least four months to buildtheir new houses before the demolition o f the old houses. Before new
house construction, a notice will be provided three months inadvance to allow for resettlement
site selection, planning,and development. Civil works will start after landacquisition i s
completed; landredistribution will be done duringwinter. All affected infrastructure will be
reconstructed before inundation.




                                                  - 83 -

Resettlement/Land CompensationOrganization

11.     BothGXCD and GDWB are inoverall charge o f implementingresettlement and land
compensation. A resettlement institutional structure has beenestablished ineachprovince and
this includes resettlementhompensation offices atprovincial, municipal, county, township and
village level. These offices will employ competent and experienced staff. Their respective
responsibilities and functions are detailed inthe RAPS.

Monitoring and Evaluation

12.     Both internal and external monitoring is planned for resettlement implementation. The
resettlement offices inGXCD and GDWB will be responsible for the internal monitoring.
External institutes will be appointedto undertake the independent monitoring o f the resettlement
programs. The monitoring scope, targets, indicators, procedures, methodology and reporting
requirements are described inthe RAP.

Resettlement and Land Compensation Cost

13.     The total resettlement cost is RMB284 million, equivalentto US$34.3 million, including
$25.0 million for Guangxi and $9.3 million for Guangdong. This budget includes the
compensationfund for land, houses andattached structures, infi-astructure and trees, various
relocation allowances, business loss duringtransition, costs o f environmental and cultural
property protection measures, reservoir clearance costs, special allowance for vulnerable groups,
management and monitoring costs, contingencies and taxes. All resettlement costs will be financed
by domestic funding.




                                                - 84 -

                                       AdditionalAnnex 13
               SocialAssessment and PovertyAlleviationImpactAssessment
                           CHINA Fourth InlandWaterways Project

1.    GXCD and GDWB engaged the Cross-CulturalResearchCenter o f Zhongshan University
and the GuangzhouSocial Science Academy to conduct social assessment and assessmentof the
project impacts on poverty reduction. Both institutes organized expert teams, consisting of
sociologists, anthropologists and economists as well as ethnic minority experts for the Guangxi
Component. Bothteams prepared working plans and developed guidelines for conducting group
meetings, interviews and questionnaires. Training was providedto the teams before field work
started. The assessmentwas conducted duringSeptember 2002 inGuangxi and April-July 2002
inGuangdong.

Social Assessment
2.    The social assessment exercises aimedto (i) the broad socioeconomic environmental
                                                     identify
and social development issues inthe project areas; (ii) stakeholders and solicit their
                                                          identify
perceptions, concerns, and recommendations for the project; (iii)    facilitate community
participationandmobilization inproject planning activities; (iv) assess the social impacts o f the
project andpropose measuresto address these impacts inline with World Bank policies; and (v)
identifyany ethnic minority communities inthe project areas, assessproject impacts on them, and
propose necessarymitigation measures.

3,    The social assessment included research o f statistics and historical records, meetings with
relevant departments inprovincial, county, township governments, interviews o fkey government
officials and surveys inthe sampled villages. The sample (six villages inGuangxiand 11villages
inGuangdong) was determinedonthe review ofthe project data, government statistics and
relevant academic researches. Both consultants employed participatory rural appraisal
methodologies for their work inthe sampled villages. They include focus group discussions,
interviews of key informants (leaders, elders, school teachers ) and questionnaire surveys. During
group discussions and village meetings, the assessment teams also employed community mapping,
resource diagramming, preference ranking, problem trees, seasonal calendars, and daily activity
charts. Separate groups were organized for women, ethnic minority groups and fishing
communities, as well people engaged inwaterway transport.

4.    The following are key findings.


  a) The project areas vary insocio-economic development. The Guangdong components
      spread out intwo areas north o f the Pearl Delta (XiniuandNorthRiver schemes) and west
      o f it (Lao-Long-Hu scheme). The former is largely a mountainous area, with agriculture as
      the dominant industryand limitednon-farm sector development. It is among the least
      developed areas o f the province. The latter i s inthe plain areas, a hometownfor overseas
      Chinese. Overseas investment has boostedits non-farm development inthe past two
      decades. Its agriculture is relatively developed, engaging more inaquaculture and
      agro-processing. The Guangxi component i s inthe Baise Prefecture, one o f the poorest
      areas o f the province. It has rich natural resources, with agricultural as its main industry.



                                                  - 85 -

Waterways offer a cheaper means o f communications but generally require improvement in
the local areas. The project is expected to improve access to markets, employment
opportunities and investment conditions. This project, with improved communication
conditions, is expected to facilitate economic development inthe local area and reduce
income disparity inthe provinces.

The project will affect large groups o f communities. These include people engagedin
fishing, people living on boats, andthose engagedinwaterway transport, who are all
expected to benefit from the project, as well as people who will lose assets to the project,
such as land and houses. Consultations with these different groups indicate that they mostly
believe the project will benefit them and promote local development. They have also
expressed concerns about adverse impacts andproposedmitigationmeasures.

Major adverse impacts are relatedto landacquisition and house demolition. Most concerns
are about information dissemination, transparency inresettlement planningprocess, full and
timely delivery ofcompensation fund, inadequate compensation rates anduseof
compensation funds. The recommendations o f the social assessmentteams have been
adopted inthe resettlement plans.

Most o f the project-affected people inGuangxi belong to the Zhuang ethnic group, the
largest officially recognizedminority group inChina. They are the majority inthe project
areas, about 77% of the total population inBaise Prefecture. The social assessment
reviewed social, economic, cultural and institutional aspects o f the Zhuang people inthe
project areas (history, language, traditions, festivities, religious beliefs, marriages, economic
activities, resources sharing, education, politicalrepresentation and opportunities to
development etc.) as well as interactions betweenZhuang and Hanpeople.

The social assessment concludedthat there is a clear self-identification among Zhuang
people, and they have maintained distinct features inlanguage, culture and social customs.
However, centuries of co-existence have ledto a significant level o f sharingandmutual
influencing betweenHanandZhuang groups. There are hardly any differences between
them inresources sharing, livelihood activities, institutions andpoliticalrepresentation. The
social assessment concluded that the measures developedinthe resettlement program are
ethnically and culturally appropriate and there i s no need for a free-standing ethnic minority
people's development plan. There are no ethnic minority communities inthe project areas in
Guangdong Component.

The social assessment reveals that women shoulder a large share o f the family
responsibilities. Inaddition to the farm work they share with their husbands, they have to
do the family chores and take care o f the animals as well as gardening. Those whose
husbands work away from the villages undertake a much heavier workload. Inmost cases,
women are not active invillage affairs, largely due to the heavy workload. Women enjoy
equal status inthe family because o f their crucial role. Local women are expecting to
benefit from the project by reducing fn-ewoodcollection withpower generation, shortening



                                           - 86 -

      traveling time to markets, replacing hand-pump irrigation with improved irrigation system
      with the project and better marketing o f farm products.

Assessment of Project Impact on Poverty Reduction

5.    The impact assessments were conducted on the basis o f the social assessments with some
additional fieldwork. They adopted the same approach andmethodology for the social
assessment, with the objective for a better understanding o f (i)  the natural environment and
social and economic development of the local areas; (ii)    poverty status, reasons for the poverty,
the government strategy and measuresto reduce poverty; and (iii)     perceptions o f localpeople o f
the project's impact.

      The team analyzed the collectedinformation andthe key findings are as follows,

     The project covers some o f the poorest areas o f GuangdongProvince and Guangxi Region.
     The Guangdongcomponents will have impacts insix of the sixteen poverty counties ofthe
     province, particularly the Xiniu andNorth River schemes, where the average GDP ranges
     between 20-30% of that o f the province. Baise and Tianyang counties of the Guangxi
     Component are bothprovince-designated poverty counties.

     There are many reasons for the poverty situation. They include poor natural conditions
     (mountainous area, little arable land or poor quality o f farmland), frequent natural disasters
     such as floods, few opportunities for non-farm development, weak agriculture extension and
     support system, little investment ininfrastructure development, a poor and inefficient
     transport system, and lack o f information and access to markets.

     Bothprovincial governments have developed long-term poverty reduction strategies with
     clear objectives andplans. The poverty counties and townships have all developed poverty
     reduction plans, following a multi-sectoral approach. The proposedproject fits inthis
     general strategy. The project i s expected to improve the transport systeminthe project
     areas, facilitate transfer o f local resources, promote tourism and improve local accessto
     markets and information.

     The majorityo fthe localpopulation support the project andbelieve it will help facilitate
     local economic development. They believe it will improve the local transport system, help
     reduce the cost of electricity and irrigation, generatejob opportunities, andpromote tourism
     development, as well as improve health and educationservices inthe long term.




                                                  - 87 -

- 88 -

MAP SECTION


