                                 Updated Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                               Report No: AB985

Project Name                     CHINA - Fourth Inland Waterways Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Ports, waterways and shipping (58%); Renewable energy (42%)
Theme                            Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Water resource
                                 management (P); Rural services and infrastructure (S); Public expenditure,
                                 financial management and procurement (S)
Project                          P077137
Borrower(s)                      PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Implementing Agency(ies)         GUANGXI ZHUANG AUTONOMOUS REGION & GUANGDONG
                                 PROVINCE
                                 Guangxi Communications Dept. project executed by Guangxi Xijiang Waterways
                                 Construction and Dev. Co. Ltd
                                 Address: 67 Xinmin Road, Nanning, Guangxi 530012, P.R. China
                                 Contact Person: Mr. Li, Shangyan
                                 Tel: 86-771-211-5065/86-771-262-0575            Fax:
                                 86-771-261-4441/86-771-280-5550              Email: wzbgs@public.nn.gx.cn

                                 Guangdong Communications Dept.; project executed by Guangdong Provincial
                                 Waterways Bureau
                                 Address: 195 Yanjiang Zhong Road, Guangzhou 510120, PR. China
                                 Contact Person: Mr. Chen, Zichao
                                 Tel: 86-20-8330-5766          Fax: 86-20-8332-3084          Email:
                                 wbwblpo@pub.guangzhou.gd.cn

                                 Ministry of Communications
                                 Address: 11 Jianguomennei Ave, Beijing 100736, P.R. China
                                 Contact Person: Ms. Xia Hong
                                 Tel: 86-10-6529-3158          Fax: 86-10-6529-3156          Email:
                                 xiahong@moc.gov.cn
Environment Category             A (Full Assessment)
Date PID Prepared                June 18, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date              August 19, 2003
Bank Approval Date               March 25, 2004

1. Country and Sector Background
The rapid growth of the Chinese economy has overloaded its transport network, which is
struggling to keep pace. In varying degrees the infrastructure of all transport modes has been
modernized and upgraded, but the tonnages to be moved have grown so fast and so broadly that
there have been long time lags before new capacity could be put into operation. The expansion of
cities has especially strained urban transport systems designed for far smaller populations. The
introduction of higher-capacity and higher-quality transport services ­notably long-distance
trucking--has also lagged behind demand. Private road transport operations are growing rapidly
but state-owned enterprises still have a substantial market share. Bottlenecks in infrastructure
have been the main focus of investments in all modes: roads, railways, waterways, and especially
urban transport. A sectorwide issue is how to ensure transparency in the awarding of contracts
(competitive bidding) and ensuring compliance with their price and quality provisions

                                                   2
                                                                                                   PID


(supervision). Bottlenecks in services remain serious. Because of the under-development of
China's services sector, the long inland distances, and the railway's concentration on its traditional
bulk cargoes, it was estimated in 1999 that China's logistics costs (transportation, warehousing
and distribution) were high at 18 % of GDP, compared to 9.5 % in the USA in the mid-1990s.
Moreover, whereas in developed economies transport accounts for 25% of the total logistics cost,
in China it was closer to half. Over the past five years big improvements have been made in the
transportation infrastructure and services in the coastal provinces, but the inland provinces are still
lagging.

Private sector participation in the growth of China's highway system is advanced in terms of both
development models and private capital flows. The private sector has contributed nearly 10% of
China's total commitment to new construction since the inception of economic reform in the early
1980s (high compared to most countries). However, the degree of risk transfer from the public
sector has been limited and obstacles to increased flows of funds are found in the legal and
regulatory framework for private participation in infrastructure.

Transport's role in promotion of trade: China's exports are crucial to the success of its
economy. However, internal transport costs are high, so that coastal provinces enjoy a
considerable advantage in competition with inland provinces. Part of the problem for the inland
provinces is distance; part is inefficiency or inappropriate pricing. Intermodal logistic chains are
weak. If the inland provinces are to share in the export boom --either directly or as suppliers of
inputs to manufacturers near the coast--, special efforts are required to improve their access to
seaports and to overcome resistance to cooperation across institutional boundaries. China's
membership of WTO requires opening up of transport services to foreign participation. This may
be good news for exporters but bad news for Chinese transport firms.

Issues related to roads: The Government faces many strategic choices: how to balance the
population's desire for greater personal mobility (car ownership) with protecting the environment
and especially air quality; how to balance spending on expressways with lower class roads; how
to share costs between national and provincial governments; how to finance highways ­whether
by tolls or through a user charge added to fuel; how to attract private finance and management
skills into road construction and maintenance; and how to make all roads safer. It also faces the
question: how far should it intervene to promote efficient service-oriented trucking companies in
the private sector, and by what means? Government spending has been concentrated heavily on
the expressways making up the national trunk highway network, raising questions whether
spending more on upgrading and maintaining existing roads might have done more to improve
access in poor regions. The legal framework for private participation in infrastructure needs
attention.

Railway issues: After careful deliberation and analysis of international experience, the
Government has adopted strategic goals for the national railway system, aiming to make it more
responsive to the market. It is gradually spinning off non-transport activities as independent
companies. In certain regions it has set up passenger services as profit centers separate from
freight. It plans to legally separate transport operations from government oversight, but it
remains to be decided how and when. Secondary strategic goals also need to be decided upon:

                                                  3
                                                                                                 PID


how far to enable competition among companies offering rail transport services (private or
otherwise); how far to allow pricing flexibility so that prices can reflect costs more closely,
service by service, and carriers and customers can enter into contracts covering not only price but
also service quality; and how to deal responsibly with surplus labor, as information technology
eliminates the need for many jobs.

Inland waterway issues: More than many countries, nature has blessed China with large
navigable rivers linking many of its major concentrations of population, especially in the center
and south where rainfall is high. Some rivers carry passengers; all carry large volumes of bulk
cargoes, especially coal, construction materials such as sand and gravel, timber, and mineral ores.
Many of these cargoes are hauled from rural areas (mines, quarries and forests) to urban areas for
processing. These mines, quarries and forests are often important sources of employment in poor
rural areas. However, on the rivers' upper reaches limited water depth prevents safe year-round
access by vessels over 100 tons. Many of the costs of operating vessels vary far less than their
carrying capacity, so larger vessels and sets of barges pushed by a single power unit can offer
substantially lower costs per ton carried. At relatively modest cost the navigation channels on
these rivers can be deepened sufficiently to enable much larger vessels to reach far upstream but
then may require periodic maintenance. Separating the power unit from the barges allows the
former to be kept in revenue-earning operation while the barges await loading and unloading.
Inland waterway transport (IWT) offers the added advantage that it has less impact on the
environment than rail or road transport. Accordingly, to ease the pressure of demand for new
roads and improved railways, the Government has recently stepped up investment in waterways to
deepen navigation channels and upgrade navigational aids, at the same time as it has undertaken
public works to control floods.

Government strategy
The Government is tackling all the above issues with varying degrees of success. Construction
goes well everywhere. The Government has decided in principle to introduce a fuel surcharge to
fund roads but has not yet passed legislation to implement it, apparently due to the complexity of
the issue and opposition from vested interests. Much remains to be done to make the roads safer,
especially on driver education and enforcement. A window of opportunity may be closing to take
tough action to restrain private car use, as one new car-manufacturing joint venture after another
is announced. On urban transport the more innovative cities are building undergrounds (metros)
or busways; some are improving traffic management and taking steps to make streets safer for
cyclists and pedestrians. Many are catering to private cars to excess, without addressing the
longer-term sustainability of car-based city land-use plans and the urgent need for an orderly
parking regime (space, charges and enforcement) and other measures to manage demand. The
Ministry of Railways, having announced its general intention to undertake `three separations',
needs now to set a timetable to implement them and address its surplus labor issue. The Ministry
of Communications (MOC) is drafting laws to govern inland waterways (the infrastructure) and
inland water transport (the services), to bring more consistency in relevant public policies from
province to province and to codify good practice. On export competitiveness the Government is
eager to improve access for inland provinces and is seeking ways to lower their transport costs
and strengthen the logistics services linking them with external markets.

                                                   4
                                                                                                  PID


2. Objectives
The Project's main objective is to improve access for poor regions of southern China by
upgrading navigation conditions on the region's major east-west river and other waterways
feeding traffic into the Pearl River Delta region. A secondary objective is to harness water flow in
two of these rivers to generate environmentally clean electricity to help meet growing energy
demand in the Province of Guangdong and the Autonomous Region of Guangxi.

3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Since both provinces are prior subborrowers from the Bank for major infrastructure, they know
what the Bank offers. They appreciate the savings that have accrued to them by virtue of the
Bank's international competitive bidding procedures. Even if almost all work contracts go to
Chinese firms, the Bank procedures are recognized as imposing demanding standards of
transparency and the bidders respond accordingly. It is also recognized that Bank-imposed
contract supervision ensures a high standard of compliance with the conditions of contract. The
risk of political interference is minimized. The Bank is also seen as adding value in its probing of
project alternatives to ensure adoption of the most cost-effective option, and in the window it
opens on international experience regarding complex project management and matters of public
policy. On the negative side the Bank's safeguards are seen as onerous and adding not much
value relative to compliance with Chinese laws on environmental and social impacts and
resettlement.

The above applies to all infrastructure. Why waterways? Until the mid-1990s China had spent
much on railways and highways but little on waterways; they remained technically outdated. The
Bank's support for waterways put the spotlight on them and encouraged the Government to invest
in them. The institutional arrangement for implementing the inland waterway projects in Guangxi
and Hunan and manage the waterways thereafter --proposed by the Bank-- has been innovative
for China: legally independent state-owned interprises, which for part of their budget have to rely
on revenue streams collected from users. These special-purpose firms have worked well so far
but they are still young and will benefit from further institutional advice and guidance as they
consolidate their roles.

The waterways' navigation function is vulnerable to the risk that priority may be given to use of
the river flow for other purposes, inimical to the stability sought for navigation. In its recent
water resources assistance strategy for China the Bank encourages the national and provincial
governments to adopt integrated water resource planning approaches. This project would
contribute a working example. For the Naji and Xiniu dams the Bank has encouraged the PMOs
to strengthen mechanisms to coordinate water releases from the dams immediately upstream or
downstream and resolve possible conflicts.

4. Description
A.      Guangdong: to improve navigation conditions and generate electricity through civil
works and associated investments on three waterways:
    1) Channel improvements and regulation works on the Lao-Long-Hu Waterway (about 16
        km), an east-west waterway in the Pearl River Delta network serving mainly traffic
        between the rural southwest of Guangdong and the special enterprise zones around
        Shenzhen, as well as Hong Kong, to allow vessels of up to 1,000 ton capacity to operate

                                                   5
                                                                                                  PID


        safely year-round;
    2) Replacement of two bridges over the Lao-Long-Hu Waterway, which are too low for the
        intended larger ships;
    3) Channel improvements on the middle reaches of the Bei (North) River between Shaoguan
        and Qingyuan (about 180 km) to allow vessels of up to 300 ton capacity to ply safely
        year-round;
    4) Construction of the Xiniu Navigation Complex on the Lian River, a tributary of the North
        River. It will consist of a 10.5m-high dam to regulate river depth, including a shiplock to
        assure a minimum 2.5m water depth above its sill, and a power plant of 10 MW capacity,
        two substations to link the Complex to the power grid serving the city of Yingde, and
        minor channel improvements on about 13 km;
    5) Purchase of turbines and other equipment for the powerhouse, and of lock gates; and
    6) Compensation to about 500 farmers for land to be flooded by the intended Xiniu reservoir.


B.      Guangxi: to allow navigation by vessels of up to 500 tons on the Right River (You Jiang)
between the cities of Baise and Nanning (357 km) and generate electricity, through civil works
and associated investments.
    1) Construction of the Naji Navigation Complex about 38 km downstream from Baise. It
        will consist of a 20m-high dam to regulate river depth, including a shiplock which will
        assure a minimum 2.5m of water above its entrance sill, and a power plant of 57 MW
        capacity; access roads to the Complex on both banks with a total length of about 9 km, a
        bridge across the river, bank protection, and two substations to link the power plant to the
        Baise grid;
    2) Purchase of turbines and other equipment for the above powerhouse, and of lock gates;
    3) Construction of dikes and dredging of shoals between Baise and Nanning and upgrading
        of navigational aids; and
    4) Resettlement of about 320 residents (farmers and others) living in the intended reservoir
        zone and along the alignment of the approach roads.

C.      Institutional strengthening and technical assistance (TA). To strengthen the technical
and management skills of personnel of the two project offices, consulting services and study tours
will be provided. The TA program is designed to meet the specific needs of each entity. In
Guangxi, the project entity was established as a commercial enterprise to develop and manage
navigational complexes. A relatively new company, its need is for assistance and policy support in
finance, planning and corporate management. Guangdong's project entity, on the other hand, is a
line department of the provincial government and its current objective is to acquire skills and
competency in the tools and techniques of administration. Topics covered by the program
include: (i) the financing, development and management of integrated water basin resources, (ii)
power plant operation and maintenance, (iii) power sales strategy and pricing, (iv) shiplock
operation and management, (v) procurement and contract management, (vi) development and
implementation of computer-based information systems to facilitate administrative control and
coordination, (vii) implementation of Internet-based systems to give waterway users information
on river flow, tide and draft conditions in real time, and (viii) environmental protection.

                                                  6
                                                                                                PID


The Bank loan will be split between Guangxi ($45 million) and Guangdong ($46 million); the loan
will cover 35 percent of the total financing required. The national government will contribute the
equivalent of $74 million (28 percent of the total) as an equity contribution from the national
budget.

5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($169.40)
IBRD ($91.00)
Total Project Cost: $260.40

6. Implementation
Executing Agencies. The implementing agencies of the project are the Guangxi Xijiang
Waterway Construction & Development Co. (GXWCDC) for the project components in Guangxi
and the Guangdong Waterway Bureau (GDWB) for the components in Guangdong. GXWCDC
is an independent legal entity established and wholly owned by Guangxi for the purpose of
developing and managing the region's network of inland waterways and currently manages and
operates the hydro-electric dams/navigation complexes at Guiping and Guigang, down river from
the Project works. GDWB is a line department of the Guangdong Provincial government with
direct responsibility for the province's inland waterways and reports to the Guangdong
Communications Department. Each implementing agency has set up a project management office
(PMO) which has a full-time team of technical staff with prior experience in implementing a
World Bank project. The Guangxi PMO brings together staff from GXDC and GXWCDC, many
of whom worked on the Bank-supported first Inland Waterways Project (IWW1), completed in
2001, which financed the Guigang dam and shiplock. The Guangdong PMO has managed
successfully its component of the on-going Second Inland Waterway Project (IWW2).


Funds Flow. The proceeds of the Bank loan will flow from the Bank to the provincial finance
bureaus (PFB) where the special accounts will be set up, to the project implementing agencies (or
project company), and finally to contractors or suppliers. The loan will be with the People's
Republic of China through its Ministry of Finance (MOF), and on-lending agreements will be
signed between MOF and the governments of Guangxi and Guangdong through their PFBs, and
between each PFB and the implementing agencies -- supervised, in the case of Guangxi, by the
regional Communications Department. The lown will be disbursed using traditional technicques
and not based on project management reports, in accordance with a general agreement between
the Bank and MOF.

Project Management Activities

    Procurement. An institutional assessment conducted before appraisal shows that adequate
    skills are available to manage the procurement operation. A procurement plan has been
    developed as part of the Project Implementation Plan.

    Financial management. Responsibilities for all financial management activities were likewise
    confirmed before appraisal. A finance management specialist has reviewed the current set-up
    and found it adequate to manage project funds. A financial management manual has been

                                                    7
                                                                                                 PID


    developed by each Client.

    Environment. Each Province has submitted an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and
    an Environmental Action Plan (EAP), which the Bank has reviewed and found satisfactory.
    Responsibilities for all environmental management activities are included in the Plans.

    Resettlement. Each Province has prepared a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), which sets out
    responsibilities for implementing resettlement. The have been reviewed ad found satisfactory
    by the Bank.

Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Each Project Office has prepared a PIP for their respective
component(s). which the Bank has reviewed.

7. Sustainability
The potential response of the market to the availability of improved water transport infrastructure
will depend on many factors, most of them beyond the control of the project implementing
agencies. In the Bank-financed first Inland Waterways Project, completed in 2001, the average
size of vessels passing through the Guigang lock increased 17% in the first year of operation and a
further 44% the following year. In light of the experience, both Guangxi and Guangdong do not
propose to intervene in the market to stimulate the transition to larger vessels. However, both
PMOs will monitor traffic volumes against the forecasts, so that they can modify this decision and
consider intervening if the traffic fails to meet their expectations. As noted in the preceding
section, the Xiniu Dam is the case where this would be most critical to achieving a satisfactory
return on investment.

There is little doubt that the electricity generated by the two proposed dams will be purchased by
the local power distribution companies. Today generating capacity is short; in the future the low
marginal cost of hydro-electricity will make it attractive. The national government is seeking
ways to reduce acid rain, putting hydro-electricity in a strong position. Furthermore, the peak
season for electricity demand (air conditioning) coincides with the peak rains; the driest months
(late autumn) fortunately are also months of low power demand in the South. GDWB has
reached provisional agreement with the power purchaser on the purchase price of power to be
generated in Xiniu. Power pricing is included in the technical assistance to assist GXWCDC in
negotiating the sale of power generated in Naji.

                                                  8
                                                                                                 PID


8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
As repeat borrowers, the implementing agencies for the proposed project have drawn useful
lessons from the experiences of the one completed inland waterway transport project financed by
the Bank in China (the Guigang dam in Guangxi and the Dayuandu dam in Hunan), and the two
on-going projects: IWW2 in Guangdong and Jiangsu and IWW3 in Hunan (Zhuzhou Dam). The
project agencies have learned international good practice on procurement, cost estimation, and
preparation of environmental assessments and resettlement plans in accordance with Bank
requirements, including wide consultation with stakeholders. Joint ventures of international and
Chinese consultants have advised on techniques for efficient collecting of data on fleets and ports,
as a basis for monitoring the achievement of project objectives. Consultants have also assessed
the potential impact of fleet restructuring on employment in IWT, and developed programs for
improved navigational aids and management information systems.

The proposed project will enable Guangdong and Guangxi to take these institution-building
measures to the next logical stage.

9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
      Issues   :
The environmental assessment was entrusted to independent institutes in each province. Drafts of
their Environmental Impact Assessment reports (EIAs) and Environmental Action Plans (EAPs)
were reviewed by the Bank. Public consultation was conducted twice: once just after completion
of the draft TOR of the EIA and the other after completion of the draft EIA. The final EIAs and
EAPs have been submitted to the Bank for review, found satisfactory and disclosed at InfoShop.

This project will cause environmental impacts similar to those that have been experienced under
the previous inland waterway projects. The potential major environmental issues during
construction are water pollution control, waste material dumping, protection of residential areas,
and protection of ecological environment. Those impacts will be mitigated to the levels that
satisfy national and local environmental standards, provided that mitigation measures described in
the EAPs are appropriately implemented.

The following are the main mitigation measures for each sub-component.

Naji Navigation Complex:
 l The dam/shiplock will be built within a cofferdam format. Generation of suspended solids
      will be carefully controlled through the use of silt curtains and settling ponds.
 l To address interference with migratory fish patterns, the Project Office will establish fish
      conservation centers. The provincial governments are now considering establishing fish
      conservation centers, the purpose of which might include the rehabilitation of biodiversity in
      the reservoir.
 l On the recommendation of the relevant authority, the project will excavate 1,000 square
      meters of Poluo Relics to protect some pre-historic artefacts found in an area that will be
      flooded by the reservoir.

Lao-Long-Hu Waterway regulation:
 l Dredged materials will be disposed of in the former navigational channel (replaced by the

                                                  9
                                                                                                 PID


      new Sanjiaowei Bend) and several upland sites. At the latter, dredged materials will be
      hydraulically pumped from barges to the disposal sites, the effluent of which will be carefully
      regulated to control suspended solids.

North River regulation:
 l During dredging works, silt curtains will be used to protect water quality.
 l Dredged materials will be dumped at designated dumping areas within the river.
 l No blasting will be conducted and regulation work will avoid fish reproduction seasons.


Xiniu Navigation Complex:
 l The dam/shiplock will be built within a cofferdam format. Generation of suspended solids
      will be carefully controlled through the use of silt curtains and settling ponds.
 l A wastewater treatment facility will be installed to treat the wastewater from the
      construction camp in order to protect the water intake for Xiniu Town.
 l Dredged material, to the extent suitable, will be used either as part of the dam foundation or
      as part of three new river regulation spurs. Unsuitable material will be dumped at
      designated dumping areas in the river.



10. List of factual technical documents:



11. Contact Point:

     Task Manager
     John Scales
     The World Bank
     1818 H Street, NW
     Washington D.C. 20433
     Telephone: +1 202 473-5414
      Fax: +1 202 522-3573

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax:    (202) 522-1500
         Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop

Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.

