Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9175
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
(LOAN 2043-ME)
DECEMBER 11, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
BANRURAL    - National Bank for Rural Credit
CONASUPO    - National Marketing Corporation for Basic Foods
DICONSA     - Distribuidora Central de CONASUPO
FICART      - Trust Fund for Credit in Irrigated Areas
FIRA        - Agriculture Trust Funds of the Bank of Mexico
GIRA        - General Interest Rates Agreement
GOM         - Government of Mexico
INI         - National Indigenous Affairs Institute
M&E         - Monitoring and Evaluation
NAFINSA     - Nacional Financiera, S.A.
PCR         - Project Completion Report
PDR         - Investment Program for Regional Development
PIDER       - Integrated Investment Program for Rural Development
SAM         - Mexican Food Plan
SAP         - Special Assistance Program
SAR         - Staff Appraisal Report
SARH        - Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
SPP         - Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting



FOR OMCIAL USE ONL
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D C 20433
U.S A
OVKe Of DvWcKt,-C..al
Opwatme I{tout" .
December 11, 1990
MEMORANDUM. TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Mexico
Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER III *(Loan 2043-ME)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Mexico - Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER
III (Loan 2043-ME)" prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regional
Office with Part  II of the  report contributed by the Borrower.   This
project has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization._



FOR OFFICIAL USE ON.
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
(Loan 2043-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Be lb,
PREFACE .          ...................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ........................................ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project  Identity  ............. ..........  ...........1
2.   Backround  .            .........................................1
3.   Project Objectives  and Description  .....                  ............             2
4.   Project Design and Organization  ....................                                3
5.   Project  Implementation  .............................                               4
6.   Project Results  ....................................                                5
7.   Project Sustainability  .............................                                7
8.   Bank Performance  ...................................                                8
9.   Borrower Performance  ...............................                                9
10.  Project Relationship  ...............................                                9
11.  Consulting Services  ................................                               10
12.  Project Documentation and Data  .....................                               10
PART  II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Introduction  ........................................                             13
2.   Performance  .........................................                             14
3.   Comments  on PCR,  Part III  .......... ...........  .....                         14
4.   Lessons Learned  .....................................                              15
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1:   Related Bank Loans  ..............              ..     .............           17
TABLE 2:   Project Timetable and Project Schedule ..........                              19
TABLE 3:   Cumulative  Estimated and Actual Disbursements  ..                             22
TABLE 4:   Prujoct  Implementation  ............             ..     ...........           24
TABLE 5:   Project Costs and Financing  ..........               .. ........              25
TABLE 6:   Studies           ......................       ..................              28
TABLE 7:   Status of Covenants  ....... .....................                             29
TABLE 8:   Uses of Staff Resources  ............               ..    ..........           31
ANNEX 1:   Survey of Rural Development  Projects                                                  33
MAP - IBRD 15264
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



X i -
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
(LOAN 2043-14E)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.        This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Integrated
Rural Development Project - PIDER III in Mexico, for which Loan 2043-ME
in the amount of US$175.0 million was approved on July 21, 1981. The
loan was closed on December 31, 1988, two years and nine months after
planned closing. It was fully disbursed and the last disbursement was
on August 1, 1989.
2.        The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division,
Country Department II, of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). On October 3, 1989, the
Bank provided the Borrower Parts I and III with the request to prepare
Part II. The Borrower replied February 16, 1990 and detailed
discussions were held thereafter. Agreement was reached on the PCR in
May 1990.
3.        Preparation of this PCR was started in June 1988 during the
Bank's next to last supervision mission of the project. At that time a
survey to determine project benefits was designed and subsequently
implemented between August and October 1988 by the Mexican National
Institute of Statistics and Geography (INEGI). Following a change in
Administration in December 1988, the Executing Agency carried out in
December 1989 a second similar survey with a larger sample than INEGI's
to obtain better data on perceived benefits. The PCR is based, inter
alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); the Loan, Guarantee, and
Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; the Borrower project progress
reports; and the results of the two surveys.



- iii -
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
(LOAN 2043-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.        Early in the 1970's, the Government launched a Program for
Rural Development Investments (PIDER) to redress the economic and social
imbalance in selected micro-regions (MRs). Bank support for PIDER was
requested and two loans were made in 1975 and 1977. In May 1980,
Government issued a P3licy Paper on PIDER re-focusing program objectives
to: a) promote a self-sustained development process within rural
communities and b) guarantee access to goods and services which provide
adequate living standards. The PIDER III objective was to increase the
development impact of the existing program by supporting Government's
efforts to expand and intensify activities in seventeen selected MRs
located in the states of Guerrero, Sinaloa, Yucatan, and Zacatecas.
PIDER III investments were in productive, support and infrastructure
categories and expected to: increase production of basic foods;
generate higher productivity and per-capita income; raise employment
levels in rural communities; and improve living conditions.
Implementation Experience
2.        The project became effective May 1982, the year of two
devaluations and economic deterioration of crisis proportion. Start-up
activities were delayed due to insufficient counterpart funds and a
change in political administration which instituted reorganization, a
freeze on hiring and considerable staff movements at various levels of
Government. Disbursements proceeded slowly and improved only once the
MR planning and Bank financing was modified.
3.        In January 1984, the Covernment consolidated various programs,
including PIDER, undAr the Regional Development Program (PDR). The
micro-region as the main programming unit was abolished in favor of
state regional planning, the rural poverty focus was reduced, and
program-budgeting was simplified and streamlined.
Physical execution progressed well and some components exceeded
significantly appraisal estimates. However, similar problems as under
previous PIDERs continued: poor timing of financing and coordination
with executing agencies, little technical follow-up, and low operations
and maintenance. The causes of such weaknesses were largely
attributable to the nature of the programming cycle, inter-relations
between funding and executing institutions as defined by annual
agreements (CUD) and lack of adequate monitor . 3nd evaluation.



- iv -
Results
4.        The project achieved its principal objective of raising the
development impact of the Government's existing program. PIDER III and
subsequently PDR investments contributed to: (a) growth increase in
infrastructure for economic and basic social needs which improved the
quality of life of very many people and would have been far less without
the project; and (b) important, though less tangible and more varied,
institutional development: clearer acceptance and recognition of
respective roles and improved capability in programming, budgeting and
monitoring at federal and state levels. The project expanded geographic
coverage; however, the intensity of effort per beneficiary declined
sharply.
5.        Various project design modifications, especially the 1984
consolidation of PIDER into PDR and abandonment of feasibility planning
and monitoring as envisaged at effectiveness, changed the base of
measurement against which project imptct could be evaluated. Some sub-
project records also were destroyed in the 1985 earthquake.
Consequently, overall project assessment became of necessity based more
on impressions than on objectively verifiable data. The Government
considers project results not to be strictly quantifiable, but
qualitative.
6.        Two surveys were carried out.  They indicate that
beneficiaries generally rated projects a success (by 65% according to
the INEGI survey), almost evenly distributed among productive, support
and infrastructure categories. Productive projects were rated better by
beneficiaries than World Bank supervision missions.
Sustainability
7.        The project was more complex than previous PIDERs and lost its
priority and poverty focus once economic constraints set in and
administrative reorganizations were made. The risks to such changes
were not properly calibrated. PIDER investments usually were small and
in sectors where operations and maintenance (O&M) are critical to
sustain benefits. A large portion of expenditures went to
infrastructure rather than the expected productive projects. Government
had to rehabilitate many previous PIDER investments. Records are
incomplete to clearly demonstrate the most cost effective project
elements which merit replication.
8.        To sustain project gains, Government will need to continue
vigilance of completed works and anticipate rehabilitative requirements.
Transferring revenue functions to states and municipalities would bring
responsibility for determining trade-offs between expansion and
rehabilitation closer to beneficiaries and further develop institutional
capabilities in resources management. The monitoring and evaluation
system in the follow-on project would be improved significantly to
ensure that information on the deterioration of previous investments be
channeled into the planning process.



-v -
Lessons Learned
9.        PIDER III provides lessons for improvement for both the
Borrower and the Bank. They are to: (a) ensure better integration of
reedback from Bank evaluations of preceding or similar projects at
project preparation; (b) devise measures which allow programs to
transcend institutional discontinuities, (c) require in-depth
evaluations as a pre-condition to making fundamental changes in project
design, (d) return to programming investments, at every administrative
level, with a more long-term perspective so that prospective actions in
related program areas can be more appropriately integrated; (e) apply
more thoroughly economic, financial and technical appraisal criteria for
sub-project investments and ensure adherence; (f) establish a workable
and effective project monitoring and evaluation system; and (g) re-
introduce beneficiary participation as an integral component in sub-
project identification, cost-sharing (especially for operations and
maintenance) and monitoring and evaluation. The Borrower's own
assessment of lessons learned includes points (d) and (e) and the need
for projects to be designed with greater flexibility to respond to
social demands. Some other lessos assume special importance. The
project was too complex (22 subcomponents), making its overall
management and supervision more difficult than previous PIDERs.
10.       Similar problems as under previous PIDERs existed (little
technical follow-up, often poor timing of financing and credit,
irregular coordination between SPP and SARH), attributable in part to
the programming cycle, the inter-relations between funding and executing
institutions and poor monitoring and evaluation. The depth of
institutional risk was insufficiently measured.  The change in political
administration and the concomitant modification in priorities, policies
and organizational structures and procedures far exceeded SAR
expectations.  Economic and financial crisis were not included in risks
and were the cause of many implementation variances.  The Bank pursued
an ever larger, more complex project with more numerous components than
before. Emphasis on participation and institutional decentralization,
while a positive step in attempting to rectify previous PIDER ills,
lacked objective definitions in the pr:oject design for measuring
progress at various administrative levels.
11.       Many of these lessons have in fact teen incorporated in the
Regional Decentralization and Development Project under preparation.



MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
(LOAN 2043-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIF.W FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Proiect Name:  Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER III
Loan No.:       2043-ME
RVP Unit:       LA2AG
Country:        Mexico
Sector:         Agriculture
Subsector:     Rural Development
2.  Backgroun
1.2.1     Sector Development Objectives.  In the early 1970's, the
Government made a commitment to redress the imbalance in rural
development by initiating major new institutions and investment programs
including a Program for Rural Development Investments (PIDER) designed
to channel coordinated multi-sectoral investment packages to benefit the
rural poor in selected micro-regions (MRs). 1/  Government requested
Bank support for the PIDER program and the first loan of US$110 million
(Loan 1110-ME PIDER I) was made in 1975 to assist in financing 30 new
MRs. With Bank advice the program focus was changed from primarily
infrastructure support to an emphasis on productive investments to
promote self-sufficiency and improve income distribution. Such
investments were complemented with the necessary support services and
social infrastructure to ensure balanced development. Basic
infrastructure for productive purposes was provided free through public
grants to collective groups of small farmers.   PIDER II (Loan 1462-ME
for US$120 million to finance 20 MRs and made in 1977) continued these
general objectives but gave greater attention to strengthening
coordination mechanisms at federal, state and MR levels. PIDER III
aimed to build on previous PIDER achievements, experience and
capability.
1.2.2     Policy  Context.  The PIDER program was established to focus
public investment in well-defined regions with widespread poverty and
with unrealized productive potential. The program helped concentrate
the efforts of various Government secretariats and agencies to carry out
investments and provide services. PIDER established the mechanism
1/   Micro-region was a basic planning unit comprised of target villages
ranging from 300 to 3,000 population living in three or more
adjacent municipalities vithin a state and having 'productive
potential'. Under PIDER III the target village base was changed to
500 - 5,000 inhabitants.



necessary to maintain consistency between actions of the different
agencies and served as the channel through which additional budget
resources were provided to the agencies for work in the PIDER micro-
regions. Under PIDER I and II, MR plans were prepared at the federal
level for multi-year and multi-sectoral investments. A mid-term
evaluation of PIDER I in 1978 served to somewhat reorient the approach
in 1980 to give state governments a larger role in PIDER planning and
implementation, assign responsibility for AR programming to micro-
regions and increase the participation of beneficiaries in project
planning and execution. These arrangements were to ensure that programs
would be better adapted to both local conditions and the expressed needs
of beneficiaries and serve the policy goals of raising the productivity
of human and natural resources and the welfare of the rural poor.
1.2.3     Linkages Between Project. Sector. and Macro Policy Objectives.
The project was an outgrowth of two previous efforts to support
integrated rural development on a sustainable basis and was linked with
attempts to address such concerns from varying sector viewpoints and in
different agro-climatic environments (See Part III, Table 1).
3. Proiect Obiectives and Description
1.3.1     Proiect Objectives.  In May 1980, Government issued a PIDER
Policy Paper that defined program objectives to be: a) promote a self-
sustained development process within rural communities and h) guarantee
access to goods and services which provide adequate living standards.
The PIDER III objective was to increase the development impact of the
existing program by supporting Government's efforts to expand and
intensify activities in seventeen selected micro-regions Z2 located in
the states of Guerrero, Sinaloa, Yucatan, and Zacatecas. The purposes
of the specific PIDER III investments were to: a) increase production
of basic foods; b) generate higher productivity and per-capita income;
c) expand basic infrastructure (roads, electrification, etc.); d) raise
employment levels in rural communities; and e) improve living conditions
in terms of nutrition, health, education, housing and drinking water.
1.3.2     Components.  The project was to finance equin.ment, works,
services and credit of 22 components .2/ divided among productive
2.!  Eight MRs were appraised:  Mocorito-Badiraguato and Norte in
Sinaloa state, Valparaiso and Tlaltenango in Zacatecas, Costa Chica
and Atoyac in Guerrero, and Litoral Norte and Sur in Yucatan. The
remaining nine to be financed were Cosala-Elota and Sur in Sinaloa;
Rio Grande, Fresnillo-Calera and Pinos in Zacatecas; Oriente in
Yucatan; and Costa Grande, Ometepec and Cu&ahtemoc in Guerrero.
2]   These were small-scale irrigation, soil and water conservation,
crop development, infrastructure for livestock development,
forestry, fishery, rural enterprises, credit, extension and applied
(continued...)



investments (61%), support projects (26%), social infrastructure (10%),
and project organization and management (3%). Like PIDER II, the
follow-on project was expected to be completed in four years.
4. Project Design and Organization
1.4.1     The conceptual foundation of the project reflected the state
of thinking of th3 times and PIDER was institutionally innovative: the
"leading edge" in the 1970's. The basic characteristic of PIDER as a
coordinating mechanism of a large number of diverse investments,
executed by many different agencies and managed within the Secretariat
of Programming and Budgeting (SPP), was first questioned in the OED
Audit of PIDER I (June 1981). The audit raised the issues of whether
the PIDER approach was justified when costs are considered in relation
to achievements. i/  Discussion of this issue came too late to be
incorporated into PIDER III (Board approval, July 1981).
1.4.2     On several occasions the Government expressed priority for
continuing Bank support of PIDER. It also demonstrated strong
commitment to rural poverty alleviation with issuance of the PIDER
Policy Paper, launching of the Mexican Food Plan (March 1980) designed
to improve nutritional levels of the rural poor, and developing with
Bank assistance a programming methodology involving, for the first time,
beneficiarit,s in the preparation of MR plans. The methodology,
developed by SPP and CIDER, was to be piloted in the four project states
before being replicated nationwide. The project contained a number of
other innovative components and new institutional elements which
strengthened the design over previous PIDERs: new livestock investment
methodology, more productive components, pilot nutrition and women in
development (WID) components, staff and beneficiary training, equipment
for data processing, and conditions for developing a sound monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) system and providing adequate staff for operating
it. However, the addition of each component further increased the
complexity of the project and made its overall management and
supervision more difficult than previous PIDERs.
3 1.3     The process of project preparation and appraisal took more
.ime and cost more in Bank staff support than was expected. (See Part
III) At least four different kinds of projects were contemplated.
These were partly in response to a highly volatile administrative and
i/... continued)
research, marketing, beneficiary organization, rural roads, rural
electrification, productive projects for women, feasibility and
socio-economic studies, education facilities, health facilities,
nutrition program, water supply, self-help, monitoring and
evaluation and training.
i/   The Government believed that the intangible benefits achieved
offset all costs and made the project highly attractive.



- 4 -
economic situation and pressure from new programs competing with PIDER
for priority and resources. Delays in devoloping a new methodology
whereby MR programming would be carried out contributed to preventing
the 17 selected MRs from completing their development plans. 5J At the
Initial Issues Paper stage, eight MR plans had been appraised; there was
concern that insufficient justification existed to finance the remaining
nine MRs which lacked plans. As with similar agriculture sector
projects at this time in Mexico, the availability of counterpart funds
did not surface before 1982. Draft loan negotiation documents were
considered to contain an unusually large number of conditions. By the
time of Board approval, a very complex project design had been well
prepared and agreed upon.
5. Project Implementation
1.5.1     Critical Variances in Protect Implementation.  The project
became effective May 1982, almost one year after appraisal estimate. It
was the year of two devaluations and economic deterioration of crisis
proportion. Start-up activities were delayed due to insufficient
counterpart funds and a change in political administration which
instituted reorganization, a freeze on hiring and considerable staff
movements at various levels of Government. Field activities in the 8
appraised MRs were started quickly, but with less counterpart funds.
Preparation and Bank approval of the remaining nine MR plans, a
condition for disbursement, encountered difficulties and changes. MR
plans, submitted by Government, i/ were found by the Bank lacking in
analysis and considered of lower quality than those used during
appraisal. Disbursements proceeded slowly and improved only once the MR
planning was modified.
1.5.2     Unforseen Factors Affecting Implementation.  In January 1984,
the Government consolidated various programs, including PIDER, under the
Regional Development Program (PDR). The micro-region as the main
programmirng unit was abolished in favor of state regional planning, the
rural poverty focus was somewhat reduced, the PIDER name became subsumed
under PDR and programme-budgeting was simplified and streamlined. At
the national level, SPP could still identify PIDER with regards to
external funding sources, while the states were free to plan and budget
their annual investments within one framework under a global funding
ceiling. Principal responsibility for state planning and budgeting
rested in the State Committees of Development Planning (COPLADES) and
SPP approved all state budgets at national level. The administrative
advantages of this reorganization were generally supported by the Bank.
However, these changes, combined with economic and financial
constraints, compounded initial disbursement problems (see Part III,
Table 3). By November 1984, two months after appraisal estimated
V/   For PIDER I all 30 MRs were appraised.
bj   9 MR plans in October 1982, 4 MR plans in January 1984.



- 5 -
project completion, disb-:rsements reached only 25% and there were
considerations to suspend the loan.
1.5.3     In contrast, physical progress advanced well and for some
components far exceeded appraisal estimates. The exchange rate
difference between appraisal and implementation 1/ distorted these
results and the Bank during supervision concluded this measurement of
progress would unlikely be accurate over the life of the project given
economic prospects.  Field visits indicate, a wide variation in
performance: in some states smaller rather than larger productive
projects fared better and received strong technical assistance; at other
times, this situation seemed reversed. Sinilar problems as under
previous PIDERs existed (little technical follow-up, often poor timing
of financing and credit, irregular coordination between SPP and SARH),
attributable in part to the programming cycle, the inter-relations
between funding and executing institutions and poor monitoring and
evaluation.
1.5.4     Disbursements.  A Special Actions Program (SAP) was
established in 1984 by the Bank to facilitate disbursements of seven
different Bank financed projects, including PIDER III. It increased
Bank financing from 42% to 70%, and established a special fund which
could be drawn upon for expenditures. Six new states were to be added
but finally project coverage was not expanded beyond the four original
states. Disbursements improved and were completed on time per the
revised schedule - three years after appraisal estimate.
1.5.5     Pzoject Risks.  At appraisal project risks were limited to
institutional and climatic factors, which at the time seemed realistic
and well calibrated. In retrospect, the depth of institutional risk was
insufficiently measured.  The change in political administration and the
concomitant modification in priorities, policies and organizational
structures and procedures far exceeded SAR expectations. Economic and
financial crisis were not included in risks and were the cause of many
implementation variances.
6. Project Results
1.6.1     Project Objectives.  In general, the project was successful in
meeting its principal objective of increasing the development impact of
the Government's existing program. PIDER III and subsequently PDR
investments did contribute to increasing the production of basic foods,
generating higher income, raising employment and improving living
conditions. As with previous PIDERs, more precise quantification of
benefits in relation to cost and better determination of project impact
are difficult to establish but under PIDER III, for somewhat different
reasons. Various project design modifications, but especially the 1984
consolidation of PIDER into PDR and abandonment of feasibility planning
2/   Mex$23 - US$1 and Mex$200 - US$1 in 9/1984



-6
as well as the M&E system as envisaged at effectiveness, changed the
base of measurement against which project impact could be evaluated.
Aggregated annual programme authorizations arnd financial and physical
implementation became the only means of monitoring progress. No attempt
was made to relate these investments with other actions in the same
sector or geographic area or over time. _/ As every year contained
considerable variation in sub-component financing and execution,
comparisons of component performance on only the annual fiscal and
physical dimensions also have limited utility. Hence, overall project
assessment is of necessity based more on impressions than on objectively
verifiable data.
1.6.2     Physical Performance.  In every social infrastructure
(education, water supply, health facility) and productive support
category (roads, electrification and rural marketing) the project
produced more outputs than planned. 2/
1.6.3     To provide more detailed information on project investments,
the Government carried out two surveys of PDR financed sub-projects.
According to the first survey, carried out by INEGI, beneficiaries rated
65% of the projects a success, almost evenly distributed among
productive, support and infrastructure categories. Productive projects
were rated better by beneficiaries than by World Bank supervision
missions. There was significant variation among states, especially
evident regarding the overall intensity of beneficiary participation.
Whereas this averaged 58% it was significantly higher for productive
investments (ranging from 70% to 89% and the lowest for support projects
(between 32% and 51%). Financial participation by beneficiaries to
total project cost was disappointing (averaging only 5.6%) and did niot
reach the 10% anticipated in the SAR. (See Annex 1, Part III for
additional results.) The second Government survey 10/, while covering a
far larger sample (934 vs 193), found similar results on overall income
improvements and types of problems encountered but some differences
among types of projects regarding sufficient technical and financial
support and O&M. The D.G.P.P.R. findings rated projects results better
in these categories than the INECI informants.
1.6.4     Financial Performance.  With the emergence of the economic
crisis, the Government could not maintain the level of planned financing
and the final project costs show a substantial lower level than expected
at appraisal. 11/ The main differences in financing were in the
distribution of investments, which ranged from 30.% for productive, 142%
2/   GOM, 1988 Annual Progress Report, Mexico, 8/1989, p. 3.
i/   See Table 4, Part III.
LO/ Carried out by SPP, Direccion General de Programacion y Presupuesto
Regional (D.G.P.P.R.)
LI_/  See Table 5A and B, Part III.



for support and 249% for social infrastructure (at current prices) as
compared to appraisal estimates. Given the paucity of reliable and
disaggregated economic data by type of project, the Government indicated
to the Bank 12/ that it would be very difficult to calculate a financial
rate of return or a meaningful economic rate of return. The Government
added that the benefits of the projects are not strictly quantifiable,
but rather qualitative and that these have a multiplier effect in PIDER
areas on such variables as employment, income and social welfare.
7. Project Sustainability
1.7.1     PIDER investments generally were small and in sectors where
operations and maintenance (O&M) are critical to sustain benefits.
There was little follow-up of investment and poor O&M was a pervasive
problem. Beneficiaries rated O&M differently relative to type of
project; for example, the second Government survey 1/ found that
beneficiaries considered O&M for rural roads to be 64.1% satisfactory.
Nevertheless, Government had to rehabilitate many PIDER. Beneficiaries
also regarded productive projects more profitable and sustainaible than
indicated in Bank supervision reports. Sinaloa presented the worst
scores (56%), mainly due to the failure of productive projects, followed
by Zacatecas (60%) and Guerrero (69%). Yucatan had the highest score
(84%) of perceived successful projects. A summary analysis of the INEGI
survey findings by productive, social and physical infrastructure
projects is contained in Annex 1, Part III.
1.7.2     To sustain project gains, Government will need to continue
vigilance of completed works and anticipate rehabilitative requirements.
Transferring revenue functions to states and municipalities would bring
responsibility for determining trade-offs between expansion and
rehabilitation closer to beneficiaries and further develop institutional
capabilities in resources management. The existing monitoring system
would need to be improved significantly to ensure that information on
the deterioration of previous investments be channeled into the planning
process and taken into account as an ongoing component of recurrent
financing. Greater efforts and suitable institutional mechanisms to
pass this kind of monitoring function to municipalities and
beneficiaries will help safeguard erosion of past investments. Most of
these recommendations are already incorporated in the design of the
follow-on project. L/
12/  Letter to LA2AG of 5-30-1990.
1.j/ SPP/D.G.P.P.R. January 1990
1_/ Regional Decentralization and Development Project for the
Disadvantaged States.



- 8 -
8. Bank Performance
1.8.1     The Bank made a positive contribution to project design and
financial sustainability, especially during economically difficult
periods.  During project preparation, Bank strengths included a firm
commitment to poverty alleviation and in-depth knowledge of rural
sectoral issues and Mexican institutions, acquired over a long period of
association with PIDER and continuity in task management (over seven
years). These strengths waved significantly once the project became
effective.
1.8.2     Some of the Bank's strengths also were the source of
weaknesses. Familiarity and strong identity with PIDER diminished
appreciation that the program was loosing priority among Mexican
authorities. The threat that PIDER would be integrated into a larger
program surfaced during project preparation. This and the economic
prospects, which greatly affected counterpart financing, were
insufficiently calibrated as risks. The Bank pursued an ever larger,
more complex project with more numerous components than before.
Emphasis on participation and institutional decentralization, while a
positive step in attempting to rectify previous PIDER ills, lacked
objective definitions in the project design for measuring progress at
various administrative levels. A good opportunity may have been lost
for building on technical strengths, identified during PIDER I mid-term
evaluation, and selectively expanding proven economically successful
components (eg small scale irrigation, soil and water conservation,
small versus large livestock). The evaluation feed-back loop, to which
the Bank project design team assigned high priority for PIDER III, could
have been much stronger within the Bank at project preparation.
1.8.3     During implementation Bank action helped:  a) preserve a focal
point within SPP on Bank financed PDR investments; b) secure a
reorientation in investment financing policy from new projects to the
completion of old and rehabilitation of unproductive ones; c) initiate
pilot coordination seminars and training activities for SPP staff and
beneficiaries; and d) begin a flow of impact data (which was
subsequently discontinued). The Bank readily took measures to sustain
the financial life of the project through the SAP. It was less
forthright in preserving the innovative aspects and poverty orientation
of PIDER III. A harder look should have been taken when loan suspension
was considered (11/84). An effective supervision methodology to cope
with the many project components and activities was not developed. It
could have provided a useful means for demonstrating the significance of
project design changes and the impact of institutional restructuring.
Changing task management (four managers between 1980 - 89), lack of
adequate macro-monitoring indicators (partly due to only 8 of 17 MRs
having been appraised), and continued institutional reorganization
inhibited preparation of such a methodology. Several attempts were made
in 1983 and 1984 to establish macro-indicators for monitoring the
project (See Table 4, Part III). These were undermined by a continuing
deteriorating economic climate, which required constant revisions in



targets, and changes in programming and M&E administrative arrangements
an  staffing.  Supervision missions during the last two years of project
life were mostly concerned with disbursement and follow-on project
issues rather than reorienting priorities to greater emphasis on poverty
alleviation, productive investments and rural development. While such
insistence might not have changed the final project outcome, the lack of
it indirectly supported the deviation in project design.
9. Borrower Performance
1.9.1     Government contributed particularly in the early years of
project design and implementation: providing high qualified staff to
develop micro-regional plans, programming methodology, and M&E design,
guidelines and training; giving high priority to the main project
objectives and further developing state and micro-regional institutional
capabilities through decentralization. Once PIDER became incorporated
into PDR, the Government had difficulties in maintaining the original
priorities through the revised programming structure. The start-up
problems which ensued (e.g. slow disbursements, inadequate staff, poor
communication of new procedures to executing agencies) led to further
preoccupation with improving the programming mechanism rather than the
operations results and their sustainability of sub-projects. To the
Borrower's credit, when evidence surfaced on the scale of unproductive
projects, some originating under previous PIDERs, Government was quick
to limit PDR financing to rehabilitation. Unfortunately, a change in
PDR management shortly thereafter did not maintain this orientation and
soon even the productive focus, originated by PIDER in 1973, gave way to
more financing of infrastructure and social subprojects.
1.9.2     During project PCR preparation, renewed Government concern
with poverty alleviation surfaced and the following lessons of PIDER III
emerged for the future similar efforts to: a) devise measures which
allow programs to transcend institutional discontinuities; b) build in
periodic in-depth evaluations as a pre-condition to making fundamental
changes in project design; c) return to programming, at every
administrative level, with a more long-term perspective which integrates
prospective actions in related program areas; and d) re-introduce
beneficiary participation as an integral component in sub-project
identification, cost-sharing, monitoring and evaluation. The Borrower's
own assessment of lessons learned includes points b) and c) and in
addition emphasizes the need for projects to be designed with greater
flexibility to respond to social demands with the development process
and for changes to the ways projects are appraised and selected at
different stages. Most of these lessons have in fact been incorporated
in the follow- on project.
10. Project RelationshiR
1.10.1    Bank relationship with Government on che project has been
generally good.



- 10 -
11. Consulting Ssrvices
1.11.1    Consultant services were utilized primarily to finance a
federal SPP project coordinator for about eight months (1985-86).
During this arrangement, disbursements surged and a number of innovative
activities were carried out such as: SPP and executing agencies
coordination seminars, renewed staff training and training of
beneficiaries, plans to send technical staff on specialized study tours
to other countries, and development of first macro-level impact data on
key indicators (See Table 4, Part III). While the SAR envisioned the
use of consultant services for somewhat different purposes, the decision
to employ them as indicated proved to be one of the more important
factors in helping to turn the project around at its most vulnerable
implementation stage.
12. Project Documentation and Data
1.12.1    The appraisal report, working papers, loan agreement documents
were adequate and useful through the first two years of the life of the
project. The M&E system, designed and approved by the Bank as a
condition of effectiveness, was elaborate and technically comprehensive
and included data collection forms and procedures for every project
component and project related agencies and beneficiaries. It was
consistent with the project participatory emphasis. However, it focused
largely on monitoring rather than evaluation. The lack of 17 fully
prepared MR plans at project effectiveness hindered preparation of
overall project targets, which in the SAR were only partially developed.
Government staffed micro-region development units but often with newly
graduated personnel. Training was provided to 580 officials, though it
is not clear with what subject matter intensity, practical application
and subsequent work assignment.
1.12.2    When PIDER was incorporated into PDR, the M&E planned
activities were incomplete and did not constitute an appropriate base
for the restructured project. The system which evolved within SPP,
without technical Bank review, has wide variation in capacity among
project states. Considerable progress has been made in computerizing
monitoring and with qualified staff, the possibilities of providing
rapidly a wide range of useful information has definitely increased.
However, this system does not adequately integrate data, over time,
generated by the financing institution and executing agencies and
beneficiary participation within the system is less than envisioned at
effectiveness. While the Bank and Government gave high priority to
improving the system, in practice it has yet to become an integral part
of planning and management. Poor or non-existent analytical capability
at state and federal levels and lack of an effective feed-back to
planning has maintained the traditional view that M&E is a controlling
or blame-finding instrument rather than a proven useful management tool.



- 11 -
1.12.3    Government will need to achieve better balance between
monitoring and evaluation. The progress in computerization made so far
will provide a good base for giving greater priority to analysis and for
results to be channeled into corrective or expansion actions.



- 13 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Introduction
2.1.1     With regard to the assessment of the project from the Bank's
perspective given in the PCR on PIDER III, the Government has the
following observations to make.
2.1.1.1   On a general level, that assessment coincides fairly
closely with the Borrower's own, particularly in
pinpointing technical shortcomings that came to light
during the execution period. However, detailed
consideration reveals some points of discrepancy between
the Bank and the Government. In order to make the
evaluation exercise more worthwhile, it would be useful
if these matters were clarified so that the conclusions
reached in the PCR may be more nearly unanimous. In
order of importance, the points of discrepancy are:
(a) Insufficient weight given to the economic and financial
crisis Mexico had to contend with from 1982 onward as the
major threat to the success of the Program.
2.1.1.2   Failure to consider this economic issue, and to foresee
its effects on the practical feasibility and
profitability of the actions incorporated in the project,
proved to be an unfortunate mistake, on the part of both
the executing agency and the Bank.
(b) The Bank's review of the project contains criticisms of
certain institutional shortcomings, namely: very little
monitoring (reflected in the Program's cost-benefit
yield); and reallocation of loan proceeds after PIDER III
was brought under the budget programming procedures used
for the Regional Development Programs.
2.1.1.3   Since the project was being implemented during the most
difficult period of the crisis, the execution process was
affected by the adoption of adjustment policies and by
PRD's reorganization of the economic system.
2.1.1.4   Introduction of an adjustment policy to reduce the public
deficit resulted in Federal civil service staff cuts and
in the reallocatinn of investment funds toward works in
progress and priority programs. Such changes contributed
to some degree to the appearance of technical and
operating deficiencies, not to mention so-called
apprenticeship costs.



- 14 -
2.1.1.5   Nevertheless, despite the crisis, the executing agency
made notable efforts to abile by the original project
goals.
(c) As a final observ.,.tion on Part I of this PCR, the
Government wishes to say that certain references of a
conceptual nature to the budgetary principle of Convenio
Unico de Desarrollo are mistaken and, in its view, need
to be revised. .1/
2. Performance
2.2.1     The Bank-Borrower relationship during the course of project
implementation was considered by the Mexican authorities to be generally
good, although some weaknesses became apparent:
(a)  The specific problem in this relationship grew out of the fact
that no monitoring and evaluation system was set up that
produced direct exchanges between the Bank and the central
agency responsible for the programming and budgeting aspects
of this loan. Instead, the relationship was based on two main
elements: (i) Bank supervision missions, and (ii) Bank
connections with NAFINSA (the financial agency of the
Government for purposes of this loan).
2.2.2     With regard to the supervision missions, they were carried out
in conjunction with staff from the regional offices of SPP and from
NAFINSA; on a few occasions, a representative of SPP headquarters was
also present. The Bank therefore had to work with personnel who were
not well acquainted with the workings of the loan. This situation arose
out of the decentralization process, which by delegating
responsibilities, broke up the structure through which PIDER programming
was being handled, without any new structure having been fully set up
beforehand. It is this which hindered the detection of problems
presenting themselves in the course of project works and the taking of
corrective measures. In these circumstances, the lack of direct link
between the Bank and SPP headquarters prevented prompt steps being taken
at another level to deal with such difficulties.
3.  Comments on PCR. Part III
2.3.1     Finally, to the extent it was actually able to do so on the
basis of existing data, the executing agency confirmed or corrected the
factual information contained in Part III of the PCR. However, as noted
in the Executive Summary sent to the Bank, it is impossible after the
event, using ad hoc mochanisms, to quantify the wide range of difficult-
to-measure variables that affected the project.
L1./ Changes have duly been made in Part I of PCR.



- 15 -
2.3.2     In this regard, Tables 4, 5 and 6 annexed to the Executive
Summary make use of definitive PIDER III data to illustrate project
achievements and financial results.
2.3.3     Where Tables 1, 2 and 3 are concerned, the Government has no
observations to offer, and, as regards Table 8, althougl. it has no means
of confirming the data compiled by Bank staff and mission members, it
has no observations to make either.
4. Lessons Learned
2.4.1     To conclude, as far as future projects are concerned, the
mechanisms now used for monitoring, control and evaluation need to be
corrected, in the sense that they should be focused more on the
rectification--or, where appropriate, ratification--of actions
undertaken. The ways different types of ptoject are appraised and
evaluated initially, during execution, and after completion also need to
be adjusted. In both instances, such changes should be those indicated
by an analysis that takes account not only of limiting factors but also
of potentially replicable successes. Furthermore, future projects
should be designed so as to allow greater flexibility of response to the
social demands of a country in the process of development.



- 17 -
PART III                             PART III
Table 1
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER III
(Loan 2043-ME)
Table 1. RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan Title                      Purpose                  ApprovallClosing
Loan 1053-ME             Link productive support with       Approval
Papaloapan Rural         social infrastructure to           October 1974
Development Project      expand food production,
improve incomes and quality       Closing
of life.                          December 1982
Loan 1110-ME             Assist the implementation of       Approval
Integrated Rural         rural investment plans in 30       May 1975
Development Project      micro-regions (MRs) with
PIDER I                  primary emphasis on                Closing
productive investments to          September 1980
increase incomes, employment
and production and improve
social services.
Loan 1111-ME             Rehabilitate the drainage and    Approval
Bajo Rio Bravo           irrigations systems on about       May 1975
Irrigation               280,000 ha in 2 districts to
Rehabilitation           increase yields and diversify    Closing
Project                  crops.                             September 1983
Loan 1462-ME             Reinforce PIDER efforts to         Approval
Integrated Rural         raise incomes, production and    June 1977
Development Project      employment and improve social
PIDER II                 services for the rural poor        Closed
in 20 MRs.                        January 1983
Loan 1553-ME             Intensify and increase             Approved
Tropical                 agricultural production in         April 1978
Agricultural             Mexico's tropical lowlands,
Development              including Yucatan peninsula        Closed
PRODERITH                (a PIDER III state).               June 1984



- 18 -
PART III
Table 1
Page 2 of 2
Loan
Title                       Purpose                   Approval/Closing
Loan 1945-ME             Improve institutions for           Approval
Rainfed Agricultural    agricultural research,              January 1981
Development Project      extension and training;
(PLANAT)                 increase farm productivity in    Closing
9 rainfed districts (of which    June 1987
2 in Guerrero and 2 in
Zacatecas, PIDER III states).
Comments: Loan 1053-ME was the first Bank financed integrated rural
development project in Mexico. It demonstrated the need for a strong
coordination mechanism. Loans 1110-ME and 1462-ME expanded PIDER from a
basic rural infrastructure program to one with a directly productive
emphasis. Loans 1111-ME and 1945-ME focused on strengthening national
research, extension and training to provide improved support services for
agricultural produc._ion. These projects were generally over ambitious, too
geographically dispersed and experienced coordination difficulties between
numerous line agencies responsible for proiect execution.  In marked
contrast, Loan 1553-ME was a pilot effort, cacefully designed and evaluated
as a success in part due to sound continuous management, strong GOM support
and the Bank's creative role at appraisal and responsiveness and continuity
during supervision. Froa. these related projects, elements regarding
coordination, increased beneficiary participation and emphasis on M&E were
incorporated in PIDER III.
In addition to these Lank financed projects, the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) approved in May 1980 a loan of
LS$22 million to support PIDER in two MRs in the state of Oaxaca and the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) was supporting PIDER since 1976 for
US$40 million in an additional 15 MRs. By July 1980, PIDER had received a
total of US$292 million in external financing.
Sources: OED Audit and PCR Reports; President's Report for Loan 2043-ME.
I1



- 19 -
PART III
Table 2
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER III
(Loan 2043-ME)
TABLE 2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date              Date              Date
Item                      Planned           Revised           Actual
- Identification
(Executive Project
summary)                     10-18-78          11-23-78           11-23-78
- Preparation I                 11-30-78           12-15-78          12-15-78
- Preparation II                     -             01-28-79          01-28-79
- Preparation III                    -             04-23-79          04-23-79
- Pre-appraisal                 04-05-79         11/79;1/80          02-17-80
- Appraisal Mission               6/79          10/79; 3/80;         05-26-80
3/80
- Loan Negotiations              6-7/80       3/80; 9/80; 5/81       06-01-81
- Board Approval                  6/80          6/80; 9/80;          07-21-81
10/80; 7/81
- Loan Signature                  8/80                 -             11-06-81
- Loan Effectiveness              6/81                 -             05-05-82
- Loan Closing                   9-30-85    12/87; 6/88; 12/88    12-31-88
- Project Completion            12-31-84      6-30-88; 12-31-88    12-31-88
Source:  LA2AG Black Book - Project Timetables and Project Files
Commentci 1) Identifi'ation through Loan Signing: PIDER experienced
institutional reorganizations, staff and policy changes and procedural
modifications which delayed project preparation and processing for over one
year. These consisted of: PIDER administration being divided into four
branches (budget, programming, evaluation and operations) 9/78; PIDER being
split into two departments (programming and budgeting, operations and
evaluation) 3/79 which had their broad functions defined only i-. 11/79 when



- 20 -
PART III
Table 2
Page 2 of 2
the administrator of the three branches became responsible for PIDER III
preparations; a new SPP manager took over 5/79; the PIDER name was changed
to emphasize a new focus on integrated rural development 12/79: and a PIDER
Policy Paper outlined new policy changes 5/80. In addition, in 1978-79 a
mid-term evaluation of PIDER I fostered a great deal of debate over how to
ensure greater beneficiary participation in the programming of PIDER
investments. This resulted in the preparation of new programming
guidelines and training stafi at state and MR levels in its use for
preparing MR plans for project appraisal. 2) Im2lementation: Four months
after loan signing, Mexico had the first of two severe devaluations which
marked the beginning of the economic crisis and caused s:.ortages in
counterpart funds and staff. The changing political administration in 1982
combined with the consolidation of PIDER into the broader PDR program in
1984 also contributed to a changed view of rural development and delays in
all aspects of project implementations.



PART III
Table 2
Page 2 of 2
PRECT SE
Loan 2043-HE
Quarter    ]                  11213142 11213|4 1IfH 112fl4                               1121314 12h3
Year       1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Identification                       >
Preparation: Mission 1               >
Preparation: MissLon 2
Preparatlon: Mission 3
Pre-Appraisal MLssLon                   >>>>>>>>>
Appraisal MissLon                         >>>T>>
Loan NegotiatLons                                  >>>>>>>>
Board Approve- >>>>>>>>>
I                                                                                                N3
Signature Date                                       >> >>>>>>>>
Date of Effectlveness                                       >>>>>>>>>
Conpletlon Date                                                          _>>>>>>> >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
Closing Date                                                                                     > J>>_ :_  _->>>>>>> >>>>>
Year      1978    1979    .;               i l982    196&    1984    1985    1986  J1987    1988
Quarter  ,       '13kil' i;1l23     1 314|1|2131                                112131411213
Scheduled:                                  SUopage:   >>>>



- 22 -
PART III
Table 3
MEXICO
Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER III
(Loan 2043-ME)
Table 3. CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
DISBURSEMENTS (in US$ Million)
BANK FY                    ESTIMATED         ACTUAL          ACTUAL Z
AND QUARTER                 CUMULATIVE       CUMULATIVE      OF ESTIMATED
1981/82  2                         22.0                -                 -
4                         50.0               3.0                6
1982/83  2                         77.0                8.62             11
4                       113.0               10.20               9
1983/84  2                        149.0               18.51             12
4                       169.0               41.67             25
1984/85  2                        175.0               53.12             30
4                          -               107.33             61
1985/86  2                          -                124.89             71
4                          -               129.11             74
1986/87  2                          -                139.47             80
4                          -               146.64             84
1987/88  2                          -                159.02             91
4                          -               159.02             91
1.988/89  2                         -                162.91             93
4                          -               170.86             98
1989/90  1                          -                175.00            100
Date of Final Disbursement:  August 1, 1989
Source: Bank Statements of Loans
Comments: Slow disbursements were due to inicial delays in
preparing the remaining 9 micro-regional plans for Bank approval as a
condition of disbursement, deteriorating economic conditions of 1982-84
(devaluations, inflation, cost increases) and poor coordination and
knowledge by executing agencies to submit rapidly reimbursement claims.
(Source: Supervision Reports).



INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED VS. ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
180
1 60                                    ^""
120,
D100               a
=080-         ,L"i
82         83          84          85         86          67          88         89
World Bank Fiscal Years
|--W- Estmated ca 
.4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 24 -
PART II
Table
MEXICO
Integrated Rural DeveloRment Project - PIDER III
(Loan 2O43-ME)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
INDICATORS                       UNITS            APPRAISAL        CUHNULATIVE              X OF              ACTUAL
ESTIMATE        ACHIEVEMENT 1/    PROJECT TARGET         ESTIMATE ./
Productive
Irrigation Development                ha                 17,000            18,570                  109                 32,338
Soil and Water Conservation           ha                 48,000            146425                   30                  6,414
Maize                                 ha                 76,000            51,706                   68                       -
Fruit Crops                           ha                 14,000            23,478                  167                 32,097
Coffee Rehabilitation                 ha                 14,260             9,521                   66                 13,832
Coconut Rehabilltation                ha                 13,000              na.                     -                      -
Beef and Dairy                       units               11,000               450                    4                    278
Small Animals                   beneficiaries             5,200            13,025                  250                  4,021
Beekeeping                           units                  400             2,526                  631                    768
Forestry                        beneficiaries            n.a.              32,865                  354                 36,080
Fisheries                       beneficiaries               800             2,835                    -                  3,697
Rural Industries                beneficiaries              na.             23,899                    -                281,025
Development Credit                   loans                 n.a.                 -                                            -
Development of Rainfed Areas          ha                   n.a.              na.                  n.a.                 82,534
Productive Suoyort
Extension                            staff                 n.a.             1,230           30,748                   138,255
Research                           programs                 n.a                37                    -            30 projects
Rural Roads                            I T                1,030             1,616                  156               3,845 km
Rural Electrification            ccomunities                280               305                  109                    537
Programs for Women                    no.                  na.               na.                     -                       -
Roads                                 km                   n.a.              n.a.                 n.a.                  9,411
Rural Marketing                 beneficiaries              na.               na.                  n.a.              6,248,280
Social Infrastructure
Education                         classrooms              2,200             2,045                   93                  3,988
Rural Water Supply                  systems                  150              128                   85                    492
Health Facilities                   centers                 140                12                    9                     65
Nutrition Component             beneficiaries              n.a.              n.e.                    -                437,191
Self Help                          persons                 n.e.            20,638                                      38,404
Urban Development               beneficiaires              n.a.              n.a.                 n.a.              1,770,832
Prolect Management
Monitoring and Evaluation           Reports                na.               n.a.                 n.a.                    591
I/ As reported in Bank Supervision 10-3-84
I/ As estimated by the Government of Mexico.
3/ See table 6.



- 25 -
PART IIl
Table 5
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PIDER Ill
(Loan 2043-ME)
A. PROJECT COSTS
(In million of USS)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE            Ii       ACTUAL  d/
Local    Foreign    Total         Total Costs        Total Costs
Costs     Costs      Costs       (1980 Prices)     (Curr. Prices)
PRODUCTIVE
pDricuhtural Development
rrigation                                        27.1        ao       361                 14.3               17.7
oil and Water Conservation                       59         1.1        ao                 (6                 08
and Improvement                                  7.3        c8s        a-1--
rultCropDevelopment                             124         1.4       1as                 51                 65
offee Development                                I3         22        105                 2.9                a5
'oconut Development                               1.8        05        23
Development of Ralnfed Areas *-                              -          -                  22                 29
eekeeping *-                                                -          -                  0.2                0.2
ub-Total Agricultural Develop. aJ               6as        1SO        788                2S3                31,7
vestock Development
eef and Dairy                                   31.1       10.4       41t5               101                128
asture Improvement                               56         1.9        7.5
mall-stock                                      898         a3       1a1                  04                 a4
ub-Total Uvestock Develop. a/                   465        156       621                 105                132
Isherles                                         a1         a9         s.0                4.4                55
orestry Development                              21         02         23                 28                 a5
ural Industries                                  62         33        95                  4.8                60
Development CredIt                               289         7.2      351
Sub-Total Producttve a/                         1 556       422      197.8                47.7               59.9
SUPPORT
xtenslon b/                                     21.4        53        267                 67                 R6
ural Roads                                      11.3        a8       151                 292                37.7
ural Electrification                            11.3        as       151                 2a9                27.1
ural Marketing                                   4.3        00         4.3                7.1                83
armer Organization and Training                  80         04         84                 1.3                1.5
easibilfty Studles                                o         as         55                  _ 6
aseline Studes                                   as         C4        4.2
roductive Programs for Women                     25         ao         25                 _                   .
oads *                                            -         -          -                 24.3               31.8
ub-Total Support a/                          67.6          14.2      8.8                 8                 1161
(Cont.)



- 26 -
PART III
Table 5
Page 2 of 3
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PIDER Ill
(Loan 2043-ME)
A. PROJECT COSTS (Cont.)
(In million of US$)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                      ACTUAL dJ
Local    Foreign    Total          Total Costs        Total Costs
Costs      Costs      Costs      (1980 Prices)       (Curr. Prices)
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
ducaton                                           a4          1.4        9.8               2Q0                 257
ural Water Supply                                 7.4         1.8        Q2                254                 32.3
eaith Center                                      fi4        a7          7.1                57                  7.5
utrition  **                                      4.5        a5          50                   _.
elf-help Materials                                 19         0.i        1.0                21                  27
ocial Assistance *                                 -                                        4.3                 57
rban Development *-                                           -          -                  4.6                 a1
ub-TntRl Infrastructure a/                       27.6         4.5       321                621                 80.0
'ROJECT MANAGEMENT
onitoring and Evaluation                          1.3        as         22                  4.1                 53
rganization and Management **                     62         1.5        7.7                  ---                ---
raining and Tech. Assistance  **                  25          0.6        al                  --
ub-Total Project Management a/                   iao         ao         1ao                 4.1 |               53
Base Costs a/                                    26a8        6ea       324.7               2034               261.3
ontingencies
hysical c/                                        1B5         4.3        228                                      ---
3rice                                            1281        3a1        1582                   _                  _
Lrotal Prolect Costs al                          407.4        9B3       5057               20a4 |26.3
These subprojects were not Included at the time of prject appraisal.
** These subprojects were not implemented.
a/ Sums may not add due to rounding.
b/ Extension Includes technical assistance and applied research.
cl Physical contingency (10%) calculated for construction and cMI works onty.
d/ Breakdown of local and foreign costs is not available.



- 27 -
PART III
Table '
Page 3 of 3
B. PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ Million)
Planned A/          Revised k/
Source                     (11-06-81)    (07-11-85) (03-04-88)        Final c/
IBRD
1.   Civil Works                        97.2          97.2           68.2        74.3
2.   Med-Term Credit                    97.5          14.5           17.5        14.5
Short-Term Credit                                21.9           27.9        21.8
3.  Vehicles & Equipment
for Extension &                    27.2          27.2           47.2        50.2
Research
4.   Vehicles & Equipment
a. for project                     14.2          13.2           13.2        13.2
organization &
management, M&E staff
development, and
feasibility & socio-
economic studies
b. staff training                   -.-           1.0             1.0        1.0
5.   Unallocated                        13.9
TOTAL IBRD                             175.0         175.0          175.0       175.0
DOMESTIC
Government                            268.0                                     86.3 d,
Beneficiaries                          63.0
TOTAL FINANCING                        506.0                                    261.3
Source:  Loan Agreements and Amendments.
p/ 42% of Expenditure to be financed by IBRD.
1/ 70% of Expenditure to be financed by IBRD for categories 1-4a
and 100% for category 4b; dates reflect major revisions.
./ Final disbursements were 08-01-89.
L  !86.3 million represents the total of GOM and beneficiaries
contribution to the project.



- 28 -
PART III
Table 6
Page 1 of 1
MEXICO
Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER III
(Loan 2043-ME)
STUDIES
Subject                                 Content/Results
Dynamic of the Milpa                       Establish demonstration plots in
12 ha. to compare traditional
practices with more modern ones.
Rural Roads Studies                        Practical application in
and Projects                               the construction of roads in
Guerrero and Yucatan,
contributing to the inter-
communication and physical
linkage of producer regions.
Potable Water and                          Examine water quality
Sewerage                                   and treatment and the
construction of systems to
improve response to social
demand for this service.
Evaluation Survey                          Provide data for the PCR
of the PIDER III                           on beneficiaries' percep-
Project (by INEGI)                         tion of PIDER benefits.
Results are presented in World
Bank Report No. 7786-ME.
Development Strategies                     Preliminary research for
the negotiation of a new
credit.
Source:  Evaluaci6n del PIDER III, Secretaria de Programaci6n y
Presupuesto, Mexico, D.F., May 30, 1990.



- 29 -
PART III
Table 7
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER III
(Loan 2043-ME)
STATUS OF LOAN COVENANTS
Covenant                    Subject                     Status of Compliance
LOAN AGREEMENT
Section 4.02        Annual Audit of the Special           Complied with
(as anmmended)     Account
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
Section 3.04        Satisfactory appraisal of the         Generally adhered to
investment plans of each              through state COPLADES
participating State
Section 3.05        Improve cost recovery for             Improvements have been
Parts A, B, and D of the Project    made
Section 3.06        In carrying out Part A of the         Generally adhered to
Project, the Guarantor to ensure    although there were
that beneficiaries obtain credit    instances where no
from a participating Bank or a        credit or insufficient
BANRURAL bank, before starting        credit was made
construction of individual works    available
Section 3.11        Project monitoring and evaluation   Generally adhered to
Section 3.12        Procurement of goods and civil        Complied with
works
Section 3.15        Maintain records on the progress    Complied with
of the project, allow Bank
missions to visit the facilities,
and furnish the information as
requested
Section 4.03        Maintenance of separate records       Delayed, but all
and accounts, and annual verifica- reports received
tion of project accounts



- 30 -
PART III
Table 7
Page 2 of 2
Covenant                    Subject                    Status of Compliance
PROJECT AGREEMENTS - BANRURAL
Section 2.09       Annual audit of FICART's              Delayed, but all
financial statements                 reports received
Schedule 1,        Annual adjustment of interest         Complied with after
para. C.8           rates charged on medium-term         protracted negotiations
subloans. After August 1984
they were to be adjusted
periodically according to GIRA1
PROJECT AGREEMENTS - BANXICO
Section 2.09       Annual audit of FONDO's (FIRA)        Delayed, but all
financial statements                 reports received
Schedule 1,        Annual adjustment of interest         Complied with after
para. C.8          rates charged on medium-term          protracted negotiations
subloans. After August 1984
they were to be adjusted
periodically according to GIRA'
' General Interest Rates Agreement signed between the Bank and the
Government of Mexico on August 7, 1984.



- 31 -
PART III
Table 8
Integrated Rural De:T       t Prol ct - PIDER III                               g
(Loan 2043-ME)
Table S. USE OF STAFF RESOURCES
A. STAFF INPUTS
Bank FY - Staff Wooku
STAGE Of'       l       l         l        l        l       ll                       
PROJECT CYCLE    1978   1979        1980     1981    1982    1983     1984  1986 1ss           1987   1988  1989       TOTAL
Idont./Prsp.       9.11      5.656                                                                                      84.78
Appraisai                            181.67                                                                            181.87
Negotiations                                  90-82                                                                     90.82
Board Approval-
Effoctiveneas                               58.46    4.04                                                             80.60
Supervision                                            23.23   28.62   20.46  19.92  19.91   13.42  14.59   3.97  144.12
PCR                                                                                                      2.80   0.43    3.03
TOTAL              9.11    66.86   181.87  147.28   27.27   28.82   20.46  19.92  19.91   13.42  17.19   4.40  644.9C
Source:  MIS, August 1989
B. MISSIONS
STAGE OF                       MONTH/      NO. OF      STAFF      SPECIALIZACTION      PERFORMANCE                    TYPES C
PROJECT CYCLE                  YEAR        PERSONS    WEEKS       REQUESTED  1/        ASSESSMENT 2/   STATUS 3/   PROBLE4
Through Appraisal
Identification                 11/78*        4          12.0       2a, ;, j
Preparation I                  12/78.        2          2.0        b, c
Preparation II                 01/79*        9          18.0       2b, c, h, 3i, 2;
Preparation III                04/79*        S          10.0       2b, c, is, j
Preparation-Follow-Up I        09/79         2          8.0        b, p
Preparation-Follow-Up II       12/79         7          14.0       2a, b, h, 2i, j
Preparation-Follow Up III    01/80           1          1.0        b
Pro-Appraisal                  05/80         2          3.3        b, m
Appraisal through Board Approval
Appraisal                      05/80         e          24.0       2., d, h, i, m
Post-Appraisal                 08/80         6          10.0       a, d, h, i, k             -                 -
Post Appraisal                 02/81         3          8.0        a, d, h                   -                 -
Board Approval through Effoctiveness
Roview                         09/81.        4          8.0        d, h, k, n                -                 -
Roview                         02/82*        8          19.0       2a, Os h, o, p            -                 -



PART III
- 32-                                         Table 8
Page 2 of 2
STACE OF                        MONTH/      NO. OF      STAFF      SPECIALIZACTION       PERFORMANCE                   TYPES 0
PROJECT CYCLE                   YEAR        PERSONS    WEEKS       REQUESTED   1         ASSESSMENT 2/   STATUS 3/   PROBLEM
4/
Suorvision
Supervision 1                  09/02*         a          9          2x, d                     1                  I          f
Supervision 2                  09/62.         1          2          o                         1                  1          f
Supervision J                  04/83          2          6          a  d                      2                  2          f
Supervision 4                  0/33          2          6          a  d                      2                  2          to
Supervision 6                  01/64          1          2          a                         2                  2          fmt
Supervision 6                  09/84          2          a          a,c                       2                  1          fmt
Supervision 7                  02/65          1          2          a                         6/                 2          6/
Supervision S                  06/65          1          2                                    -                  2          -
Supervlsion 9                  06/66          2          3           , f                      -                  2          -
Supervision 10                 09/36          1          2                                    -                  2          -
Supervision 11                 02/37          2          4          2a                        -                  2          -
Supervision 12                  10/67         2          a          2a                        -                  2          -
Supervision 13                 06/83          2          4          2c                        -                  2          -
PCR Survey                     09/6t          2          4          o, k                      -                  2          -
Source: Project files
Comments:  The high use of staff resources between Identification through Effectiveness was attributod to two
factoro. 1) fundamental changes In PIDER administration which led to much study and debote between COM and the Bank,
resulting In long delays; and 2) the Bank at that time was expanding Integrated rural devolopment, focusing on
innovative progroma and lose concerned with efficiency and budgetary limitations. Stiff us* decreased to normal
lovela for supervision.
1/:  o * agriculturalist; b a agricultural economist; c a financial analyst/rural credit;
d e economist; * = loan officer; f = Irrigation expert;
g a agroindustry specialist; h = rural devolopment specialist;
I a health/ nutrition; j = rural industries; k . m + e; 1 a rural roads; m = y/p; n = livestock; o . forestry;
p = participation
2/:  1 a no problems or minor problems; 2 moderate problems; 3 = major problems
T/:  1 a Improving; 2 * stationary; 3 = doteriorating
/:  f * finanical; m = administrative; t = technical; p . political; o = other
1/:  Form 690 changed and this category was deleted
a Combined with Supervision of othor PIDER projects.



- 33 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 27
SURVEY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
1.        At the Bank's request, the Government of Mexico, through INEGI,
carried out a survey about the rural development projects partially financed
under PIDER III, Loan 2043-ME.
SUMMARY OF OBJECTIVESU 
2.        Overall, the survey was designed to identify successful and
unsuccessful projects, causes of failure and major constraints, degree of goal
achievement, beneficiary and community participation, financial and technical
assistance received, and the like. Further description of the survey
objectives for each type of project follows.
A. Productive Proiects
3.        Small-Scale Irrigation:  Measure project impact on the introduction
of new crops or increase in cultivated areas, new technologies, and
introduction of different irrigation schemes.
4.        Fruit Trees and Livestock:  Gather information on the impact of
fruit tree and livestock development as a means of creating new permanent or
temporary employment opportunities, increasing productivity, improving product
prices, quality and technology.
5.        Agroindustries:  Determine project contribution to the creation of
permanent employment opportunities, and to increases in productivity ard
income through rural industries.
6.        In addition, a question on marketing was included in the
questionnaires of productive projects to identify who was involved in
marketing activities in the local, regional, and other domestic markets.
B. SuRport Proiects
7.        Rural Stores:  Assess the benef'.s of setting up stores in rural
communities; measure population and service roverage, problems with supplies,
and demand and supply of basic staples, and consumption patterns of the
community.
Based on objectives described in INEGI's "Diseno Final de la Encuesta
Evaluatoria de Proyectos, PIDER III," Septiembre de 1988.



- 34 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 27
8.        Warehouses:  Evaluate the implementation of warehouses, in terms of
costs and benefits to the rural communities, to support the distribution of
basic staples or marketing of agricultural products.
9.        Rural Roads:  Assess the effectiveness of road construction to
facilitate inter- and intraregional communication from the community to
distribution centers; provide information on the availability of roads to
production centers either for better product marketing or for the introduction
of the necessary inputs to increase productivity.
10.       Electricity:  Obtain information on rural electricity projects,
evaluate planning, programming and service coverage, and measure community
benefits from this service to act as a supporting tool to integrated rural
development.
C. Infrastructure Proiects
11.       Water Supply and Sewerage:  Obtain information on the planning of
the water supply and sewerage systems, operations, expected service coverage,
and goal achievement; provide information on the benefits derived from the
installed infrastructure, as well as use and cost of the services.
12.       Schools:  Obtain information to evaluate basis for planning,
organization and goal achievement for the school-age beneficiary population;
assess operations of the school as an education center and the active
participation of beneficiaries.
13.       Health Centers:  Evaluate project implementation on the basis of
planning, organization, service ' verage and operations; measure degree of
beneficiaiy participation for the creation of the centers.
SAMPLE
14.       The survey was carried out from September 26 through October 14,
1988 and administered to a sample of beneficiaries of the PIDER III projects.
The sample was randomly selected assigning a probability proportion to 30
communities in each state according to the total number of projects carried
out in each community. Only those communities in which there was a livestock,
small-scale irrigation, fruit tree or agroindustry project were included in
the sample. Each state is represented by a minimum sample of two and a
maximum of six communities per type of project.



- 35 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 27
Table A4.
RURAL DEVELOPHENT SURVY
Number of Rasondeunto
TOTAL
TYPE OF PROJECT     GUERRERO    SINALOA    YUCATAN    ZACATECAS   PER PROJECT
PRODUCTIVE INVESTMENTS
- Scate Irrigation       3          6           4        3            16
- Fruit Tress            6          3           5        4            18
- Livestock              6          6           5        2            19
- Agroindustries         4          0           3        4            11
SUPPORT PROJECTS
- Stores                 6          6           3        5            20
- Warehouses             4          0           0        2            6
- Roads                  4          4           5        4            17
- Electricity            3          4           6        5            18
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
- Water Supply           6          5           5        4            20
- Sewerage               6          5           0        2            13
- Education              5          4           4        5            18
- Health                 4          5           4        4            17
TOTAL PER 3TATE          57         48         44        44           193
ANALYSIS OF RESPONSES
15.       To be able to compare and analyze the data to answer some specific
issues and draw conclusions, some questions were selected, interpreted and
sometimes recoded to provide overall positive and negatives answers. To the
extent possible, the data was also cleaned of coding errors and out-of-line
answers. An outline with the questions used for each table that follows is
attached at the end of this annex.
16.       Based on beneficiaries' perception,/ the rate of success of the
projects was 65%, almost evenly distributed among productive, support, and
infrastructure projects. According to these survey results, beneficiaries
rated productive projects better than the World Bank supervision reports.
Sinaloa presented the worst scores (56%), mainly due to the failure of
productive projects, followed by Zacatecas (60%) and Guerrero (69%). The best
was Yucatan (74%).
t/   Survey of PIDEi, projects was carried out by INEGI, with Bank assistance,
in 1988.



- 36 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 27
Productive Proiects
17.       The beneficiary survey shows results from a low 50% rate of success
in Sinaloa to a high of 79% in Yucatan, yet the highest crop yields were
obtained in Sinaloa. The economic results were low in general, due to a
number of problems. Of the 1,350 irrigated hectares visited, 34% were being
used for producing low-yield maize and beans. Investment per boneficiary
varied from about US$500 to less than US$50. The maximum number of hectares
per beneficiary was seven; sometimes it was as low as half a hectare per
beneficiary. SPP rarely gave any technical assistance (1.3 visits per
project).
18.       For other agricultural projects (fruit trees, livestock, and
agroindustries), those perceived as most successful were agroindustries in
Yucatan (87%) and the least successful were fruit trees in Sinaloa (6%). Fruit
tree projects took about one to two years to complete, except in Guerrero
where coffee rehabilitation projects took four to five years, and a peach
project took five years but was abandoned because it did not produce any
fruit. The most successful projects in fruit trees were citrus in Yucatan and
nopal in Zacatecas. Buildings were in good maintenance in only half of the
livestock projects. In agroindustries, 30% of the projects had problems of
raw materials and 64% had marketing problems. Technical assistance was also
very unsatisfactory.
Social Projects
19.       The rate of success of education and health projects was the worst
for health in Zacatecas (58%) and the best for health in Guerrero (83%). The
average number of persons attended to in the health projects was 32 per day.
About 20% of the health centers had no access by road, nor did they have
electricity or potable water. About 90% of the centers reported problems with
the supply if medicines, half had equipment maintenance problems, and 28% had
no equipment. In education projects, the average a number of students per
community increased from 198 to 324. About 83% of schools did not have enough
teaching materials, and 22% did not have adequate transportation for the
students.
20.       The rural stores were seen as satisfactory by the majority of the
communities. Prices in the private stores were about 25% higher than in the
community stores.!/   The problems mostly cited were lack of variety and
uneven quality of the products.
t/   DICONSA claims that their prices are about 14% lower than private stores.
But, in 1987, DICONSA had an operating loss equal to about 20% of their
sales.



- 37 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 27
Physical Infrastructure Projects
21.       Rural roads were considered satisfactory in 48% of the projects in
Zacatecas, with a high of 74% in Yucatan. In 35% of the cases, the
respondents considered that the roads were badly maintained. Only in 18% of
the cases were they being maintained either by the municipio or directly by
the beneficiaries. The other projects--water, sewerage, and electricity--
presented a degree of satisfaction, from 56% for sewerage in Zacatecas to a
high of 81% for electricity in Guerrero.



- 38 -
Annex 1
- Dac,e c o4 2-7
Table A4. 2
PROJECTS PERCEIVED AS SUCCESSFUL BY BENEFICIARIES
(X of Projects)
SS5==5=GS====#5s===SS=========S555SS5 S====
STATE                          AVERAGE BY
TYPE OF PROJECT              ------------------------------------------------   TYPE OF
GUERRERO    SINALOA       YUCATAN      ZACATECAS       PROJECT
-z_^  ===S=========s====S===XSG5s5-=-lS===s=SYSX--=5z-YS====
PRODUCTIVE INVESTMENTS
- Small-Scale Irrigation          65!           60X          79s          67!                 6%!
- Fruit Trees                     32x            ex         67%           27!                 46!
- Livestock                        e8x          36!          78s          465                  67X
- Agroindustries                  63!         ---            87x          75X                  76X
Avoroog Benefits
in Productive Investments         69!          31!          7sx           64!
SUPPORT PROJECTS
- Stores                          74!           899          74!          84!                8so
- Warehouses                      63!         ---           ---           63!                 658
- Roads                            56!         63!           74!          48!                 eox
- Electricity                     81!          62!          63!           76!                 76x
Average Benefits
in Support Projects               69!          71!          7ox          e6x
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
- Water Supply                    69x         6ex            71!          67!                 68!
- Sewerage                         59X          61x         ---           6!%                 658
- Education                       64!           76X          72!          65!                  69!
- Health                          S3x           64!          76!          6sx                  76!
Averago Benefits
in Infrastructure Projects        68!          66!          73!          62!
AVERAGE BY STATE                   69!          563          74X          66x
AVERACE X OF PROJECTS PERCEIVED AS SUCCESSFUL          *      665



Table A4.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST PER BENEFICIARY 1/
(In thousands of Mexican Pesos)
PROD. INVEST. PROJECTS   SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION             FRUIT TREES                 LIVESTOCK                AGROINDUSTRIES
Average                     Average                    Avorage                     Average
9 of    Total   Cost per   9 of    Total   Cost per   9 of    Total   Cost per  9 of    Total   Cost per
Bonef.   Cost     Bonef.   Ben-t.   Coat      Ben-f.   B-nef.   Cost      Ben-f.   Ben-f.   Cost      Ben-t.
Cuerrero                    197   72,874    369.92     990   42,944      43.38      141  100,367    711.82   6,618   22,808       3.60
Sinaloa                     372   68,887    162.92      44    3,288      74.73      196   18,694     92.32     ---      ---        ---
Yucatan                     164   75,377    469.62     ---       ---       ---      ---      ---        ---    271   46,419    167.66
Zacatecas                   73   42,222    678.38      146    7,306      60.03     170    2,663      16.66     6e3  169,960    317.99
AVERAGES FOR
TOTALS                     806  247,360    38.90   1,1806  63,637        46.37     607  121,124    238.90   7,292  228,177       31.29
SUPPORT PROJECTS                  ROADS                    STORES                    WAREHOUSES                    ELECTRICITY
Average                     Average                     Average                    Average
*of    Total   Cost per   9 of    Total   Cost per   9 of    Total   Cost per  9 of    Total   Coat per
Ben-f.   Cost     Bonef.   Ben-f.   Cost      B-n-f.   Bonef.   Cost      Ben.f.  Benef.   Cost       Bonef.
Cuerrero                13,820  386,343      27.96  22,320  111,149       4.98     137   89,464    653.02      810   60,800      62.72
Sinaloa                  8,867  168,466      17.66   6,600    2,869       0.43     ---       ---       ---   6,326   19,628       3.67
Yucatan                 29,369  231,336       7.88  11,643       940      6.09     ---       ---       ---  22,626   46,710       2.06
Zacatecas               64,632  126,315       2.34  13,100    8,970       0.68       9    2,600    277.78      976  146,631    160.27
AVERAGES FOR
THESE PROJECTS         168,678  906,469       8.49  63,063  123,928       2.34     146   91,964    629.89  29,736  263,669        8.86
INFRAST. PROJECTS            WATER SUPPLY                  SEWERAGE                    EDUCATION                   HEALTH
Average                    Avorage                     Average                     Average
* of    Total  Cost per   9 of    Total   Cost per   # of    Total   Cost per   # of    Total  Coat per
Ben.f.   Cost     Bonef.   Bonef.   Cost      Ben-f.   Bonef.   Cost      B nof.   Bonof.   Cost      Bonef.
Querrero               139,622  642,873       3.90  81,132  340,329       4.19  87,861  114,176       1.30 183,386  390,910       2.13      ::3
Sinaloa                 12,218  126,879      16.30  48,606  207,072       4.26   1,366    6,428       4.18 137,202   63,447       0.39    M m
Yucatan                  6,652   72,869      14.42     ---       ---       ---     ---       ---       ---  46,776   23,244       6.60       x
Zacatecas                4,388   86,832      19.79   1,600   38,674      24.11     700   24,682      36.69  12,107  178,110      14.71
_________________           -----------------           -----------------           -----------------              0
AVERAGES FOR
THESE PROJECTS         166,680  828,463       6.16 131,332  686,976       4.46  89,861  144,166       1.66 379,470  646,711       1.70    _
/-Proi    -t co-t-                  --y not b  *ully cozpara--- --    *r--------------1
I/ Proiect costs may not be fully comparable as data are in current pesos. Projects fall into the 1981-1988 period.



- 40 -
Annex I
Table A4.4                                Page 8 of 27
OVERALL INTENSITY OF BENEFICIARY PARTICIPATION 1/
STATE                   AVERAGE BY
TYPE OF PROJECT           ------------------------  -------------  TYPE OF
GUERRERO  SINALOA  YUCATAN  ZACATECAS   PROJECT
PRODUCTIVE INVESTMENTS
- Small-Scale Irrigation             832       792       942         922         872
- Fruit Trees                        892       892       44%        1002         81%
- Livestock                          672       42%       952         752         702
- Agroindustries                     942      ---        752         882         852
Average Participation
in Productive Investments            832       702       772         892
SUPPORT PROJECTS
- Stores  2/                        100%      100%       332         802         78%
- Warehouses  2/                     50%      ---       ---          50S         50%
- Roads                              432       14%       46%         292         33%
- Electricity                        582       502       292         502         472
Average Participation
in Support Projects                  51%       322       372         392
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
- Water Supply                       312       432       402         592         43%
- Sewerage                           402       442      ---          702         512
- Education                          95%       882       632        1002         86%
- Health                             30%       372       552         302         382
Average Participation
in Infrastructure Projects           492       532       532         652
AVERAGE BY STATE                     612       522       562         642
AVERAGE OVERALL INTENSITY OF BENEFICIARY PARTICIPATION            -              582
1/ For each project, several questions related to participation in identification,
execution, maintenance, finance, etc., were coded 0/1 for whether or not
there was participation. The percentages are the overall percentages of
participation across questions and projects in the class.
2/ Percentages reflect participation in identification only and are excluded
in the averages.



- 41 -
Annex 1
Pnee 4 of 27
Table A4.5
STRUCTURE OF COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION BY TYPE OF ACTIVITY 1/
Small -
Scale  Fruit   Live-   Agro-           Ware-                   Water
Activity     Irrig. Tress   stock   Indus.  Stores  houses  Roado  Elect.  Supply  Sewer. Educat.  Health
DISTRiUuTION OF BENEFICIARY CONTRIBUTION TO COST
--------------------------.---------------------
Land              40.9X   41.33   41.2!   47.13    n/a      n/a   42.3J    6.6!    6.13    6.8X   22.2X   16.83
Mach.& Equip.      4.5x    6.33     --       --     n/.     n/.    3.63     --       __      __      __      __
Financial          9.13    3.13   17.3X  11.31   n/a        n/a   11.53   75.6X   38.13   4S.6!   33.3X   16.83
Materiale          9.13    6.1X   14.1X   17.63    n/.      n/x   11.53    6.OX    6.1X    6.33   19.4%    5.3X
Labor             31.33   46.93   26.53   23.53    n/.      n/a   36.3X   26.11  42.43   37113  25.0X   31.SX
Other              4.5X    6.OX    o.6x    6.6!    n/e      n/n     --      6.   12.13    6.33    6.6X   31.6x
All Projects     16.6ex  1006.    1601U   1006.6    n/o     n/r  100.63  166.63  166.61  166.6   16611.6   166.6X
WHO PARTICIPATED IN PROJECT IDENTIFICATION
Beneficiaries     63.2X   63.431  6 38X      --      --      --     --       --      --      --      --      --
Cow_unity         26.31   21.1X   29.4X   41.73   54.2X   26.63  56.63   64.5X   36.5   4<.2X   46.73   36.6O
Ejido               --      --       --    53X.  20.6X   12.65    --    3.43   15.4X   11."   11.13X   o.X
Munlclpallty        --      --       --     6.6x    4.2!   25.61  25.63 X    .1    26.9X   11.6!   11.13  36.6x
Inst./Authority   106.     5.33   11.6x    6.63   20.3x    o.ex  20.63      --    15.43   23.53   37.63   46.63
Individual          .6X    6.OX     --       --      --      --     -       --       --      --      -- 
Other              6.6X    5.3X    6.6X    6.6X    6.63   37.53   5.6X    6.3    3.311  11.3!    6.1X   6.63
All Projects     16. 6X  106.63  166.6   1606.    166.6e   16.0  166.63  s16. x  166.    166.6  166.63  166.63
WHO PARTICIPATED IN lAINTENANCE
8-n-ficiaries     13. X    n/s    21.43   3.7X    n/a       n/a   16.73X   6.1  35.6OX   20.X   66.2X   26.63
Municipality       ---     n/c      ---     ---     n/.     n/n   16.7X    ---      ---     ---     6.73    --
Technicians       5U .     n/a    76.63   64.33    n/J      n/s   44.43    5.sx   66.O1   70.61    ---    68.3x
Executing Agency  1.6X    n/a      ---     ---     n/a     n/a    ---    94.1%    ---      ---    21.7X     --
Other              6.35     n/s    6.6X    .O6X    n/a      n/s   22.2X    6.6X    5.61   16.61    4.31   18.63
All Projects     1 66.6    n/a   1 6   166. 61le         n/a  n/a  166.6  166.11 166.6 11.SO       166.631 166.63
n/s a not available
1/  The percentage  repremnt the breakdown of participation by different groups or Institutions for each
type of activity.



_42-
Annex I
Page 10 of 27
Table A4.6
PROPORTION OF PROJECTS IN WHICH THERE WAS COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION 1/
(by Typo of Activity)
Small-
Scale  Fruit   Live-   Agro-             Ware-                    Wator
Activity     Irrig. Troos   stock   indus.  Stores  houses  Roads  Elect.  Supply  Sewer. Educat.  Health
DISTRIBUTION OF BENEFICIARY CONTRIBUTION TO COST
Land              56.3%   77.8%  73.73   72.7%    n/a         n/x   64.7        --    10.6      7.7X   44.4%   16.73
Mach.& Equip.       6.3x   11.1X      --       --     n/.      n/,    6.9X      --      --       --       __      __
Financial          12.653 6.6X 31.63   16.2X    n/a            n/a   17.6X   83.3X  57.9%   68.83   66.73   16.73
Matorials          12.6%3  6.6    26.3X   27.33    n/,         n/o   17.6X    6.6%   16.5x    7.7X   38.93    6.6%
Labor              43.8X  83.3X   47.4   36.'%    n/,          n/x   47.1X  27.8X  73.7X  46.23  60.0%   33.3X
Other               6.3%3   .63    6.3  60.6X    n/,           n/x     __      6.63   21.1w    7.7%    6.03   33.3X
WHO PARTICIPATED IN PROJECT IDENTIFICATION
Beneficiaries      75.0%  72.2X   52.63        --      --       --     --       --       --      --       --      __
Community          31.3X  22.23   26.3X  46.63   68.4    33.3X 68.8X   66.7%   52.63   58.83  61.1%   33.3
Ejido                --       --      --    63.6X  26.3    16.7    --         44.4    21.1    15.43   16.73    6.0%
Municipality         --       --      --     6.6      5.3X  33.3X 29.43   11.13   36.83  16.43   16.7X   33.33
Inct./Authority   12.6X   5.6X  10.6.    0.03   26.3   0.0   23.6X              --    21.13  0.8X  66.6X   44.4X
Individual          6.6%    6.6x      --      --       --       --     --       --      --       --      --       --
Other               6.63    6.6X    6.63    6.6X    6.3   560.063    .9X    0.O6       5.3X   16.43    6.ox    6.63
WHO PARTIC-PATED IN MAINTENANCE
.______________________________
Boneficiarloo      168.6    n/,    15.83  46.5X    n/a         n/a   17.63    6.06    36.%  16.4   83.33   22.2%
Municipality         --     n/a       --       --     n/a      n/    17.x       --      --       --    11.1X    ---
Technicians        66.33    n/,    67.9X   81.8X    n/,        n/x   47.1%  6.63   66.3  563.8X   ---  60.03
Executing Agency  18.83    n/a        --       --     n/,      n/o a          88.9X     __       -_ 27.83 ---
Other               6.X3    n/a      6.X    6.6OX    n/.       n/o   23.6X  0.6%  6.0%   7.73    5.63   16.7X
n/a * not available
1/  Porcentages represent the proportion of projeets for which a particular gra p participated over the total
number of projects in each survey.



- 43 -
Annex I
Pa I 11. of 27
Table A4.7
MARKETING INVOLVEMENT OF BENEFICIARIES AND OTHER AGENCIES
(Percentage of Projects)
MARKETING BY    MARKETING BY
MARKETING BY     OFFICIAL         PRIVATE
TYPE OF PROJECT         BENEFICIAIRIES    ENTITIES       ENTERPRISES
Small-Scale Irrigation    74.i%             9.42              16.4Z
Fruit Ti:es                62.6%           35.92               1.52
Livestock                  20.22            0.02              79.82
Agroindustry               53.52           19.4%              27.12
Table 7
DESTINATION OF OUTPUT BY PROJECT CLASS
LOCAL           REGIONAL           NATIONAL OR
TYPE OF PROJECT        MARKET            MARKET          EXTERNAL MARKET
Small-Scale Irrigation    40.02            47.52              12.52
Fruit Trees                27.52           55.0%              17.5%
Livestock                  45.22           51.6%               3.2%
Agroindustry               25.9%           48.1%              25.9%



- 44 -
Annex I
Table A4.8                       PaRe 12 of 27
FINANCIAL PARTICIPATION BY BENEFICIARIES TO TOTAL PROJECT COST
BY CLASS OF PROJECT 1/
STATE                AVERAGE BY
TYPE OF PROJECT          ---------------------------------------  TYPE OF
GUERRERO  SINALOA  YUCATAN  ZACATECAS   PROJECT
PRODUCTIVE INVESTMENTS
- Small-Scale Irrigation           5.0%     0.0%      5.3%       8.2%        4.6%
- Fruit Trees                     0.4%      2.3%    15.4%        9.3%        6.9%
- Livestock                        /.i%     4.4%      5.1%       2.1%        4.7%
- Agroindustries                  6.9%      ---       8.9%       4.0%        6.6%
Average Participation
in Productive Investments          4.9%     2.3%      8.6%       6.5%
SUPPORT PROJECTS
- Stores                           0.0%     0.0%      0.0%       0.0%        0.0%
- Warehouses                       0.0%     ---       ---        0.0%        0.0%
- Roads                            0.0%     0.0%      2.2%       0.0%        0.5%
- Electricity                      5.0%    17.1%    12.3%        8.0%       10.6%
Average Participation
in Support Projects                1.3%     5.7%      4.8%       2.0%
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
- Water Supply                    19.6%    15.6%      7.2%      15.0%       14.4%
- Sewerage                        6.1%    14.8%       ---        5.8Z        8.9%
- Education                        3.9%    10.1%      9.0%      10.0%        8.2%
- Health                           0.0%     0.8%      1.9%       0.0%        0.7%
Average Participation
in Infrastructure Projects         7.4%    10.3%     6.0%        7.7%
AVERAGE BY STATE                   4.5%     6.1%      6.5%       5.4%
AVERAGE 2 OF BENEFICIARY PARTICIPATION TC TOTAL COST           -             5.6%
1/ This is the average financial participation of beneficiaries in each
project class, i.e., total costs include costs of projects with and
without financial participation.



- 45 -
Annex 1
Page 13 of 27
Table A4.9
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
AREA AND FARMERS BENEFITTED WITH IRRIGATION
Column          (A)         (B)     (B)/(A)        (C)       (D)       (B)/(C)  (D)/(C)
Actual
No. of      No. of        Z        Number   Total       Actual   Invest./
STATE        Ha. to be   Irrig.    Attained    of          Invest.    Ha./       Benef.
Irrigated      Ha.                  Benef. (Mex$'OOO)  Benef.  (MexS'OOO)
GUERRERO            539       539        100.0%      197    48,177        2.74      244.6
SINALOA             643         0          0.02      372    54,853        0.00      147.5
YUCATAN             166       154         92.8Z      164    73,312        0.94      447.0
ZACATECAS           174         0          0.0%       73    41,699        0.00      571.2
TOTAL             1,522       693          ---       806   218,041         -
AVERAGE             381       173         45.5%      202    54,510        0.86      270.5



- 46 -
Annex 1
Page 14 of 27
Table A4.10
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
LAND LEVELLING
NUMBER OF ANSWERS                % of
-------------------           Positive
STATE              Positive Negative              Answers
GUERRERO                   0         3                 O.OZ
SINALOA                    2         3                40.0%
YUCATAN                    2         2                50.0%
ZACATECAS                  0         3                 0.0%
TOTAL                      4        11                26.7%



- 47 -
Annex 1
Page 15 of 27
Table A4.11
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
NUMBER OF PROJECTS PER CLASS OF CROP
STATE                               TOTAL
CROP          ---------------------------------------------------   PROJECTS           % OF
GUERRERO       SINALOA     YUCATAN       ZACATECAS      PER CROP      TOTAL
Maize                2              2           1              3                8          25'
Beans                2              1                          3                6          19'
Chile                                                          2                2           6'
Estropajo            2                                                          2           6'
Citrus                                          2                               2           6,
Orange               1                          1                               2           6,
Ocra                 1                                                          1           3'
Ajonjoli                            1                                           1           3'
Watermelon                                      1                               1           3'
Alelon               1                                                          1           3'
Avocado                                         1                               1           3,
Tuna                                1                                           1           3,
Cartamo                             1                                           1           32
Mango                1                                                          1           31
Sorghum              1                                                          1           32
Vegetables           1                                                          1           32
TOTAL PROJECTS      12              6           6              8               32         100,
PER STATE



- 48 -
Annex 1
Page 16 of 27
Table A4.12
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
AVERAGE YIELD PER PROJECT FOR SELECTED CROPS
STATE
CROP                         ----------------------__-------------------------------___
GUERRERO      SINALOA          YUCATAN          ZACATECAS
Maize
Ave. Yield p/ha. (tons)            2.8           5.6 8                                2.8
Irrig. Me. p/project                II8           84               0                  21
Beean
Ave. Yield p/ha. (tons)              O             0                                  1.3
Irrig. Me. p/projoct                13            12                                  25
Chile
Avo. Yield p/ha. (tons)                                                               1.8
Irrig. Ha. p/projoct                                                                  13
Estropajo
Ave. Yield p/ha. (tone)            1.8
Irrig. He. p/project               144
Citrus
Ave. Yield p/ha. (tons)                                           1.4
Irrig. Ha. p/project                                              49
Orange
Ave. Yield p/ha. (tons)              0                              0
Irrig. Ha. p/project                 4                             16
Sorghum
Ave. Yiold p/ha. (tons)             40
Irrig. He. p/project                20



Table A4.13
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECTS
I                           X of             C.otribution       X of              Average S
Ne. of           NO. of Visits                                        Positive    I   to th. Project    Positive        I  of Positive
State      Folleo-Up                by                   I    Efficient Adequate  Anmwers       I       the Project    Answers        j      Anuwers
Visit  by SPP       Exec. Agency                                                                 b b/                      I
ER                                                        I                                      I                                     I
Folio :297          6                   144               1             1         t              1                 1                   l
Folio 126    6                 0          *                             1         6              1                 9                   I
Folio 1269          1                    96               I             1         1              I                 1                   1
___         ___              I            ___       ___ ~~~~II                       _ _I
1                  24                l             a         1    64.7!    1                  2           66.7X   1         66.7X
SINALDA L                                                                                        l                                     I
Foli 2S67           2                     *               I             1         1              I                 0                   |
Folio 26S           4                     6                                                                         1  1  1  1        1
Folio 2U69          a                     a              1              1         1              I               6.                    l
Folio 2510          2                     *              1              1         1              l                 1                   l
Folie 2611          2                     *                             1         1              l                 1                   l                   -
Folio 2S12          *                     *               1             1         1              1                 1                   1
__                    _                             - --   I                                   _-                   I                       *o
16                    *               I             6         6   166.6X    1                4.6           7S.6!   I         87.6
YUCATAN                                                   I                                      I                                     I
Folio  167          *                    12              l              0         a              l               6. C
Folio 519           *                     a                              1       1                               I                   I
Folio 5169          a                     2              I              1         1              I                 1                   l
Folio 3119          *                     *               |             1         1              I                 1                   l
___         ___              I           ___        ___  .I          I               _ _I
0                   1                             J         a    75.6%    I                t.5           87.5C    I        81.35
ZACATECAS                                                i                                       i
Felio 3287          *                    48              1              1         1                                1 1                 1
Folio 52            a                    26              I              1         1                                 1                 1
Foiio 5296          8                    C1              I              9         t                                6                   l
--                               I                                       I                                     I----  --  -
9                  124                             2         2    66.7! X                     2           66.7!   I         66.7 mXlx
AVERACE          1.25                 24.15               I                                                                                             o
*/  Rating:  Yes a  1 No ul                                                                        --
b/  Good z 1, Fair - .6, Poor    S.



- 50 -
Annex 1
Pa2e 18 of 27
Table A4.14
LIVESTOCK
PHYSICAL APPEARANCE OF BUILDINGS, LIVESTOCK AND PASTURES
NUMBER OF ANSWERS
------------------------------------------------------------------__-----
BUILDINGS                   LIVESTOCK                      PASTURES
STATE        Good  Regular  Fair          Good  Regular  Fair          Good  Regular  Fair
GUERRERO         1       4      1             6        0     0              5      1       C
SINALOA          9       1      0             2        1     0              2      1       C
YUCATAN          5       0      0             5        0     0              5      0       0
ZACATECAS        0       2      0             2        0     0             0       0       1
Total            8       7      1            15        1     0             12      2       1
7 of Total      50%    44%      6%           94%       6%    0%           80%    13%      7



- 51 -
Annex 1
Page 19 of 27
Table A4.15
AGROINDUSTRIES
PROBLEMS WITH SUPPLY OF RAW MATERIALS AND MARKETING
NUMBER OF ANSWERS
--------------------------------------------------
STATE           SUPPLY OF RAW MATERIALS      MARKETING PROBLEMS
Adequate       Not Adequate     Yes           No
GUERRERO              3                0            3             1
YUCATAN               1                2             1            2
ZACATECAS             3                1            3             1
Total                 7                3             7            4
Z del Total          70Z              30%          64%           362



- 52 -
Annex 1
Paee 20 of 27
Table A4.16
AGROINDUSTRIES
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
State    # of Follow-up         # of Visists
Visits by SPP        Executing Agency
GUERRERO
Folio 1201           1                   0
Folio 1202           3                   1
Folio 1203           3                   3
Folio 1204           1                   0
8                  4
YUCATAN
Folio 3101           0                   0
Folio 3102           0                   0
Folio 3103           0                   0
0                  0
ZACATECAS
Folio 3201           3                 115
Folio 3202           1                 116
Folio 3203           0                 113
Folio 3204          10                 288
14                632



- 53 -
Annex 1
Table A4.17              Page 21 of 27
EDUCATION
NUMBER OF STUDENTS BEFORE AND AFTER THE PROJECT
Number of Students
State
Before   After
Project   Project Increase
GUERRERO
Folio     1261       93      800       707
Folio     1262      100      125        25
Folio     1263      350      550       200
Folio     1264       60      180       120
Folio     1266      247      260        13
Average             170      383       213
SINALOA
Folio    2561        10       78        68
Folio    2562       225      265        40
Folio    2563         0      300       300
Folio    2565       290      290         0
,____________________________
Average             131      233       102
YUCATAN
Folio    3161         0       25        25
Folio    3162       600      600         0
Folio    3163       375      450        75
Folio    3164       520      560        40
_____________________________
Average             374      409        35
ZACATECAS
Folio    3261        80      116        36
Folio    3262       120      420       300
Folio    3263       320      480       160
Folio    3264       128      128         0
Folio    3265        50      200       150
_____________________________
Average             140      269       129
TOTAL AVER.         198      324       126



- 54 -
Annex 1
Paee 22 of 27
Table A4.18
EDUCATION
SUPPLY OF TEACHING MATERIALS AND AVAILABILITY OF TRANSPORTATION
NUMBER OF ANSWERS
SUPPLY OF TEACHING MATERIALS         AVAILABILITY OF TRANSPORTATION
State                                 Not                                     Not
Adoquate            Adequate         Adequato               Adequate
GUERRERO                 1                   2               4                      1
SINALOA                n/a                 n/a               3                      1
YUCATAN                  1                   2               4                      t
5               ~~~~~2
ZACATECAS              n/a                 n/a
NEG. ANS./TOTAL ANS.                     SO.67X                                22.22%
n/a u not available



- 55 -
Annex 1
Page 23 of ?7
Table A4.19
HEALTH
POPULATION SERVED BY THE HEALTH CENTERS
No. of
No. of Hab.     Hab.    No. of Hab.  No. of      Days
STATE            per         to be     Currently  Patients    per
-----         Comunity      Served       Served   per Week    Week
GUERRERO
Folio    1267      20,560        9,000       6,000       400       7
Folio    1268      12,461        9,000      10,000       300       7
Folio    1270      19,239        5,000         500       200       7
SINALOA
Folio    2567         n/a        3,176       3,176       100       7
Folio    2568      12,000        3,551       3,551       200       7
Folio    2571       1,500          809         450        75       6
YUCATAN
Folio    3167      20,000        5,000       5,000       340       5
Folio    3168      28,000       28,000      28,000       350       5
Folio    3169      15,000        8,475       4,880       100       5
Folio    3170      16,000        5,300       5,300       100       7
ZACATECAS
Folio    3267         483          483         483        16       7
Folio    3268       1,476        1,476       1,476       210       7
Folio    3269       5,000        5,000       5,000        60       6
Folio    3270       5,148        5,148       1,600       n/a     n/a
-----------------------------------------------------
Total             156,867       89,418      75,416    2,451
Average  a/         12,067       6,387       5,387       189 b/    6
a/ Excluding those centers for which information is not available.
b/ Average number of patients seen in health centers any
particular day is 32.
n/a a not available



Table A4.20
HEALTH CENTERS
SOMIE PROBLEMS IDENTIFIED BY BENEFICIARIES
Probl_ withi  The Health Conter has:                            MAINTENUNCE              i PROBLEMS WITH
--------------       --------------------------------------------------------             II   EQUIPMENT
STATE              II    Supply of  II  Easy            Potable   l                  Not                        --------------
----  1 Medicines    Access Elect.   Water    jg  Adequate Adequate Timely Untimely   l   Yes           No
II     II                  -I---------     ----------  ---------
II    _ _ _ _  _  II  _ _ _ _  _ __   _ _ __    II   _  _ _ _ _ _  _ __  _ _ _ _ _  _ __  II   _ __
CUERRERO
Folio          1267        Yes        II  Yes    Y         Ys ou     l          1                1            II       1
Folio          126381      Yo u           Yoe    Ye        Yes      ll           1               1            ll       1
Folio          127111      Ye          l  Yes    Yes       Yo u                 1                          1  II       1
SINALOA             ll                ll                            ll                                        II
11               If                            11                                         11 
Folio         2U67         Yes            Yes    You       Yen      II                    1                1i          1 
Folio         2U831                   ll  Yoe    You       Yo u                           1                1  ll       1
Folio         267111       Y "I   No               No      You      ll                    1                1  11       1
YUCATAII
Folio          8167 1       No        II  Ye      Ye       Ye s                           1                1  II       1
Folio         316611       Yes            Yes    Yos       Yes      ll                    1                1  11       1
Folio          8169         No        ll  Yes    Yos       You      ll                    1                1  ll       1
Folio         3179 ii                 I  Yes    You        Yes                  1                1                     II  1
ZACATECAS           II                II                           II                                         ll
Folio         S267 1        No        II   No      No      No       II          1                             ll              1
Folio         812631        No         l  Ye    You        Ye s                 1                1            ll              1
Folio          820911                 ll  Yes    Yeu       Y         l                    1                1  ll              1
Folio         8279 ll                 l  Yoe       No      He                 n/.              n/o            II    n/a
II-_____     _II____________II__________________II                                            ________p
Total         Poe.           6 O            12       11       12                6                C                    10 10                
Neg.II        4         i     2        3        2                          7                861                3                x
X of Total    Poo. Il    66.61            86.7X   78.6X    86.7X  II         46.2            38.SX           ll   76.91
Response      Ne. II    40.1 IX   14.3X   21.4X    14.8X  6I 63.8X                                      61.51 II           23.1X            
-/s a not_avallablo
rn/n = not available



Table A4.21
STORES
PRODUCTS MOST FREQUENTLY PURCHASED
STATE                  CORN                                                                                              FRUITS A        TOILETTE
KANS   FLOURt  BTTER   RICE SUGAR   OIL DETERGENT CRACKERS MAIZE COFFEE SOAP  SARDINES    PASTA MILK   VECET. FLOUR  PAPER   SALT
GUERRERO           26X      eX       ON    21X    13X   es          es      es     4X 41  4               4X        es    as       a      eS     es     ex
SINALDA            21X    17X        41     NS    21X   51          es      4X ONX41                      es        4X    as      ex      8S    es      es
YUCATAN            25X      as       es     eX    17X   ex          ex      ex    us       oX   eX        es        es    es       eX    es    es       es
ZACATECAS           6X     151       X1    6X   1X   16X           oX     151    25X      es   Ss        es        65    es       eX    51    6C       es
Times Product
mentioned as       19      9X       1X     SX    151    eX         4X      4X     93      13  65          1X       3X   61        3S     3S     1X     1X
X o  Total 
Answers
1/ Pere ntage  represent the timme a product wa mntioned as percent of total annwer in each state.
D4
D -



Table  A4.22
4. ORS
AVtACE PRICES OF SOFE FMTLY  6034 PR0lCTS
ISMS          ROi FIOUR                          RICE            SUCAR           OIL            DETET            AIZE            FLUUR
STATE--
DICUA  PtRIVATE OICOSA PRIVATE DICOGA  PRIVATE D0COliA PRIVATE DICONEA PRIVATE DIC0 6A  PRIVATE D0CO6^A PRIVATE DICOUSA PRIVATE DIC"A  PRIVATE
a to                         712    012                                       656  1.002    au       Sea   2,567   2.6,2   1.610  2,350       330     750
57LlAA                       718    oI3    368       505   2,227  2. 00       724    596    613    s9e   2,225  2,255                        260      500      702      756
VUCATAN                      717    r/a                                       GIs    n/a    517    n/.   2,230    n/a    676    ./a          260      ./a
ZACTEAS                                      59      618                      600    700    a6       725   2.000  2,767                      265      310                                    1
U'
00
AVWA0E PRICE                 713    06       464     6      2.227  2,600      662    O0    530    695   2,306  2,627   1,243  2,350          305      Soo      702      75#                  1
m MWT
* DIFFE IN PRIM
PRIVATE STW   / DICO6                 271             22               142             26             242              12S            471              48S               73
AO. PRICE DIF.   25.
rn/a  not available
>
l'3
CQ 
0 (



- 59 -
Annex 1
Page 27 of 27
Tsble A4.23
STORES
SUMHARY OF CHANGES DESIRED BY BENEFICIARIES 1/
Changes desired in:
---------------------------------------
STATE                       Product        Product
Price            Type        Variety
GUERRERO          1002             672           672
SINALOA           100Z             602           602
YUCATAN            332             672          1002
ZACATECAS         1002            1002          1002
Average            832             732           822
1/ Percentages represent positive answers accrose
projects in a particular state.



MAP SECTION



iSw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
| -- _t - X U N I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T  E  D                                     S            T A       T ES<
MEXUiCO
UNITED                                STATES                                                                           's ' - - ... ' . . z ^.~.,.,.t ........ _,1 ......                                                                    . JAMAICA
30'                                                                                   ;.'                                                                                                                   GuArEMALA A C     NICARAGUA
PANAMA A
! $, i b ; _ COSTA RICOSA
SONORA; 0 N  Rt At
90.         rhI7        ow-. b.y A.
z ~~~~ i . X > C H I H U A H  U A   ,   .                                                                                                        s eab U ,r  Ms 
I     -RLOCATIONS OF MICRO-REGIONS
;~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                 cy HI  H, u' A H  U   A      /a;,?CSL.LT   /                                                      SU
:;CU R    N G O A'-HU._L_A   r,ti NORTE
---4                                         - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ MOCORITO                            C  
,r -.~   .x                                   =                                  ____J ,-i, _      ,,__ TC06ALALELOTA
ix             5.NU  E/ V                                                                                                                                ' ZACATAS:
0                         -4 rLO                                                                 NRIOGRANDE                                                              IeA/NK
0-                          1                                    /                      ""'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~FAESNILLOCALERA
--                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VALPARAISO
D U Rt   ';                                   4i~  A N G0                                   P~ AMUINA . , OSTAHC
L).'* 4MINY. ', L                  I                                                          S  . MrP100
>5>-~' <,-                            .          . * ,   -r /   /               -t-  \-A< .-Y U
ZACATECAS                  c-'         /                     z<       AGRANDO
SN     TAMAULII~AS                   7       AOA
-ohyes  I    - 1_te1s(~4nnu: P_cip-on  -                                       COSTA CHICA
LUI S                                           omE(EPE
---Internotonrzl--                                             P0un05!e MEIO9-/                                '/ #              A        P! W                 r      A
NAYARIT)                                r--UETS---Sn    RET
'- DEVELOPRIONERMENT P-
JALi  SCO  CALIENTES_ 
20'                                                                         QSUANAJUATO,                                                                                                       COZUMEL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C~~t9-'    -  U  TAA  0
COLIMA   ~ ~    COACAN    MEXICO
COLMA        ''4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  2 tAiLOr' ~    ~       ~        ~      ~          AM    
Iwsoyets in Millimeters (Mesn Annual Precipitation)          j                     'I5    S
----State Boundaries                                                     6tREG i CAX A  
International BoundariesA
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-PIDER MI
0     100    200    300    400    500
KILOMETERS
110'                                                                   00'.



