Document of
The World Bank                           FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reort No. P-3104-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR AN
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(PIDER III)
June 30, 1981
This document bh  * resrtetd ditribution snd may be used by recipiets ody In the perfordmnce of
their official dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank sthorIbation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since September 1, 1976 the Mexican peso has been floating; it
fluctuated around Mex$ 22.60 to the US dollar from mid-1977 to the second
half of of 1980. On June 22, 1981, the peso traded at 24.39 per US dollar.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BANRTRAL      National Rural Credit Bank
(Banco Nacional de Credito Rural, S.A.)
CIDER          Rural Development Research Center
(Centro de Investigacion de Desarrollo Rural)
COPLAMAR       Commission for Marginal Areas
(Coordinacion General del Plan Nacional de
Zonas Deprimidas y Grupos Marginados)
COPLADES       State Committee for Development Planning
(Comite de Planeacion para el Desarrollo Estatal)
CUC            Master Coordination Agreement
(Convenio Unico de Coordinacion)
DGDRI         Directorate General of Integrated Rural Development
(Direccion General de Desarrollo Rural Integrado)
DT            Rainfed Agricultural District
(Distrito de Temporal)
FICAR          Trust Fund for Credit in Irrigated Areas
(Fideicomiso Para Credito en Areas de Riego)
FIRA           Agricultural Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico
(Fideicomisos Instituidos en el Banco de Mexico en
Relacion con la Agricultura)
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
(Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
MRDO           Micro-regional Rural Development Office
OHDR           General Directorate for Hydraulic Works for Rural Development
(Direccion General de Obras Hidraulicas para el Desarrollo
Rural)
PEMEX         Mexican Petroleum Company (Petroleos Mexicanos)
PIDER          Integrated Rural Development Program
(Programa Integral de Desarrollo Rural)
PLANAT        National Program for Assistance to Rainfed Agriculture
(Programa Nacional de Apoyo a la Agricultura de Temporal
SAHOP          Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works
(Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Publicas)
SARH          Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
(Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos)
SPP            Secretariat of Programming and Budget
(Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto)
SRA            Secretariat of Agrarian Reform
(Secretaria de la Reforma Agraria)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT--PIDER III
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Guarantor:           United Mexican States
Amount:              US$175 million equivalent
Terms:               Fifteen years, including 3 years of grace, at
an interest rate of 9.6 percent per annum.
Onlending Terms:    Approximately US$22.5 million of the proposed loan would
be onlent through FIRA and FICAR to small farmers for
on-farm investments and rural industries development at
interest rates that would be agreed upon with the Bank
(para 76).
Project
Description:         The project seeks to increase the productivity, incomes,
and living standards of poor rural families in seventeen
micro-regions in the states of Yucatan, Zacatecas,
Guerrero, and Sinaloa. Of the 17 micro-regions in these
four states, programs in eight have been appraised. For
the remaining nine, detailed programs are in preparation;
appraisal, satisfactory to the Bank, of these programs
would be a condition of disbursement for each micro-
region.
In addition, the project would strengthen the on-going
PIDER rural development program through actions designed
to: (i) improve micro-regional investment planning;
(ii) increase beneficiary participation in the program
planning, execution, and evaluation stages, and in the
operation and maintenance of infrastructure; (iii) in-
crease effectiveness of extension, credit, and farmer
organization; (iv) conduct feasibility studies for produc-
tive investments and for applied research; (v) provide
training and specialized technical assistance; and
(vi) improve the monitoring and evaluation system.
The project includes investment in the following activities:
Directly Productive Components (61 percent of project cost)
Small-scale irrigation; soil and water conservation;
crop, livestock, and beekeeping development programs;
reforestation and afforestation; fisheries; rural
industries; and medium-term development credit.
This document has a restricted a"'  in and tn'y be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contekltt_..., ., otierwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Productive Support Components (26 percent of project cost)
Extension services; applied research in support of
the extension program; rural marketing facilities;
organization of farmer groups and support of land
titling programs; construction, rehabilitation, and
maintenance of rural roads; rural electrification;
a program to generate productive employment oppor-
tunities for rural women; and feasibility studies for
productive investments.
Social Infrastructure (10 percent of project cost)
Primary schools and boarding facilities; rural health
clinics; a pilot nutrition program; village water
supply systems; and village self-help programs for
community improvement.
Management (3 percent of project cost)
Monitoring and evaluation; and staff training.
Benefits: The project is expected to benefit some 250,000
families in the 17 micro regions. About 46,000 families
would benefit from the directly productive investments
under the project.
Risks: The project has institutional and climatic risks.
Institutional risk would be minimized by decentralizing
PIDER's planning and operations and by improving the
design and execution of several program components.
Stronger farm development programs through the rainfed
agricultural district program would minimize climatic
risks. Overall, considering the capacity of the imple-
menting agencies and the importance of this program, the
risks are acceptable.



- iii -
Estimated Cost: 1/                                             -     US$ Million------
Component                                Local   Foreign   Total
I.  Directly Productive                  155.6      42.2    197.8
A.  Agricultural Development         63.8       15.0     78.8
B.  Livestock Development            46.5      15.6      62.1
C.  Other                            45.3      11.6      56.9
II.  Productive Support                    67.6      14.2      81.8
III.  Social Infrastructure                 27.6       4.5      32.1
IV.  Project Management                    10.0       3.0      13.0
V.  Base Cost                            260.8      63.9    324.7
VI.  Contingencies                        146.6      34.4    181.0
Physical                          18.5       4.3      22.8
Price                            128.1      30.1    158.2
VII.  Total Cost                           407.4      98.3    505.7
Financial Plan:                                                -----US$ millions------
Local   Foreign   Total
Government                          267.7        -      267.7
Bank                                 76.7      98.3    175.0
Beneficiaries                        63.0        -       63.0
Total                               407.4      98.3    505.7
Estimated                                                   ------US$ millions-------
Disbursements:          Bank FY                           1982   1983   1984   1985
Annual                             50       63      56      6
Cumulative                         50      113    169    175
Economic
Rate of Return:   On the basis of 62 percent of investments for which benefits
were quantifiable, the rates of return for the 8 micro-
regions already appraised range from 14 percent to 44 per-
cent, with the aggregated rate of return estimated at
27 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 3231-ME, dated June 30, 1981.
1/   A detailed cost table is provided as Annex IV.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR AN INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PIDER III)
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera, S.A. with the Guarantee of United Mexican States for
the equivalent of US$175 million to help finance an Integrated Rural Development
Project   (PIDER III).  The loan would be repaid over 15 years, including
3 years of grace with interest at 9.6 percent per annum. US$22.5 million of
the proposed loan would be onlent through the Agricultural Trust Funds in the
Bank of Mexico (FIRA) and the Fund for Credit in Irrigated Areas (FICAR) for
on-farm investment and establishment or expansion of rural industries. Loans
would bear interest rates as agreed with the Bank (para. 76).
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The Mexican economic situation and major issues of economic policy
were analyzed in "Special Study of the Mexican Economy: Major Policy Issues
and Prospects" (2307-ME), distributed to the Executive Directors on May 30,
1979. The most recent economic mission visited Mexico in February 1980 and
is about to finalize its report. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Past Performance
3.        For the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico was
successful in achieving rapid economic growth while also maintaining stability
in prices and equilibrium in the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970, GDP
growth exceeded 6 percent per year in real terms, inflation averaged less than
5 percent per year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the dollar value of the
peso, fixed in 1954, was maintained until 1976. The Government's role in this
achievement was to carry out direct investments in infrastructure and in key
industries such as power, steel and petroleum, while creating a stable regula-
tory and institutional framework, as well as good profit prospects, to induce
private sector growth.
4.        This strategy produced considerable progress and better living
standards for many Mexicans. However, the incomes of poor farmers and marginal
urban dwellers, whose productivity was low and has not been increasing, have
been lagging behind. There was, therefore, little reduction in contrasts
within the Mexican economy. Land reform was largely implemented in the
late thirties and while further land redistribution has continued, most of
the peasants who received land could not significantly improve their economic
status as the parcels of land allocated were small, the soil often quite arid
and benefits from infrastructure, credit and technical assistance scant.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Second Urban and Regional Development Project (P-3035-ME of April 23,
1981). Only minor changes have been introduced in paras. 8 and 14.



Rapid population growth, which reached a peak of almost 3.5 percent per year
by the mid-1970s, also made social equity difficult to achieve. Even Mexico's
sustained economic growth was not sufficient to absorb the rapidly growing
labor force into productive employment, and by the 1970s some 50 percent of
the labor force was either relatively unproductive and poorly paid, or openly
unemployed.
5.        Policies undertaken to remedy this situation in the first half of
the seventies were somewhat self-defeating. As a result, by the mid-1970s
Mexico experienced increasing public sector deficits, inflation, large balance
of payments deficits, capital flight and a marked slowdown in the real rate of
growth of GDP, which dropped to 2 percent in 1976--the lowest rate experienced
since the mid-thirties. On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned the
fixed exchange rate and let the peso float; it devalued by 80 percent. The
authorities also adopted a plan for economic stabilization for which Mexico
obtained major support from the IMF. The Administration which took over in
December 1976, established as its main objective control of inflation, to be
followed by a return to high rates of economic growth. The former was to be
achieved through stabilization policies, while the latter was to be made
possible thanks to the impact of major oil discoveries which would reduce
the foreign exchange constraint. Both objectives were important in restoring
the confidence of the private sector.
Recent and Current Situation
6.        The Government succeeded in bringing inflation down to 17 and 18 per-
cent in 1978 and 1979, respectively, as against an annual rate of almost
29 percent in 1977. The deficit in the current account of the balance of
payments peaked at US$4.2 billion (or 5.3 percent of GDP) in 1975 and declined
to US$1.8 billion (equivalent to 2.5 percent of GDP) in 1977. Favorable oil
prospects and increasing capital inflows brought about a rapid increase in
imports reflecting both a decisive reduction in protectionism and the growing
demand for capital and intermediate goods upon which the expansion of the
economy depended. The current account deficit increased to US$2.9 billion (or
3.2 percent of GDP) in 1978 and further to US$5.2 billion (about 4.3 percent
of GDP) in 1979. The public sector deficit peaked at about 9 percent of GDP
in 1975 and declined to about 7 percent in 1979. Mobilization of savings by
the banking system has recovered. GDP growth was about 7 percent in 1978 and
8 percent in 1979 as compared to 2 percent in 1976.
7.        The growth record for 1980 continued to be favorable and GDP is
estimated to have increased at about 7.5 percent. The current account deficit
of the balance of payments was much higher than anticipated due to continued
expansion of imports (mostly capital and intermediate goods and foodstuff)
and is estimated to have been US$6.7 billion (about 4 percent of GDP).
Despite the substantial inflow of imported goods, strict domestic credit
restrictions, generally adequate lending rates and modest increases in real
wages coupled with substantial productivity increases, inflation has been
higher than anticipated. This is essentially because of expansionary budgetary
policies, with investments increasing at a rate of more than 15 percent a year
in real terms. A shortage of essential consumer goods and construction materials,
aggravated by the inadequacy of the transport system to handle distribution of
domestically produced goods along with increasing imports, has contributed to
price increases. The increase in the consumer price index in 1980 was around
30 percent.



- 3 -
8.        The persistence of strong inflationary pressures is beginning to
exert increasing influence upon a number of factors in the Mexican economic
scene. First, the now substantial differential between price trends in Mexico
and in its major trading partners, which has not been fully compensated in the
exchange rate, is eroding the hitherto adequate inducements to export non-oil
goods and makes imported goods increasingly attractive to domestic users, even
in cases where domestic production is efficient. WThile the peso has been
allowed to depreciate vis-a-vis other currencies, its float is very moderate.
It is estimated that by the end of 1981 such depreciation will be of the order
of 8-9 percent. At the present forecast of the 1981 price movements in Mexico
and in the world markets this would compensate for only a part of the
differential between these trends. Secondly, wage pressures, which have
been moderate and have not contributed to the inflationary process up to now,
may gain force if strong inflation continues. Both these impacts could affect
the pattern of resource allocation in Mexico, tilting it toward capital inten-
sive processes of production.
9.        The Government will not have an easy task in maintaining price
increases much below 30 percent during 1981. The need to expand public invest-
ment in key infrastructure sectors and to maintain the present level of expen-
diture in the energy sector leaves relatively little scope for significant
adjustments in the size or structure of public expenditure. At the same
time, the intention of the Government to implement much delayed increases
in prices of publicly supplied goods like gasoline will imply a temporary push
upwards of the price index.
Economic Problems and Prospects
10.       Mexico has the organizational and natural resources necessary to
attain its ambitious goals of rapid growth and alleviation of poverty.
The new petroleum riches will greatly relax the financial constraints on
growth. The proven oil and gas reserves are estimated at about 60 billion
barrels. Exploitation of these reserves should allow Mexico to substantially
increase production of crude oil and natural gas from the equivalent of about
1.2 million bbl/day in 1976. The recently stated goal of the Government is to
reach a production level of about 3.0 million bbl/day in 1981, and to more or
less maintain it at a level that will accommodate exports of 1.5 million
bbl/day (compared to the 1.1 million bbl/day target up to September, 1980).
The Government continues to indicate its unwillingness to exceed this limit
for fear that Mexico will increasingly become a classical "oil producing
country" with the economic and social tensions that would ensue.  But even at
this production level, the challenge is:  how to mobilize Mexico's resources--
its human skills, its institutions, and its experience--to help resolve its
long term development problems. The most serious of these are poverty,
unemployment, inadequate growth of agricultural production in non-irrigated
lands, and urban-regional imbalances.
11.       Poverty:  Mexicans have participated unevenly in the remarkable
economic growth of the last several decades. According to estimates for
1977, at least 2.8 million households (25 percent of the total) had incomes
of less than one-third the national average, of which at least 2.4 million
(22 percent of the total) lived in absolute poverty. The root causes of
this persistent problem are three: rapid population growth, past neglect
of non-irrigated agriculture (where some two-thirds of the poor are principally
employed), and slow absorption of labor in high-productivity jobs.



- 4 -
12.       The Government is acting on all three fronts.  A family planning
program started in 1972 has already helped reduce population growth from
3.5 percent per year to an estimated 2.9 percent in 1980. The program is
being further strengthened by the present Administration, with the ambitious
goal of reducing population growth to 2.5 percent per year by 1982 and to
1 percent by the year 2000. New approaches are also taking hold in rainfed
agriculture (see para. 15). On the employment front, new tax incentives have
reduced the anti-employment bias and additional efforts to stimulate employment
will have to be continued.  The expected rapid growth of output should also
create jobs more rapidly. In spite of this progress, however, the still rapid
growth of population and the staggering increase of the labor force (at 3.7
percent per annum) made unavoidable by the high percentage of young people in
today's population, renders the eradication of absolute poverty a difficult
goal to attain in the near future. The Government has under its consideration
several types of subsidies for the poor. These could prove to be short-term
palliatives and preempt resources which would otherwise be available for
investment in employment-creating activities or for improving educational or
health standards of the poor on a more permanent basis.
13.       Open and hidden unemployment, which are now respectively at 6-7
percent and 40 percent of the labor force, will remain major problems in the
years to come. With the expected GDP growth rate of 8 percent per annum, the
economy should be able to absorb the additional labor force, assuming no
significant change in the participation rate (now at about 29 percent) and
some increase in labor productivity. In absolute terms, however, the present
levels of underemployment and unemployment are likely to remain.
14.       A National Employment Plan was published in 1979.  It calls
for a number of measures to strengthen the so-called informal sector in both
urban and rural areas. To increase the productivity of those employed outside
the modern sector, and their employment opportunities, a major effort will be
required in the area of vocational training. Technical assistance programs
are also needed to stimulate more organized and structured forms of activities,
especially in the services sector. While there is no doubt that the authorities
are concerned about unemployment and underemployment, and while the institu-
tional structure to carry out some important programs already exists, a concen-
trated effort will be required to take effective action and to make better use
of human resources, by improving technical skills to reduce substantially the
level of hidden and open unemployment.
15.       In agriculture, crop and livestock production has shown inadequate
growth since the mid-1960s and, of late, demand has outstripped domestic
supplies of grains. Faced with diminishing returns to investment in new
large-scale irrigation works, continuing low productivity and income per
capita in the non-irrigated ("rainfed") sector, widespread malnutrition and
increasing dependence on imported food (especially grains), the present
Administration has launched a major program (SAM - the Mexican Food System)
aimed at increasing self-sufficiency in food, providing for minimum nutritional
needs of the rural and urban poor and increasing rural employment. SAM
emphasizes increased production of grains through a combined system of sub-
sidies, guaranteed producer prices and government underwriting of crop loss
risks. Greater emphasis is being placed on technical assistance, demonstration



- 5 -
and credit to develop the underutilized rainfed agricultural potential.
Programs to rehabilitate existing irrigation works serving nearly one million
ha are underway. Small-scale irrigation development is being promoted.
Construction of new large-scale irrigation units continues, but now represents
a smaller proportion of government investment. The banking system is being
encouraged to provide greater support to agricultural production and processing
programs. These initiatives should lead to an acceleration of production
growth, more equal development opportunities for Mexico's farmers, and an
improvement in the living conditions of the rural poor.
16.       The main urban-regional problems are two-fold:  (a) growing conges-
tion, pollution, high cost of services (especially water) and other manage-
ment problems that stem from the continued rapid growth of Mexico City (already
the third most populous metropolitan area in the world and moving rapidly to
become the first) and other areas in the dry, densely populated central
plateau, and (b) retarded development, poverty and great difficulty in pro-
viding better jobs or adequate public services to the one-third of all Mexicans
who live in towns of less than 2,500 inhabitants. The present Government has
taken many positive steps to confront these problems, including an administra-
tive re-organization, elaboration of a comprehensive plan, and introduction of
a strong package of incentives to promote growth in a few well-selected growth
poles.
17.       The expected high growth rate of the economy in the years to come
is the country's strongest weapon with which to reduce poverty and unemployment.
Industry has moved to the leading position and is expected to play a major role
in expanding domestic production and exports. A National Industrial Development
Plan was published in 1979 and it reflects the preoccupation of the present
Administration with the long-term prospects of the industrial sector and their
implications for employment. Industry has the potential for considerable
expansion in many areas, including efficient import substitution in chemicals,
petrochemicals and capital goods as well as exports of a variety of manufactured
products. While most of the above industries are known for their capital
intensity, they are expected to promote secondary industries with considerable
employment opportunities. These will be enterprises producing secondary
petrochemicals, finished plastic goods, metal parts and components for capital
goods. Tourism export earnings are also expected to increase substantially.
The prospects for the industrial sector are, however, subject to the caveats
mentioned in para. 8 above.
18.       The main problem for the Mexican economy in the years to come will
remain the reconciliation of high growth rates with relative price stability
and a larger participation of low-income groups in the expanding wealth of
the nation. The National Development Plan, published in April, 1980, marks
the final step in the planning activities carried out by the present Adminis-
tration and places in a consistent framework the specific targets indicated
in a number of sectoral plans prepared in the previous two years. In addition
to presenting a macroeconomic picture of development prospects, the National
Development Plan dwells in great detail on the policies required to achieve
various economic and social targets. These policies are essentially sound but
call for a major implementation effort on the part of the Administration.
Growth with low inflation poses difficult challenges of adjusting prices
of public goods and services without undermining the existing consensus



- 6 -
of the country, and improving income distribution would call for policies that
encourage labor intensive technologies in industry and agriculture without
slowing down modernization of the economy.
19.       Mexico's public and publicly guaranteed debt service ratio has
been increasing over the recent past and peaked at 69 percent in 1979. This
high ratio reflects the still relatively low level of exports to GNP and the
high proportion of Mexican borrowing from commercial banks; the ratio of
external public debt to GNP (24 percent in 1979) is average for middle-income
countries. The public debt service ratio declined to around 30 percent in
1980, not only as a result of rapid increases in petroleum exports but also
because some of the debt contracted on the least favorable terms had been
prepaid. Debt service on Bank loans amounted to about 3.2 percent of public
debt service in 1980; this ratio is projected to remain about the same during
the early and mid-1980s. The Bank currently holds about 5.7 percent of
Mexico's total medium and long-term public debt, and this ratio is not likely
to change significantly over the next few years. Mexico is creditworthy for
borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
Bank Operations
20.       As of May 31, 1981, Mexico had received 71 loans from the Bank amounting
to US$4,954.4 million net of cancellations and terminations; of these, 38 loans
totalling US$1,870.4 million were fully disbursed. The Bank held US$4,235.1 mil-
lion, of which US$2,072.4 million had not yet been disbursed. Some 43 percent of
Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural development (24 loans for
US$2,132.7 million), 15 percent for industry (12 loans for US$747.5 million),
14 percent for power (12 loans for US$704.8 million), and 17 percent for
transportation (15 loans for US$830.4 million); the remaining 11 percent has
been for water supply (US$244.5 million), tourism (US$114 million), and urban
development (US$180.5 million) projects. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans as of May 31, 1981 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.       Implementation of most Bank-financed projects was delayed during
the period of economic difficulties in the mid-1970s and during the period of
adjustment and stabilization that followed the September 1976 devaluation of
the peso. Since then, the Government has taken important actions to accelerate
implementation of the projects. Adequate budget financing has been provided.
Projects which had important structural constraints were modified and rephased
to account for changed circumstances. Government and Bank officials have
periodically met to review project implementation, and greater attention has
been focused in Mexico on monitoring project implementation and disbursements.
As a result of these measures, most of the Bank-assisted projects are proceed-
ing satisfactorily and plans have been formulated to strengthen execution of
those projects where improvement is still needed. The effectiveness of these
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the
Second Urban and Regional Development Project, (R-3035-ME of April 23, 1981>.
However, minor changes have been introduced in paras. 20-22, and 24-28.



actions is reflected in disbursement totals. In FY78 US$91 million were
disbursed to Mexico, in FY79 disbursements totalled US$233 million and in
FY80 disbursements further increased to US$404 million, or 38 percent of
the undisbursed balance at the beginning of the year. FY81 disbursements
through May were US$350 million.
IFC Operations
22.       As of May 31, 1981, IFC had made investment commitments in
23 companies in Mexico, for a total of US$551.2 million, of which
US$401.2 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement
of IFC investments is presented in Annex II.
Bank Strategy
23.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(i) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (ii) help finance projects that make, directly
or indirectly, significant contributions to output and employment; (iii) help
reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances; and (iv) help break bottlenecks
preventing more rapid growth. Therefore, the Bank has preferentially sup-
ported projects of high social priority that help the rural or urban poor,
projects that promote higher levels of employment and production, and those
that help to decentralize economic activity. Given Mexico's potential for
satisfying its future foreign exchange needs, the Bank is now concentrating
on the institution-building aspects of the projects it finances and on the
development of suitable sectoral and economic policies through regular dis-
cussions with the authorities as well as in the context of project financing.
The Bank is thus helping to create the institutions, policies and mechanisms
which would channel self-generated resources to meet the above mentioned
objectives in the future. The Government is fully in accord with this new
emphasis, and has requested that the Bank concentrate its efforts on sectors
which are of key importance to Mexico's development and which require insti-
tutional improvements and/or the formulation of suitable policies with great-
est urgency. The proposed project would match this strategy by strengthening
the planning, implementing, and monitoring capacity of institutions at the state
and local level, by improving beneficiary participation in rural development
efforts, and by helping finance the productive, support, and social infrastructure
investment necessary to increase the incomes and improve the living standards of
the rural poor in four states.
24.       Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture, and the
sector's crucial importance to the country's further development, the Bank has
made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. The Bank's agricultural
lending program for Mexico has four goals: first, to increase productivity of
presently cultivated lands through selected programs of irrigation and on-farm
improvements; second, to improve the productivity of small farmers through
programs for (a) rural development, (b) rainfed agricultural development, and
(c) bringing new areas in the humid tropics under cultivation; third, to
complement infrastructure investments with general support services, including
agricultural extension and marketing programs and provision of medium-term
credit; and fourth, to promote employment opportunities in rural areas through



- 8 -
pcograms of agro- and rural-industries. The Bank has made eleven loans in
FY76-81 totalling US$1,466 million for irrigation, rural development and
;,ricultural, agro-industrial and livestock credit programs. Several projects
for rainfed agriculture, rural development, irrigation and support services
are in preparation.
25.       Past Bank lending for industry has been aimed at (a) assisting
the Government's efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit, (b)
decentralizing industrial activities away from the major and increasingly
congested urban areas, and (c) promoting greater employment in the sector by
supporting medium- and small-scale industry. A steel project which the
Bank helped structure and finance is now operating in a previously under-
developed area on the west coast of Mexico (Lazaro Cardenas) and the city
in which it is located is developing into a new growth pole. The fertilizer
sector has been strengthened by two Bank assisted projects which the State-
owned fertilizer company (FERTIMEX) is carrying out. Loans for projects to
promote the development of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises and
to support an industrial equipment fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive
Directors in FYs78-79; they offer support to the private sector at a time of
rapid expansion. The Executive Directors also approved in FY80 a second small
and medium scale industries project and a project for the mining sector, which
up to now has received insufficient resources from the financial system.
Two capital goods industries projects are under discussion for possible Bank
support, which would aim at assisting the Government develop adequate policies
for the sector, institution-building and the transfer of appropriate tech-
nology to Mexico, so that employment might be increased in the engineering
subsector and the base in the manufacturing industry strengthened. One of
these projects was recently appraised. A project to reduce air and water
pollution in the Mexico City and adjoining areas has been appraised and will
be presented to the Executive Directors in the coming months.
26.       As regards physical infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been
focused on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional
reforms and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms
to help generate additional resources for investment financing. The Airports
Development Project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy of
regional integration; the Fourth Railway Project (FY81) supports improvements
of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The Mexico
City Water Supply and Sewerage Project (FY 73) was instrumental in the strength-
ening of specialized institutions for the efficient provision of water and
sewerage in the capital city. The First and Second Medium Size Cities Water
Supply and Sewerage Projects (FY76 and 81, respectively) were designed to
reinforce the planning, managerial and financial performance of specialized
water supply and sewerage institutions at the federal and municipal levels
and contribute to the establishment of tariffs more closely related to costs.
A Highway Sector Project was approved by the Executive Directors in FY79. A
loan to assist the Mexican Government in structuring large investments in port
development was approved by the Executive Directors in March 1981.
27.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional
economic disparities prevailing in Mexico. In June 1976 the Government
enacted a law of human settlements to provide a new institutional framework



- 9 -
to deal with the pressing problems of over-concentration of economic activi-
ties in the larger metropolitan areas. The Government has adopted a National
Urban Development Plan that spells out its regional development priorities
in operational terms, and several projects are now being prepared to meet
the needs for basic urban services for poor families and to provide key
regional infrastructure in selected priority cities. One such project, to
assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area on the West
Coast, was approved by the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second project
for oil-producing southeastern Mexico was approved by the Executive Directors
in FY81.
28.       A loan in support of a national program for the vocational and
technical training has been negotiated and is expected to be presented to the
Executive Directors shortly. The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is
assisting CECADE (a similar institute under the Ministry of Programming and
Budgeting) in training Government staff in several aspects of project prepara-
tion, monitoring and evaluation. A course on urban and regional development
has recently been concluded and several courses for agriculture, rural develop-
ment, and agro-industries are programmed for the near-term.
29.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans totalling
US$2,428 million to December 31, 1980. Over sixty percent of this lending
has gone for agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance
for transportation, industry, water supply, and tourism infrastructure. In
1980, the IDB approved three loans totalling US$280 million for water supply,
fisheries and pre-investment study projects. The IDB and the Bank have worked
in parallel on several projects; most recently the IDB and the Bank have each
made loans for the National Program for Small-Scale Agricultural Infrastruc-
ture, the Integrated Rural Development Program (PIDER), agricultural and live-
stock credit, small- and medium-scale industries development, and hotel develop-
ment projects. The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has
approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural development project in the State of
Oaxaca which was appraised by the Bank's staff and for which the Bank is acting
as cooperating institution for administering the loan. The Bank has financed
a few projects in which there has been parallel financing from bilateral and
commercial sources (e.g., power, steel and tourism development projects). In
recent discussions with the Government, the possibility of a more widespread
use of cofinancing arrangements was explored and we intend to seek opportuni-
ties for such cofinancing in the near future.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
Background
30.       Mexico has a land area of 197 million ha, of which only about
30 million are considered cultivable. Another 78 million ha are classi-
fied as range land and 44 million ha are considered suitable for forestry.
Of the potentially arable land, only 15 million ha are now being cropped,
including about 5 million ha under irrigation.



- 10 -
31.       Agriculture employs about 39 percent of Mexico's labor force,
providing a livelihood for some 4 million families, of which 1.3 million are
landless. The majority of this labor force is engaged in activities with very
low productivity, and about two-thirds have earnings below the minimum wage.
32.       Almost 90 percent of rural Mexicans suffer some degree of malnutri-
tion. Forty percent of them--about 9.5 million people--are seriously mal-
nourished. Half of this seriously malnourished population are children under
the age of 14. Social infrastructure in the small towns is minimal; for
example, in 1970, only one-third of the rural families had access to potable
water. Few towns have waste disposal systems meeting acceptable sanitary
standards.
33.       The social consequences of low incomes, limited employment possibili-
ties, and the lack of infrastructure and social services are severe. Most
farmers barely produce at the subsistence level and must seek jobs in urban
areas. The landless compete for the few low paying seasonal farm jobs avail-
able and are migrating in large numbers to urban areas; over half of the new
entrants in the rural labor force migrate to the cities. Preventable
illnesses--gastrointestinal disease, pneumonia, malnutrition--are common,
and the principal factors that result in an infant mortality rate in rural
areas that is half again as high as the national average.
Government Policies and Programs
34.       Programs to increase agricultural productivity, employment, and
incomes are receiving priority attention. A major effort to increase cropped
area and productivity in the rainfed agricultural zones is underway. The
program utilizes the recently created rainfed agricultural district structure
to provide, in a timely and integrated manner, farm extension, demonstration,
applied research, soil and water conservation, and credit services to farmers.
A recent Bank loan partially financed the strengthening of this program at
the national level and intensive program implementation in nine of the 124
established districts. Less intensive, but significant, strengthening of the
program is underway in the other 115 districts using the Government's resources.
Irrigated agriculture, the source of most of Mexico's increases in agricultural
production, will continue to be expanded with the ultimate goal of doubling
the irrigated area. Several important large-scale projects are being con-
structed or are in the advanced stages of planning, and increasing emphasis is
being placed on small-scale irrigation. A sizeable program to increase the
efficiency of water use and intensity of cropping in existing irrigated areas
is also underway.
35.       Basic needs programs are receiving much greater levels of funding.
The Commission for Depressed Areas and Marginal Groups (COPLAMAR), begun in
1977, now has an annual budget of US$1.7 billion. COPLAMAR finances Government
agencies' investments in rural roads, potable water systems, health clinics,
housing, and rural stores in selected zones with extremely limited production
potential where programs such as the rainfed agricultural districts or inte-
grated rural development (paras 36-45) would have little chance of success.



- 11 -
36.        Mexico's extensive Integrated Rural Development Program, PIDER,
has been strengthened and intensified. PIDER concentrates on funding
productive investments in selected zones that have potential for increasing
agricultural production; it complements productive investment with the
necessary support services and social infrastructure to ensure a balanced
development.
The PIDER Program
37.       The PIDER program was established in 1973 to focus public investment
in well-defined regions with widespread poverty and with unrealized productive
potential. PIDER's purpose was, and remains, to help increase incomes, employ-
ment, and living standards of the rural poor through execution of comprehensive
programs of productive, support and social infrastructure investments. The
basic programming unit in PIDER is the micro-region. Micro-regions are areas
of one or more contiguous municipalities in which there are a high degree of
poverty and an underutilized productive potential. To date, 130 micro-regions
have been established, covering about half of the nation's rural poor. A
typical micro-region has an area of 8,000 square kilometers, and a population
(mostly rural) of about 135,000.
38.       PIDER is a program that helps focus the efforts of the various
Government secretariats and agencies to carry out investments and provide
services.l/ PIDER provides the mechanism necessary to maintain consistency
between the actions of the different agencies and serves as the channel
through which additional budget resources are provided to the agencies for
work in the PIDER micro-regions. PIDER accounted for an average of 8.8
percent of total public investment in the rural areas during the period of
1977-1980. As of January 1980, PIDER had invested US$1.6 billion in these
micro-regions; 44 percent was devoted to directly productive investments,
41 percent to productive support, and 15 percent to social infrastructure
investments.
39.       The PIDER program has largely been financed by Government resources;
about 18 percent of the funding has come from loans from the World Bank, IDB,
and IFAD. A loan for US$110 million was approved by the Bank in May 1975 to
assist activities in thirty micro-regions (PIDER I). A second loan of US$120
million assisting development in twenty micro-regions was approved in July
1977. The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is supporting the program in
an additional fifteen micro-regions with a loan of US$40 million. IFAD has
financed two micro-regions in the State of Oaxaca with a loan of US$22 million;
the Bank appraised the project and is acting for IFAD as the cooperating
institution for administering the loan.
1/   Agencies participating in PIDER include the Secretariat of Agriculture and
Water Resources and its sub-agencies, the Secretariat of Human Settlements
and Public Works, the Mexican Coffee Institute, the Coconut Promotion Agency
of Guerrero, the Secretariat of Land Reforms, Department of Fisheries,
National Bank for Rural Credit, Bank of Mexico, National Fruit Development
Commission, Administrative Committee for the Federal School Construction
Program, Federal Electricity Commission, Secretariat of Public Health and
Assistance, and the National Company for Popular Subsistence.



- 12 -
Organization and Management
40.       PIDER was among the first programs in Mexico that was based on
multi-year, multi-sectoral development and investment plans. Activities in
each micro-region are based on such a plan. In PIDER I and II, micro-region
plans were prepared by the Secretariat of Programming and Budget (SPP) at the
federal level with the participation of micro-region staff who in turn worked
with project beneficiaries to define priorities and strategies. This highly
centralized approach was necessary at the beginning to gain experience in
programming and to ensure consistency while building the institutional capacity
in the micro-regions. In 1978, the Government, with Bank assistance, undertook
a mid-term evaluation of PIDER I. This evaluation served as a focal point for
a new strategy in 1980 that would give state governments a larger role in the
planning and implementation of PIDER activities, assign responsibility for
micro-regional programming to micro-regional level staff, and increase the
participation of beneficiaries in project planning and execution.
41.       Federal Level.  PIDER programming guidelines and policies are set
by the Directorate of Regional Programming in SPP. The General Directorate of
Integrated Rural Development Programs in SPP is responsible for: (a) establish-
ing policies, providing guidelines and support for the preparation, implementa-
tion, and monitoring and evaluation of integrated rural development programs;
(b) coordinating among the various line agencies participating in PIDER;
(c) establishing budgetary procedures and annual budget allocations; and
(d) reviewing the micro-regional investment programs.
42.       State Level.  PIDER has been incorporated under the umbrella of the
Master Coordination Agreement (CUC) between the federal and state governments.
CUC has existed since 1977 as a means of revenue sharing, allowing the federal
government to fund state governments' infrastructure investment programs
(primarily roads, schools, water supply, and public buildings). Under this
recent amplification of CUC, the state level authorities will take responsibility
for the detailed micro-region planning and program execution, following broad
guidelines set at the federal level. Overall state-level rural development
policy and priorities are set by the State Development Planning Committee
(COPLADE). The COPLADE, chaired by the state Governor, includes chief repre-
sentatives of the federal agencies in the state. The COPLADE has responsibility
for formulating specific development activities and reviewing of federal
agencies' budgets for the state. Each COPLADE has a rural development
subcommittee which is charged with responsibility for setting state-level
policies and strategies for rural development and overseeing the implementation
of programs, such as PIDER. The SPP state representative is technical secretary
of the subcommittee. At the state level, SPP plays an important role in
programming investment plans, monitoring and evaluating the results of PIDER,
and maintaining budget supervision.
43.       Micro-regional Level.  A micro-regional development subcommittee,
consisting of mayors, representatives of the rural communities selected by the
beneficiaries, and technicians of the state and federal implementing agencies,
has responsibility for:



- 13 -
(a) short- and medium-term programming for the micro-region;
(b) facilitating coordination and execution of the PIDER
micro-regional program components; and
(c) monitoring of program performance and supervision of
program operation, with special emphasis on beneficiary
participation.
44.       SPP has a Micro-regional Rural Development Office (MRDO) in each
micro-region. The MRDO is a recent innovation that consolidates a number
of functions in one team to help ensure the effectiveness of PIDER in each
micro-region. The MRDO is headed by a micro-regional coordinator who is
the person primarily responsible for promoting the execution of the plan
for the micro-region. He is assisted by teams responsible for working
with the community to ensure the effective participation of beneficiaries in
PIDER planning and operation, a study team to analyze the development needs
and potential of the micro-region, and a monitoring and evaluation team
to monitor project progress and evaluate project impact. The micro-region
coordinator represents PIDER in other development and sectoral organizations.
For example, the rainfed agricultural districts have an executive committee
responsible for, inter alia, determining agricultural development priorities
and monitoring agricultural programs. The micro-region coordinator is a
member of the executive committee, ensuring that PIDER's needs and priorities
are taken into account in determining state and micro-regional agricultural
policies, as well as ensuring that PIDER plans accurately reflect the agricul-
tural development support that the Rainfed Districts' staff can provide.
45.       This new process was first tested in the four states included in the
proposed project (Guerrero, Sinaloa, Yucatan and Zacatecas). In practice, it
has worked well, and represents important progress in decentralizing PIDER
planning and executing authority to the local level. In those micro-regions
where this system has been fully implemented, community participation and
interest has increased, government agencies have better integrated their
efforts, and the quality of micro-regional planning has improved. As a result
of these experiences, PIDER and CIDER, with the assistance of state and
micro-region staff, have prepared a manual for investment programming, and have
begun using the new system in all PIDER micro-regions.
Bank Experience with PIDER
46.       In 1978, the Mexican Government and the World Bank jointly undertook
a mid-term evaluation of the first Bank loan (PIDER I). The report was done
only four years after the beginning of PIDER, before most of the productive
investments had reached full development. Therefore, most of its conclusions
regarding impact are qualitative. For the few cases in which an attempt
is made to quantify, the results are indicative of a small sample of subprojects
rather than of program-wide impact. With the completion of PIDER I, SPP is now
preparing a Project Completion Report which will assess the physical progress
and the development impact of PIDER I. The following summary relies on the
mid-term evaluation, and should not be interpreted as a final evaluation of
PIDER's results.



- 14 -
47.       PIDER has achieved an important institutional impact.  Most
specifically, PIDER has helped:
(a) develop a flexible and efficient method to fund thousands of
small projects through the decentralization of expenditures to the
state level;
(b) coordinate, at both the federal and state levels, the investment
activities of numerous executing agencies;
(c) strengthen the activities of agencies involved in rural development;
(d) create a professional rural development research agency (CIDER); and
(e)  organize state-level development committees, which were
later transformed into the COPLADES.
48.       In general, the components which required least organization of
beneficiaries and coordination among agencies for their operation (e.g., roads,
electrification, schools) or which had short development periods and adequate
technical support (e.g., small-scale irrigation, goat keeping and beekeeping)
were most likely to be operating with few problems. Those requiring a high
degree of beneficiary training or cooperative management (e.g., large livestock,
rural industries, water supply) were more likely to be functioning at an
unsatisfactory level.
49.       Productive Projects.  Productive investments under PIDER I empha-
sized small-scale irrigation and, to a lesser degree, livestock development.
Small-scale irrigation works have usually resulted in significant increases in
production and income and created additional jobs, most of which were taken by
landless individuals. In general, livestock projects financed under PIDER I had
a relatively small effect on production, income and permanent employment. A
number of livestock units have encountered serious technical and organizational
problems and have not resulted in the expected benefits. In general, problems
have been encountered because large units with 15-50 participating farmers
have been proposed and the organizational problems have proven too difficult.
In other cases, livestock programs were not fully appropriate on technical
grounds; the lack of alternative technologies hampered planners who sought
to increase farm productivity. These difficulties were compounded in those
cases where construction or installation of infrastructure was carried out
by one agency, while credit for stocking or assistance for making the project
productive was provided by another.
50.       Changes are being made in PIDER's livestock program to take advantage
of experience--both the problems mentioned above and the successful cases.
Smaller units are being promoted; greater emphasis is being placed on the
generally more successful small-stock projects (goats, pigs) and apiculture
where organizational problems are fewer. Technical support has been increased
through major improvements in the Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources'
Rainfed Agricultural Districts Program which will help ensure the viability
of future livestock investments and strengthen the involvement of credit
institutions (paras 34, 65). Better criteria for design and operation of
livestock subprojects are being developed and would be applied under the
project (para 63).



- 15 -
51.       Productive Support.  The quality and impact of productive support
programs (e.g., extension, beneficiary organization, roads and credit) under
PIDER has been uneven but improving. Agricultural extension, for example, has
been strengthened by the reorganization of the service along the lines of the
training-and-visit system through the rainfed agricultural districts (DT)
program (para 34). The DT program has been particularly useful in promoting
involvement of agricultural credit institutions in development programs of
SARH, thereby ensuring that credit is provided to complement extension and
infrastructure programs. The rural roads component of PIDER has accounted for
the bulk of productive support investments. CIDER evaluations found that road
investments typically resulted in 70 percent reduction in cost of goods transport,
making feasible the use of purchased inputs and the marketing of agricultural
surplus. Roads have also had an important, but transitory, effect in generating
jobs.
52.       Social Infrastructure.  Benefits from social infrastructure are
difficult to quantify, but evidence is that communities have valued access to
potable water, schools, and health clinics. Improved health services may have
substantial financial benefits, since very often sickness is the major cause
of family financial problems. Easier access to water has improved family health
and productivity, enabling many families to start small irrigated vegetable
gardens, and giving women additional time to devote to raising of small
animals or employment in cottage industries. Water supply projects have, in
a large number of cases, been troubled by poor operation, inadequate mainte-
nance, and breakdown of the systems. Inadequate attention was devoted to the
organization and training of villages to operate and maintain the systems once
installed and beneficiary communities did not fully understand that collection
of adequate water charges was necessary to pay for the upkeep of the system.
Both PIDER and the Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP)
have taken corrective measures. Beneficiary participation in the planning of
water supply projects has increased with the decentralization of micro-region
planning (paras 43, 44); maintenance and operation requirements are reviewed
with the beneficiaries before works are started; and local management--State
Potable Water Boards--has been strengthened. With these measures, there has
been a marked improvement in the performance of potable water systems.
Bank Experience in Other Rural Projects
53.       As indicated in Part II, agriculture and rural development projects
have accounted for nearly half of Bank lending to Mexico. In addition to
the previously cited experience under PIDER, experience under other projects
has been applied in the design and preparation of PIDER III. This experience
has benefitted primarily the productive support components for agricultural
and livestock development. Operations Evaluation reports on several irrigation
projects have emphasized the importance of adequate extension services in
achieving farm development; experience under the Bajo Rio Bravo Irrigation
(Ln. 1111-ME), Papaloapan Rural Development (Ln. 1053-ME), and Tropical
Agricultural Development (Ln. 1553-ME) projects has helped improve the
national extension system. These improvements, and others being instituted
in the Rainfed Agricultural Development Project (Ln. 1945-ME) would be
extended to the proposed project. The findings of the Project Performance
Audit Report on the Fourth Livestock and Agricultural Development Project
(SecM9-522 dated July 3, 1979) have influenced the design of credit components
of subsequent projects, including PIDER III.



- 16 -
The first integrated rural development project financed by the
Bank in Mexico was the Papaloapan Rural Development Project, (Loan 1053-ME
Gi November 15, 1974). This project has encountered a number of management
and financial difficulties. Actions have been taken to strengthen the execu-
ting agency, and the Government is preparing a proposal to reduce the scope
of the project. US$12 million of the US$50 million loan has, therefore, been
cancelled. Many of the problems encountered by the Papaloapan project centered
on the difficulty of executing a comprehensive, multi-sectoral rural development
project through a line agency, in this case the Secretariat of Agriculture and
Water Resources. The sharp focus of the lead agency has enabled agricultural
development to proceed rapidly, surpassing project objectives. However, some
support infrastructure and most social infrastructure components have not been
implemented on schedule. PIDER is not expected to face similar problems
because it has a strong and functioning coordination mechanism and clear
division of responsibilities among the participating agencies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
55.       A report, entitled "Rural Development Project--PIDER III" No.
3231-ME, dated June 30, 1981 is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C. from June 1 to
June 12, 1981. The Mexican negotiating team included Mr. Arturo Ortiz of
NAFINSA and Mr. Marco Antonio Morelos Chon of SPP.
Project Description
56.       The project consists of directly productive, productive support and
social infrastructure components designed to raise the income and improve the
standard of living of some 250 thousand poor rural families in 17 selected
micro-regions in the states of Guerrero, Sinaloa, Yucatan, and Zacatecas
(map IBRD 15264). Within the four states, the micro-regions have been selected
on the basis of:
(a) productive potential, but lack of infrastructure to exploit
this potential;
(b) a high proportion of economically active population with total
net annual family income less than 500 times the regional
minimum daily rural wage; 1/ and
(c) capability of the state-level staff for programming
coordinating, and executing multi-year investment programs.
1/   This level includes about half of the rural population.



- 17 -
57.       Project preparation was coordinated by SPP.  Beneficiaries and
local representatives of government agencies played an important role in
establishing village and micro-region plans; the final planning document was
the responsibility of the SPP state planning office which worked closely with
beneficiaries, micro-regional staff and other line agencies. The micro-regions
included in the proposed project are the first prepared under this highly
decentralized system, hence the Bank has worked closely with SPP to establish
the new methodology for micro-region planning and to apply it in two micro-
regions of each of the four states as a pilot exercise. The lessons of the
pilot exercise were then applied to re-program the original eight micro-regions
which were subsequently appraised by the Bank and form the basis for this
report. The remaining nine micro-regions to be partially financed by the
proposed loan are now being planned according to the revised methodology and
will be submitted to the Bank for appraisal. It would be a condition of
disbursement that each micro-region had been prepared according to the agreed
format and had been appraised in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (Schedule 1,
Para 3(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       Previous Bank loans financed 30 micro-regions in 19 states
(PIDER I) and 20 micro-regions in 15 states (PIDER II). Because of the
decentralization of PIDER planning, programming, and execution, the proposed
project is concentrated in four states where the revised methodology has been
proven. The selected micro-regions do not overlap with those supported under
PIDER II. However, seven of the proposed 17 micro-regions were supported
under PIDER I. In those cases, PIDER III would be extending or consolidating,
rather than duplicating, the achievements of the previous project.
59.       About 61 percent of the project funds would be channeled into
productive investments in livestock, irrigation, rural industries, forestry,
crop development (annual crops, fruit, coffee, and coconut), fisheries, soil
and water conservation, and associated farm development credit; 26 percent
to productive support investment for the development of feeder roads, market
facilities, extension services, electrification, farmer organization, a pilot
program to develop productive projects benefitting women, feasibility studies
for productive investments, and baseline studies; and 10 percent to investment
in social infrastructure, such as construction of primary education and
drinking water facilities, materials for self-help projects on a local initia-
tive basis, and a pilot nutrition program. The remaining 3 percent would
be used for management and monitoring and evaluation of the project. The
estimated distribution of project investments is based on plans completed for
eight micro-regions. The plans for the remaining nine micro-regions are in
an advanced stage of preparation, and the distribution of planned investments
is expected to follow the broad outlines of the other eight micro-regions.
Annual budgets are based on feasibility studies for investments; the annual
budget follows, but is not constrained by, the multi-year plan. Therefore,
this investment balance is indicative rather than precise and fixed.
Detailed Description
60.       PIDER III, on the whole, finances the same types of activities as
did PIDER I and II. However, two new components have been added (Productive
Programs for Women and Nutrition) and two important on-going components
(Livestock and Agricultural Development) have been significantly strengthened.



- 18 -
61.       Productive Programs for Women.  The on-going PIDER program has
financed a limited number of programs providing employment or income-generating
opportunities for women. The most important are the SARH home extension
service, which helps women to raise small animals and improve home gardens.
Some of the additional production is sold on the market, although most is used
to improve the family's nutrition. Additional cottage industry type invest-
ments, such as small shops for the making of clothing or handicrafts, have
benefitted rural women. However, these efforts have been small in comparison
to the lack of remunerative employment opportunities for women in the rural
areas. Therefore, the proposed project would include a pilot program of:
(a) Studies to identify: (i) the types of productive projects currently
operating in Mexico that have proven most successful in providing
earning opportunities for women; and (ii) existing local resources
(human, financial, and physical) that would provide potential for
such projects;
(b) Training for women, communities, and staff of Government agencies
to promote acceptance of greater numbers of women in productive
activities; and
(c) Training and technical assistance for specific productive projects
to be financed under PIDER III. This would include assistance in
setting up effective cooperatives and marketing organizations as
well as training in technical skills.
The program would be executed by a number of institutions, including SARH,
the National Indigenous Institute, the Integrated Family Development Program,
and various other federal and state agencies.
62.       Nutrition Program.  A pilot nutrition program would be implemented
in selected communities in Zacatecas, Guerrero, and Yucatan where problems of
malnutrition are most pressing.  The focus of the program is to ensure that
the food surplus generated by PIDER is directed to improving the nutritional
intake of malnourished rural families. Under this component, funding would be
provided for:
(a) supplementary home food production--home gardens and small animal
raising;
(b)  installation of rural stores to increase access to food staples at
reasonable prices;
(c) education of beneficiaries on proper nutritional balance, and
possibilities for increased nutritional efficiency in purchase,
preparation, and consumption of foods;
(d) establishment of a nutritional surveillance system to: identify
the seriously malnourished; prevent serious malnutrition by early
referral to the health system of those clearly at risk; monitor
seasonal fluctuations in food production in order to anticipate food
shortages and identify areas where assistance will be required; and
(e) evaluation of the impact of the PIDER program on the nutritional
status of beneficiaries.



- 19 -
The program would be implemented as an integral part of PIDER activities and
would be subject to the decentralized planning process now in use. Primary
responsibility for program execution would be with: SARH for supplementary
production and nutrition education (through the home extension worker program);
National Company for Popular Subsistance (CONASUPO) for rural markets; the
Mexican Social Security Institute for the nutritional surveillance system; the
Secretariat of Public Health and Assistance for health and nutrition education;
and SPP for monitoring and evaluation.
63.       Livestock Development.  As discussed in para 49, many livestock
investments financed under PIDER I and II faced significant organizational and
technical difficulties. The causes of these difficulties, as well as factors
that have made other projects successful, have been under study and the design
of subsequent investments usually reflects the experience.  Under PIDER III,
the Government would devise formal criteria, acceptable to the Bank, for the
design of livestock investments, including such matters as organizational
structure, rights and obligations of participants, management, evaluation
methodology and monitoring indicators (Section 3.08 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement). Only those livestock investments meeting the agreed criteria
would be financed under the Project (Schedule 1, para 3(e) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Agricultural Development
64.       Agricultural development programs funded by PIDER are the responsi-
bility of SARH. Under terms of a master coordinating agreement between SARR
and SPP, agricultural investments proposed under PIDER would be reviewed and
approved by the executive committee of the appropriate rainfed agricultural
district (DT). Because the PIDER micro-region coordinator is a member of this
committee, local-level coordination between PIDER and SARH would be greatly
strengthened. At the same time, the technicians of the rainfed district
would be in a position to implement the proposed strengthening of a number of
programs, such as the new criteria for design and execution of livestock
sub-projects (para. 63) could be effectively supervised by DT staff.
65.       Experience under previous projects has shown that agricultural
development efforts sometimes have been poorly integrated with credit programs.
Under the proposed project SARH, PIDER, and credit officials would be members
of the DT executive committee, which would ensure closer communication and
better coordination of programs. Credit support of small irrigation works
has generally been weakest; therefore, SARH would obtain commitment from a
bank to lend to the proposed beneficiaries of small irrigation schemes prior
to starting physical works (Section 3.06 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
66.       Staff Development.  A modest component for staff development (seminars
and short-term training) would benefit staff directly involved in the project;
presentation of a detailed training program acceptable to the Bank would be a
condition of disbursement for that component (Schedule 1, Para 3(h) of the
draft Loan Agreement).



- 20 -
Organization and Management
t7.       The project would follow the general organizational and management
structure described in paragraphs 40-45. General PIDER programming policy is
developed by the Subsecretariat of Programming in SPP. SPP works closely with
the various implementing agencies to ensure that their programs address the
development goals agreed upon for each micro-region. Responsibility remains
for the implementing agency to ensure technical soundness and economic provi-
sion of their services under PIDER. Coordination of agencies' work programs
with PIDER planning and execution has been improving steadily. Master coordin-
ating agreements signed between agencies at the federal level have helped to
define the responsibilities of the various agencies for different components
of PIDER.
68.       At the local level, the COPLADES (para 42) have served to inte-
grate the field staff of the agencies into effective teams. SPP is improving
the effectiveness of its micro-regional staff by establishing a Micro-regional
Rural Development Office (MRDO) in each micro-region. It would be a condition
of loan effectiveness that, in the eight micro-regions already appraised,
MRDOs had been staffed (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
69.       One of the innovations of Mexico's rural development efforts is the
use of a separate, parallel evaluation agency, the Center for Rural Development
Research (CIDER). CIDER has evaluated a number of PIDER investments on a
sample basis and has worked closely with PIDER to ensure the findings are
incorporated into PIDER's activities. However, PIDER has not had a strong
internal monitoring or evaluation unit. Under the project, and in collabora-
tion with the participating agencies, CIDER, and consultants, SPP would
establish within PIDER a system for: (a) reporting physical progress of
project activities; (b) evaluating the impact of these activities on an
ongoing basis; and (c) identifying shortcomings in performance in a timely
manner.
70.       At the national level, the general directorate of operations in SPP
would establish a group to review and compare PIDER's micro-regional evalua-
tions and serve as technical support to the state and micro-regional units.
This unit would also identify studies designed to investigate and suggest
alternative solutions to specific project-related problems or issues arising
during project execution. At the state level, the SPP Monitoring and Evaluation
Office would analyze the information collected at the micro-regional level and
carry out impact evaluation of those PIDER activities which would help to
readjust the sub-projects or find alternative strategies or programs for the
micro-regions. At the micro-regional level, a monitoring and evaluation team
would be established in each MRDO. It would be a condition of loan effective-
ness that a plan, acceptable to the Bank, had been prepared for the monitoring
and evaluation units at the Federal, State, and micro-regional levels (Section
6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
71.       To further strengthen monitoring and evaluation, the project would
include socio-economic studies at the community level to: (a) provide baseline
data against which to measure the impact of PIDER-supported activities;



- 21 -
(b) promote pilot testing of alternative sectoral strategies in such areas as
livestock, water supply, and marketing; (c) identify requirements for special-
ized technical assistance or training for new or existing sub-projects;
(d) assess the development potential and socio-economic structure of communities
within the micro-regions; and (e) assist in the identification of productive
sub-projects. Presentation of a specific work program, acceptable to the
Bank, for the feasibility and socio-economic studies component of the project
would be a condition of disbursement for the component (Schedule 1, para 3(g)
of the draft Loan Agreement). Twelve man-months of consultant services would
also be provided to assist in program development. The costs of consultant
services have been estimated at US$8,500 per man-month for fees and US$1,200
per man-month for travel and subsistence.
Project Cost and Finance
72.       Project costs are detailed in the Loan and Project Summary and in
Annex IV. Total costs are estimated to be US$506 million of which US$98
million, or 19 percent, are are foreign costs. The proposed US$175 million
loan would finance about 35 percent of project cost, equivalent to the foreign
exchange cost and 19 percent of local costs. Bank financing of some local
costs is recommended because of the project's evident high priority and the
low proportion of foreign costs. The Government would finance $268 million of
project cost (53 percent) and beneficiaries would contribute about $63 million,
or 12 percent of project costs.  The Government and Bank shares include US$54
million (11 percent of project cost) in development credit which beneficiaries
would repay with interest. To ensure that the Government investment benefits
as many families as possible, Government investment per beneficiary family
would be limited to $10,000 for livestock development or soil and water
conservation subprojects and US$15,000 for small-scale irrigation subprojects.
Cost Recovery
73.       For all productive investments benefitting individuals or groups of
farmers, the Government policy is to require a contribution of the beneficia-
ries to the capital costs as well as requiring beneficiaries to pay the full
costs of operation and maintenance. The level of contribution to capital costs
depends on the nature of the investment and the beneficiaries' capacity to
pay; beneficiaries' contributions are agreed in writing before construction
of works begins (Section 3.05 of draft Guarantee Agreement).
Disbursement
74.       The loan would be disbursed over a four-year period.  Retroactive
finance of US$5 million would be provided for expenditures made after January 1,
1981 in the eight appraised micro-regions (Schedule 1, Para 3(a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). Retroactive finance is proposed to avoid delays and to
maintain an even pace of project execution. It would allow works in the eight
micro-regions that have been appraised to be done during the dry season of
1981 and would enable the pace of micro-region development activities, estab-
lished under PIDER I, to be maintained.



- 22 -
Credit
75.       Short-term credit for production or working capital would be financed
by Mexico's well-established public and private banking system and would not be
reimbursed out of the proposed loan. Medium-term credit for on-farm development
and agroindustries would be financed by the proposed loan through the Agri-
cultural Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico (FIRA) and the Trust Fund for
Credit in Irrigated Areas (FICAR). These agencies have participated in other
Bank projects and would rediscount subloans made by private and public banks
to beneficiaries of directly productive investments under the Project.
Terms and conditions of subloans would be identical to those for other agricul-
tural credit projects.
76.       These loans now have repayment periods ranging from 2 to 15 years,
including grace periods of up to 3 years, and interest rates range from 14.0
to 21.5 percent per annum. These rates are now under review with Mexican
authorities; agreement with the Bank on the revised interest rates would be
a condition of disbursement for this component (Schedule 1, para. 3(f) of the
draft Loan Agreement). Interest rates would be adjusted annually in accordance
with changes in the 12-month average cost of borrowed resources to Mexican
banks (draft Project Agreements with the Banco de Mexico, S.A. and the Banco
Nacional de Credito Rural, S.A., Schedule 1, Para C).
Procurement
77.       Civil works would be scattered over the project area, and individual
contracts would not be large enough to attract foreign bidders. Mexico's
construction industry is experienced and capable of executing works at costs
competitive with international levels. Contracts for construction of civil
works (totalling about US$200 million) would be procured following local
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. In most cases, these contracts would be
subject to local competitive bidding. Force account would be used in some
cases where the Government agencies have an established and demonstrated
capability, particularly construction of feeder roads and drilling of wells.
In cases where bidder interest is low because of the isolation and small size
of project works, negotiated contracts would be allowed. Experience under
previous projects has shown these practices to be reasonable and efficient.
78.       Materials and equipment (totalling about US$115 million) would be
purchased by several agencies in small quantities. Where feasible, contracts
for the purchase of materials and equipment shall be grouped and procured
through international competitive bidding. Contracts for less than US$350,000
equivalent could be procured through local competitive bidding or local
shopping in accordance with the Government's ordinary procedures which are
satisfactory to the Bank. There are a sufficient number of suppliers of such
goods representing both domestic and international manufacturers to ensure
adequate choice and competitive prices. Because of the competitiveness of
local suppliers and the strong representation of international manufacturers
through Mexican firms, it is expected that most contracts would be awarded to
Mexican bidders. Equipment for on-farm development, financed through loans to
farmers, would be purchased directly by the farmers from local suppliers,
considering local availability of spare parts and service. Procurement
arrangements are set forth in Schedule 2 to the draft Guarantee Agreement.



- 23 -
Economic Evaluation and Project Impact
79.       Analysis of the expected impact of the project is based on the
investment plans completed for eight micro-regions for which plans have been
appraised. The investment pattern in the nine remaining project micro-regions
is assumed to parallel that of the first eight regions. As each micro-region's
medium-term plan is reviewed annually and adjusted as circumstances warrant,
the final distribution of project investments and impact cannot be precisely
stated. The following analysis should be interpreted as an indication of the
expected impact of the project, based on the best available estimates.
80.        The estimated average economic rate of return for the project as a
whole is 27 percent; the rate of return for investment in individual micro-
regions would range from 14 to 44 percent. The variation is caused by the
large differences in ecology and productive potential between the various
microregions as reflected in the cropping pattern and farm yields. The rates
of return have been calculated on the basis of investments in agriculture and
livestock equivalent to 62 percent of total investment, for which benefits are
quantifiable. Investment costs along with costs of extension, farmer organiza-
tion, and the production support costs needed to achieve project benefits were
included in the calculation. The costs of social investment have not been
charged against the project, nor have the benefits from improved health,
education, and community development been credited to it. Labor was shadow
priced at half of the official minimum wage in Guerrero and Yucatan where
unemployment is high. In Sinaloa and Zacatecas, where alternative sources
of employment exist and compete for workers, labor was priced at the minimum
wage.
81.       Sensitivity analysis shows that the rate of return of the project
would remain above 12 percent if overall benefits decrease by 30 percent or
if overall costs increase by 40 percent. A two-and-one-half-year delay in
project benefits would result in a rate of return of 12 percent. However,
some micro-regions are more sensitive than others; in those micro-regions, the
rate of return would fall to 12 percent with a 10 percent increase in cost or
reduction in benefits, or with a six-month lag in achieving project benefits.
82.       The project is expected to benefit about 250,000 poor families.
Some 46 thousand families would benefit from directly productive investments;
their average incomes are expected to increase from US$450 to US$2,500 as
a result of the project. About 500,000 man-days of incremental permanent
employment is expected to result from the project. At full development in
13 years, the project is expected to result in incremental production of
128,000 metric tons (t) of basic crops, oil crops and feedgrains; almost
17,000 t of cacao, coconut, and coffee; 116,000 t of citrus; 21,000 t of
vegetables; 56,000 t of fruits; some 15,000 t of cashew; 8,360 t of livestock;
16 million liters milk; and 902 t of honey. Most of this production would be
consumed domestically.
Risks
83.       The main risks associated with the project would be institutional
and climatic. The major institutional problems would be to ensure effective
coordination between the various line agencies and to effectively strengthen



- 24 -
execution of those components of the project where previous performance has
been marginal. The institutional risk is acceptable because: (a) the states
included in PIDER III were chosen for their experience with such projects, and
actions are already being taken with the decentralization of PIDER to the state
level have redefined responsibilities and strengthened coordination where it
was weak in the past; (b) agencies have already played a key role in planning
overall investments as well as sub-projects, and agency personnel show a
higher level of commitment than in the past; and (c) SARH programs in the
rainfed districts have been strengthened and better address the needs of
PIDER beneficiaries. The most serious climatic risk would result from
drought, and the emphasis on better conservation and farming practices built
into project design is intended to reduce this risk.
Environmental Impact
84.       The project is expected to have beneficial effects on the environment.
Soil and water conservation and forestry programs would reduce erosion losses
in the Project micro-regions. The improved farm practices promoted under
the project would ensure development appropriate to the capacity of the land
and safe application of agro-chemicals.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
85.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Financiera,
S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Banco de Mexico, S.A.,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Banco Nacional de Credito
Rural, S.A., and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
86.       The following features of the draft Loan, Guarantee, and Project
Agreements referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III are
of special interest:
(a) Additional conditions of loan effectiveness include:
(i) that micro-regional rural development had been staffed in each
of the eight micro-regions that have been appraised; and
(ii) that a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, had been issued for
monitoring and evaluation units at the federal, state, and
micro-regional levels.
(b) Additional conditions of disbursement include:
(i) Disbursements would be made against expenditures in a
micro-region only if the micro-region's plan had been
prepared in accordance with the agreed format and appraised
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;



- 25 -
(ii)  Disbursement would be made against expenditures on livestock
investments only when those investments were made in
accordance with criteria agreed to by the Guarantor and
the Bank; and
(iii)  The Bank would disburse only against sub-loans made at
interest rates agreed between the Guarantor and the Bank.
87.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
88.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 30, 1981



- 26 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. XM.)                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            1972.5                                 MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      977.2               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIUBEAN            EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   400.0       750.0    1640.0                 1616.2                    2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      769.2       1141.0    1672.7                 1324.1                    2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 36369.0       50313.0   65509.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 50.8          59.0       65.9                  64.2                      53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        108.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          188.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        18.4         25.5      33.2                  34.3                       80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      36.0         52.0      65.1                  94.5                      133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.6         46.5      45.3                  40.7                       30.1
15-64 YRS.                          51.0         50.0      51.2                  55.3                      61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.4          3.5       3.5                   4.0                        8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.1          3.2       2.9                   2.4                        1.5
URBAN                               4.9          4.8       4.2                    3.7                       3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.0         42.3       36.0                  31.4                      22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       12.0         9.0        7.3                   8.4                       9.1
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4          3.2        2.6                   2.3                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        25.1     842.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..      40.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           97.0        100.0     101.0                 108.3                      119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   110.0        112.0     114.0                 107.6                      125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           65.0         66.0      66.0                  65.8                       92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        27.0         27.0      27.0                  34.0                      39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       13.0         8.8        5.7                   7.6                       3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    58.3          62.4      66.0                  64.1                       68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            78.0         74.0       60.0                  70.9                      25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              23.5         54.0      62.0                  65.7
URBAN                                ..         71.0      70.0                  79.7
RURAL                                 ..        29.0      49.0                  43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..                 59.9
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                 75.7
RURAL                                 ..        13.0       14.0                 30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           1798.0       1480.6    1815.0                1728.2                      973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       1612.2    1398.0                1288.2                      896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             577.6        828.1     851.0                 471.2                     262.3
URBAN                                ..       1151.2     758.0                 558.0                      191.8
RURAL                                *-       1350.9    1077.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..         ..                   ..                       18.2
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.4          5.7
URBAN                               5.7          5.7
RURAL                               5.2          5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.9          2.5
URBAN                               2.6          2.2
RURAL                               3.4          3.2         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..        58.9         ..
URBAN                                 ..        80.7         ..
RURAL                                ..         27.8         ..



- 27 -                                                       ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                  Page  2  of  5
MEYICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 80.0       104.0      116.0                101.7                    105.9
MALE                  82.0       107.0     119.0                 103.0                    109.6
FEMALE                77.0       102.0     114.0                 101.5                    102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 11.0        22.0       39.0                 35.3                     66.3
MALE                  14.0        27.0      42.0                  34.9                     73.2
FEMALE                8.0         17.0      36.0                  35.6                     59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 24.0           27.0       9.0                  30.1                     28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            44.0        46.0       41.0                  29.6                     26.8
SECONDARY                          13.0        14.0       17.0                  15.7                    23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        65.0         74.2      82.4                  80.0                     75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         14.0        24.5       42.4                 42.6                     83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         90.7       27B.4      306.0                215.0                    181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         17.9        59.5       88.7                 89.0                    131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  79.0           ..      66.6                  62.8                   123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 10.0          5.0        4.2                   3.2                      5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10990.9      14488.8   18965.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   15.2        17.4       19.3                 22.6                     32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              55.1        45.0       36.8                 35.0                     34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.5        23.0       25.7                 23.2                     28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.2         28.8      29.0                  31.8                     42.3
MALE                                 51.1         47.4      46.5                  49.0                     56.5
FEMALE                                9.2         10.1      11.2                  14.6                    28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6          1.7       1.7                   1.4                      0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.1/c       60.7       57.7
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.47E        3.3        2.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.8T         9.9        9.9
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     270.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     216.0                187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     471.0                513.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     471.0                362.2                    385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1963.
May, 1981



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITTIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
fotes:  Although the dte ere deae fromsute  generally judged the sca   -thoritativa and -elable, it should also be notd that they may not ha  nte-
naiell -oparable bec.u.. of the lack of  tneedardised d.fini,ieos end --ecpte need by difft.fest teuntetia ie collectieg  the dens.  The date are. .....
themes, .. usfulIe describe ordain  of  agnitude, indicate treda. and chorec-erta  certau aejor differences. hev ges  countrie..
Theenfrene gtap  ar  (I  the  see country groop of the  -bJ-eo  coutry and (21 sutry group slob s--eh., bigher avrgIicm   ta hecuty grouP
of the auhjeot country (eacept fur "Cepital Surplus lII l p-rters  Sroup eheosMidl  un  Seth Africa and tiddle tEat.a.         o    bcueofsrne
se -ululeffiintee:)..I  t~he refgscents group dun  the snrgee are popuition .eighted eritheetic neafee each Indic-c ored ah.- only obe.
ajoriy o,f the countries In egou  has dens for that iodlot-r.  Ooc. the oover.ge of countries a-on  the  oddicatr  do-                   doo  tbe  vel-lbili1ty of dens
end is not unifom, caution   ist hr soencised in relating avetges of et  indicator no e--h-n   Thesuvrgoaeo  yefuI  coprIng the  -se of
IIe Ondl-uo  an s ties emeu  the c--ocya.d refernc  groups.
L,AM AREA ftcb.ue.ed sq.e.)                                                                       ypltcpeOapalrd- ctul, rhe, -udrro                              I  .oute   (toa-
toal- 1Tta  surf oe er   comprIinig land area end island wtes.uron  adru)didebyIIttroetntibro   optlhd
Agricultural -E stMt  of egicoliura1 are  used temporarily or pereanetly                          .vaflahle  In publIc and priveegaea  sd npecIie:ll   h,epintlandro
for crops. petoe, eket end k h.cbe  gerdet  or no lie tailo; l970 dute.                         bhtlib aioet rra-.  Soa1 cIn  r    tblIahm.t._pe_ocetly staffed
by atleant..t. physici-r  tanbllshoane   pr-oldivy priocipelly  -ust-
GtiPPEg CAyTA (19.) - tO"  pen cap ita ea-tZe  ec cu...ot sarke  prcta, -a-                         d.1 cor. are cot included.  eunu  hospitals, h.nvr.c.             d  ban
culaed b  ses coverion sethed as World hak Atlc (19 71-7  basie); OhI,                       end medical cec-r  cot parn-e-yI tufedbyapacian  (hot by a
1970, end l979 date,                                                                              andicaI  -sisa-, nuse  adaife, etc.)  hich offer in-patient  ccse-
def    ,,n poide a  lhiied range of oedica1 facilities.  Foe  Ltatis-
ENERfGY CONSUMPTION PER CAITA -    uAl- cns. ptit  f   -nrcial snry (elticel putycee.n. rbet hospitals include WHO. pnincipe1lgeteceIl hospitals,
andlignite, petrleu, -tarlgeenhdo-  .uc.s.r and gor .a elc-td rural, bonyltl  loca  or rura  h-spitls.1  and meIdicl  an1 d materity
tricity) In kilegrem  of ceal eqoivalet pet capita; 1960, 1970, aed 1979                          c..tters.  Specialited hosyilvlo ace Incldedolyudertoa.
date.                                                                                           Admiaslone Fr  HcnctalBed - T-co  nu-ber of  daiaaio.. to or discharges
fron hoapltols divided by She number of bed
POPULATION ANDf VITAL STATISTICS
Total PopuletOco, hId-Tear fthou...tds) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, cod 1979                 HOLfSING
data.                                                                                        Ah.eruge So I f I  otsbod  rccoo  -soshold) - tonal, urban   ,ad rural-
Urban Prultin Icrcee  of t-nel  -  atlo of urben to tona  populotioc;                             A house hold crootot  of   grop of ilodioidul  hwb   shar  loving q"It"r,
different definitions of orban aresa as pffect ocapurabiltey of dnt                             end thee.   ao    l.A bo-de- or lodger nay or may ntb nluded It
aog cnties; 19101  1971, and 1979 data,th  heueebci  for_' 'ttiuclcu   -p--oat
PonulatOon Projections                                                 ~~~Av-r..eon-he  of -e-o- cor_cooc-_rul   rban  and rena  - Av-rege  u
Poultosf  Yee 2000 - Current population projections ne  base.d on 1901                    her of Pe rsons cer roc  iv all urbo,  and  cu       I ccpied.    -toeiien
toteS  populaion by age end ass and ther mrtliey ad fsrnility cetea.                          deIliogs, rep-cti-ely.  Dwell ig. eucludd          -P.rm.e.  strutuesad
Pr.Jentionpe etr  for mantelityrae  copia- ofthre   eeaec- Iu...cupisd prs
iog life euPsen-  atI birth icesn   ihcutysPer.cPita inc.eAces.n                                          iecico   (tercet of doel1LIcoa  - rtona, urban, en ua  -
level, and femaleclift sapernaocy seblleing an 77.5 yas   The paro-                          Cooventienu.l dnlcg.      wthelctictyInlvgquressprtasnge
asters foe fertiity Irte   e  hav  threY       ees  aeig  eln   in  or.f tona, urbue, end r...el dwellicna  -epeci-oly.
fer tility accoding to incom   I.vsI and past f_mt  plannIngPonttmac
Each cu...try Is the ..s...gned one of thse tine cobitaticon of mentaity                 EDUCATIONl
and~ fnti'licy trsoda for projection pueposee.                                               Adluened EInnolse- Ratios
Snn_ar Feelp        int o   stationa.ry pplainthere In no growh snePriayeho..ttl   aeud feal. -lro... totu   mal  an.d femal
the birthIrt   seult   he death rate, and alto  the age anrutr  re-                             eso Ie       f all uge  at the primay  -etel aspercetage  Of respective
mains conetant.  This Is achieved otly utter fe-ility rates decline to                          Pr,mry etbool-egeP populaicon.; no-aly i-oldee ehildre  aged 6-01
the relceet  ee  of u.it ne  reproduction rune  hbe  each gnsanYear  hot adja-d for diffiere.t leegths of primary ed_atios; fun
ofwmnePls  itslffsnatly.  The stationey poplaio  steus                                      Jato   it          .tivnsl  d..ccnice enrollmentImay e.Cend 100 percent
et=astd'.on`the hbst  ofI the projected charcersic    fb-ppti              onalneIoepupils are  elo  ocohvtedfbiu   cho  es
inteyeer 2000, cod the rant of d ins of f-rtil Icy oats to replee-...our scoo  -  oa, malean  femae    Cmpte  asaov;seodary
aest level.                                                            edo~~tetiosuito    lesIot  ar   f approved primary inateno;
tear stationery peeplattonis reabsIhd - The ye-  when o.titonry population                        Prvdeagnrl  vntca, or ,eaher traleng  last-eios.. f or popik
Per em. he. -  id-year Ppoplation per square klllo.ne tI(101 hat.trts) cf                        V..toainl n_    iset(percet If secndsrI  - V.catioliatltnto..
tonl  nn; 19.1970 and 1979 det.                                                                 inclde teohoic-,inutra,   enohr"rgam                    Jh  operate il,dped-
Per soh.  asiclonl ad - Computd as above for  gric-Itu-1 land                                     setly or ca deperta-ie o.f scnay inaintin.
euly; 1961, 1970 and 1978 data.                                                               Punil-     hnc    raio - Primet. aed  -eodery - TonalI students earold  is
Pouet     M a  trucno  feenceati -Childre  (D-14 peace). enrki.e-aga (15-                    PrImr  and aecondry level  dfvided by numbers of neachea Is he
64 pear), ..d rond(0   er  an-d over) as percetages of mId-pear pepn-                             correspondingleve.a..
lein   90,I,sd197  daa,Mlt literacy ra te(pret- ile edalte  (able to read and write)
-ousio   teh hate (oerceno) -r-otl - Annua  goewch rect  of tone1 sdd-                       Asa.percentge of ntelautpopeIutioo aged 11 pears and ever.
year populnloes foe 1950hi,l!hO-, end 1970-79.
FepulstlonOr,    b  at   pecet.-uban _A-..euI grwcb renes ef orban popn-                      COgSUMPFTION
lationefoe1910-100  1960-70, And1970-79.                                                     Pelsenger G,lane    - feth-ussdhcpuain - Pe-eger crer comprise est I
Crude fith hate_(pan thouseed) -Ade-ua  live births Per th..u..d of afd-y-                        creutieg lees that eighpesn;ecus amuacs  hmeeed
populuetue; 1900, 1970, and 1979 dc._                                                           sil itery vehilee,.
Crde math fate leer thousan.d)- Annua Ideaths per thooeaeds of mid-peerRadio escivene leer thonsaod eoo'ulacIce) - All types of reni-ra far radio
ppu,lation;1990, 19701, eM  1979 data,                                                          bredcse   ogeea  pbi  prccudo  poplait; encldeeem
bar eoma  rpodctv  period it she nupeniecee praet ege-epeifIc gtses                                       It effec; data for recet peaa may no  be coparble ain
....p aie;uealy fivepe  evraseedieg In 1900, 19 70, aed 1979.                           most c...atnies abolieed lice...ing.
FmlPlt-Aces tnrs. hea  (thuI         dl-Ana   ubro  eceere                            TV R-ni-er  inerethousued eepulation)   TV recivers for bredoat tnt
ef blreb- tnnru  devices undet ...pit", of necien... I.Ily planing program,                     general publi   e  huod ppltc;eoueulras   VreIe
Famly pi..eica - Users Coerce o.  f marriedZeem ) - Perc...tase of maried                         Innonies andTI er   hnrgernico   Vsn   s   oefec.
me_s  of child-heanleg age (15-44 y-ae)whus  birth- -otrl d-ciena no                          N_PeweseI Ciccu"anine  leth ..easedfrc          n)- Sh-w  the  -verag  tie-
all maried w__e  In sam  age grou.P                                                             culstioc of "daily generaIl lor-oe  newspape", defined A. aperiedical
publicacice deo-cd primarily cc recrding genra.          nws   It is c..aidered
FOOD AND fNUTRITIONf                                                                                to be "daily" if It appears an leean tou tIme            ekI
Ogden of Fend Productico ten Capita (1969-71-100) - Iode  of pen cepite annal.lue..cn   Atted..c. ten Capita ce                               a-f      d Is ihe number ad
1eduti    f allfoo  t      iodtiee,  Production snaludee seed and fend and                  tichkt  sol IduIg  heper, including admissions to dries-is cIfsas
,Iso  caedrperhes   Coditieacovo-  prisay goods (s g. sngsras                                   ad mobile units.
instend of eugr)  hfith ens eldible sod cotait          st  (e.gE. coffee end
te   re eafudedi.  Aggregt   rduclo  of eac h coet ry is base d on                       LABOf FOREt
-t 1-nu  average producerprice weights; 1961-60, 1970 , and l97S deta.                        Ttetl Isbe  Forc  (theu..ande) - Ecnemlc.lip active parsoes, iulndimg
Per anin  suely  f eaonle Cercet of  rnieec)-Computd from                             are  fressd unemployed buc secluding  hoswvs tdns   tc..
ensrgyeqctoaeun ofnet fed supnlas evilable. ..  ..u..r tpence pita                -aveing populationo  all ages.   lfot eio v-ri..I.. reteisa ens
peIay      rilebemple   epiedaei   rdciv   imper   les                                       no  comparable; 1901,flOP7  and 19719 dat.i~~
neperte, aed chaugee in sooth   Set aupplia... euclde anial fend, aseda,                  FP.-Ie (osreeni - Feml   ee   oc  a   eceaeo  ttllhrfrs
qnaeitia ned iftod procemeing, and losses in disteibtnion.  falqeire-                 Aanieulture (tercnt) - LborfreInfrig  ferese, butingan
emte wer  etmed by PAP had on phyeiologi-Il needs  o  nI -ma   cti-                          fishing ca per-etags of cocal labor forts; 19600  1970 and l9P  data,
nip sad helth c..ne,ideie  -aireemen.talcep-etr,   bd e-               be  aeIndusry fprcent) - Labor force In ainiog, co-tr-cII.c,                            .f sngcoieg
end se  distr ibution of popnlstie, and alloing 10prcent for -s  at1                          and  eetrct,  ue  ed gases. percetage of nta.  Ilabo  ftone; 1960.
household level1; 1901-iS,.1970, end 197P date.                                               1970 end 1979 dat.-
Per o..ite _arrlp of ertin(rea  eec dy) - Protein cueteot of Pence pins-ttcta oht   rret  - tnal,  ae an                                            Teml  - Fertilepitte  er
net supl  of fend per dy.  fNst supply of fd Is defiedas abov.-   Re-                         activity  ae   e   optda   oa,wae   n   eaelbtfreu
quiremeet  fur all cotnie established hy USDRA provide f. en .li-n                            paros.oIEsge  of total, male and femal  population of all age  n-p-ctie-ly;
allowanc  of 60 gnom  of toalprtIn per dy and2.0 fram   at isSa  and                          1900, 1970, and 1979 data.  These are.buse  oni 00,I0's .partcilptias reese
puls  protein, of which 10 greas s.hou'ldphe aimllpeev   Thes  aseed-                        refleotiag  ag-e   tuen f the  poputeco   ad   Se time tred,
endear  lower that these of 75 gr-ma  ftte  prtined 23 gram  of                              few seise   r   rs   eutlnoc
animal  rotela  s as avrage fo  the wid,t.proposed by PAO in the Third          EcnmcOeoec   aic-hseo   oue  o  adt1   s   5ndoe
Wfeeld Peed Surey  I190 1-, 197O us  1977 daa,t   the tetu1 labor force,
farceetarreaimsuply feo  anial sad pclee - Protein supply of tfnd de-
rived from  sn  -lad pulss i  ge prdy1961-5  1910 and 1977.dd-a.                         IKCiSE DISTRIBUTIOf
ChildIiaa14  grtality fate ire  thonead) - Annul duanhe per thoumand In                         Perce.c.. o" f Privete  1-oe    (herb  I. c-h end kind) - teceivd by richeet
ag   rop14 yersn  childrea On rhia age gup; f onmatdeveloping coeI pereot, richest 20 pence..c, poorest 20 percent, and peermt 90 peroem
nrcee dues drived from  life tehlom; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data.                                  If hemehelds.
fi   E     t.7           b                                                                    POVRUT TARGET GROUPS
iIlleeoau a   ii   (oc)-Aeaemme   f pear  of life remining                               The Ooleieg estimates are vep  ppIoimnamese  of P-vnty levels
at bith; 1f,1970 end 1979 dae                                                                   Ed  hudh   nerrtdot   eat elcnie
Infst fetalsy  at  iee  thoosau) - Annua deaths of infants un,der .ne peer                Etaimated Abslut  oetyIcm   iev l f                  pertunics -.  ehne end rurl-1
ofaee   housad live bIrts                                                                 Absouepoet   ooslvl  Ia then tcca  lee   eo    hch a alimal
Acc..a no Sate Wate  (percent of peulntol co         bl, .ruo  uad rura  - ,,runitinelly adequate diet pnl eanca  ntfood requite toan  is set
he  of pmeple (renal, urbee, and rena) wt  esnheacs   osf                                       fodb
eater _uppp fiecladetetd   sufc   ut               rutreated but ncusa           td            simated Raleti-e Fv-rry Inc-   Level (US$ retP.          u  -uhe   ndrea
etracasthat from proncte  bo-hois, spriege, and sadtr   sle   shR.lrltv    oet   neslvli   n-hr   faeaeptcp
percemteges of their nestv    auu e.X  an orha  area    pubicIpreenl i-cm o P-the icuntry.   Ibe  level isd derve  free. the rural
foamnI   en staadpetI. lcted non wire than 201 meters from a house map be                       p le.e.Iwith  dueIfstb Oer ly big rroo  of lIv.e d.in ud  area..  h
redreasbeing  inhie reweo-ble ucns  of that house.  Ie rural   .. ares1ttim te oenltio                         t felo     hisolut  -oety Ifncoma  leve   freeee)-ura
ress be aces  nold  mpl  that the housewife or a-ber  of the household                Eand rurld  Percenti.   of1 populatio  (urbany end rua L b'  ar P"helots
a   blp'a ester tends.. ftc      t
Acoee icfaurss Dsposl' i(perndnr of  1pPlulte -fotal, urhi- andrrurald
N,bsr of PeoPle (ttl,uban, and rual  served by  _artim  disonl as 
pecnaeF       f their rePetv    population..      fne.     dipslma          ld
the-collect-     o  disposal,tic.ih or without' treatment, of huma  nert                                                              cotelc and Social Oatst,.ivfi
-> -  c>ener-hrnrecv.nne  o                                                                                Eb srI c11.  n   tt  coco,it Analyote sod  PostesDepactasn
Ian  Ovatel-u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l~~~--.                                                                             Map~~~~~K  1901
P     Pnlcis u Phys1iee   - Population divided by nuber ef pr.o..oinig physi-
NaueisprfrsOn Pseee   Poulato  divide  by nuber of practiolug



-  29  -                                                                                          t  t
Page 4 of3
MEXICO - ECOtOnIC DEVELOFIEnT 8A0A SHEET
Accst                                  tr.tti,sss y         rro ect1o,sE                       Gr-wth Rte.                               As 7 of lOT
1970         1915          1977          1978          1879         1980          196W          1985         1970-75        8975-80 I9   1980-85 11       1970        1979       1985
NATIONAL ACCOU TS                                          Co--lost 1972  Prices. U157 Milli-os
Cross DpmtStio Frod-ct                       36,970.4      48,509.5      50,968.4      54,434.8     58,786.6      63, 214.8     73,655.4      93,835.3          5.6            5.6           8.2           100.3        97.3       90.2
Gsifs Pros Trm-s of Trade                     - 114.1         355.1         316.4         944,7       1,650.1      4,173.5       7,514.1      10,253.0          _      -                     -             - 0.3         2.7        9.8
Gross           1-oo -sic Iccts              36,856.3      48,864.6      51, 284.8    54,978.8      60,436.]      67,388.3      81,169.5    104,088.3           5.8            6.6           8.9           109.9       100.0      10080
I=ports (i-lOtdi.g sfS)                       3,754.4       5,835.6       4,782.2      6,475.3       8,544.0      11,724.3      16,518.0     21,575.5           9.2           15.7         12,5             10.2       14.1        20.7
Exporte 7s  ootccposp7ity)                    3,016.6       4,109.2       4,751.7       6,117.1      7,623.7      109610.2      15,999.      19,795.7          6.4            20.7          12.3             8.2       12.6        19.0
Resource Cop                                    737.8       1,726.4          37.5         359.2        920.8       1,114.1       1,418. 1        779.6         18.4          - 0.3          17.4             2.0         1.5        1.7
Cooso,sptls                                  30 ,405.4     40,064.3     41,911.7      44,457.1      49,551.2      '3,410.7      67,720.2     92.015.2           5.7            6.0          9.0             82.6       80.3        78.8
IDvest=eDot                                   7,168.7      10, 26.7       9,356.8     10,879.9      122,825.      15,089.7      18  867.4    23,852.7          8.0             7.8          9.3             19.5       21.2        22.9
oross  Ssoostlo SiosCgs                       6,430.9       8,697.2       9,308.3     10,521.7      11,994.5      13 975.6      17,449.3     22,073.1           6.5            9.6           8.0            17,4       19.7        21.2
Cross sarlo -al osclsg.                       5,995.3       7,701.7       6,775.1      9,236.4      10,230.7      12,167.2      15,645.2     20,040.9           5.1            9.4          9.7             16.3       88.9        19.3
TRADE IN GO0DS A45  NFS                                      Coersst Price-s 757 Milliso-                                                                                                                             A. % of Total
'itPOXTS, TOTAL                       3,416.9      8,636.9       7,845.1      11,560.9      17511,97     26,733.8      44,506.8      71,176.9         20.4           26.2          21.0           100.0       100.0       100.0
Feed 2-                                           84.6        499.1         475.1         550.2         659.0      1,080.4       1,275.4      2,028.7           -            21.7          14.9              1.2        3.8         2.8
Pstcslssdm      -d.                                1.70       09.           107.         1733          268.1         308.4         366.-3       448.8         50.4            7.1           7.7             1.9         1.6         8.6
0F6rolee.2Dds  ProduCtN406                                  5,845.6       5,328.1      7,500.7      11,717.2      18,3NO 3     30,652 7   73 380.3  30,66,4  3  2.3          2             20 6            85.6        8,4        .88.6
sos-Toccor servsie-                            1,064.7      2,022.9       1,934.3      3,248.8       4,485.2       6,963.8     12,202.7      19,859.6         13.7            28.0         22.5            31.2        26.2        27,9
EXFORTS. TOTAL                                    2 75.4       6,081.7       7,795.1J.     1     0    9 5_ 58 3P4    243 192 6     40,685,9     63 305 9         17.2           31.7          20.8           188.0       180.0       100.0
OSlcrod Agrliolror1 Goods                         1.          824.0       1,138.1      1947          2915         1t51W9        .,2.                           5.6           29.7           9i              26         1.            .
Petroleu= sod Pr-ductB                            38.4        460.1       1,729.4      1,793.3       3,789.3      10,777.8     2,192,9       38,885,5         64.3           87.9          26.6             1,4        24.9        59.5
8slecotd min-rols                                244.3        423.4         444.9        548.8         952.2       1,095.2      1,343,6       1,844.0         11.6           23.2          11,8             8,9         6,3         2.0
f--fsctores                                       443-9     1,069.3       1,611.0       2,143.6      2,372.6       2, 728.9      3,514.1      5,259.9         19.2            22 3         14.1             16 2       15.6         8.1
Other Gods                                          -         236.9          79,9           -           23.6           -             - _                                      -             -                           -           -
No-.Factor Eervceas                            1,397.7      3,077.2       3,190.8      4,461.1       5,7S0.5       7,038.8      9,606.3      15,306.5         17.1           19.0          16.7            50.9        38.0        23.4
Y3ADE INDICES                                                  A-rgst   72-100
Esport Price lldes                                99.1        162.0        175.8         196,0         254.5         375.9        536.3_/       684.4         13.0           17.4          11.8
l=port Prlce Isdss                                91.0        148.0         164.0        176,5         199.4         028.0        269.4         329.9         10.2            9,1           7.6
Te,ss sf Teado                                    96.8        109.5         107.1        109.8         127.6         164.8        199,1         207.4          2.5            7.1           4.0
OALUE ADDED  l 0S0CTO0                                         Cosatot- 1972 P        Uices, 007 Millions                                                                                                             A. T of Tsetl
prl,srs                                        4,136,0      4,483.9      4,765.6       4,946.8       4,922.0       5,020.4      5,326.1       5,819.9          1.6            2,5           3.0            11,2         8.4         6,2
Sa-od-ry                                      12,405.0    16,951.9      18,236.3      20,026.2      21,663.9     24,160.3      29,234,0      38,910.5          6.4            7.5          10.0            33.6        37 4        1. 5
Torrtary                                      20,406.4    27,073.9      27,982.6      29,461.9      31,900.7     34,034.1      39,095,3      49,105.0          5.8            4.8           7.6            55.2        54.3        52,3
Totgl CDP                                     36,970.4    48,509.5      50,968.4      54,434.8      56,786.6     63,214.9      73,655.4      93,835.3          5.6            5.6           8,2           100.0       100.9       100
C05OOLIDATED PDBLIC SECTOR FINANCES                                                                                                                                                                                  A-'% of  0DP
C       Rrest osrolpre                         5,450.4      9,104.6     10,274.9      12,051.8      13,467.3      15,920.7     20,887.7      27,314.3         10.9           11.7          10.9            14.8        22.3        26.2
Correst opsedi totes                          3,918.4      6,6444.3      6,89077  00,18363         10,65305      12 4463.1    14,90.9       18                                                            1           17.6        18.8
PchIto OarLogo                     1~~~~~~~~",55.0  460.3     1,384,2      1,865.2       2,035.8       3,357.6      5,984.7       7,7412.6       -20.7           46.2          15,              6242        47          74
IDoossOroe                                     2,198.4      4,723.4      4,292.1       5,212.6       6,822.4       8,276,9     10,534.1      12,885.9         16.5           12 4           8.9             6.0        11.3        12,4
nefloft (not)                                    666.4      4, 243.1     2,907.9       3,343.3       3,986.6      4,919.2       4,549.3       5,143,4         44.8            2.9           2.5             1.8         6.6         4.9
ALLOGATLON OP  GROSS PUBLIC SECTR                                                                                                                                              1975-79T
EXPENDITURES
EO-rgy                                                   5,369.1      6,474,1       7,736.5      10,548.3 -       . . I                                     ,             1804                                      33.3
Tegn-por- sod C-ssoitosi-                               1,732.1        1,503.3      1,537.4       1,403. 2       0.0.                                                     -8.4                                       4 4
specCal OelforJ                                         4,221.9       4,602.0       4,771.6       5,338,3                                                                  Iss,  S.O                                16.9
lndeotry                                                1,640.0       1,455.6       1,392.4       1,828,5 I.a7                                                             2.8                                       5 .
AgeloolLUOs sod  Rtral Darstopeast                       1,977.1      1,617.5       1,562,7       1,474.3        =.a.                                                     -7.1                                       47
GegePsi A80ii5trt5-i- sod  efs.a.                      35,290.8      5,160.8       5,552.2       9,384.2        0,0,                                                      29.9                                     29 6
Cosnaoro                                                 1,531.7       1,434,9      1,705.2       1,444.0        =s.                                                       -8Lh                                      5 2
Teoriso,                                                    63.2          73.5         53,9          48.0        =.-.                                                     -t.8                                       0.2
Total                                                   19.843.9     22.323.7      24,392.5      396_8.          os                                                       19.4                                     180.0
DOBXSlIC PRICEt
GC=eral Ptice Iodso  1972 s 100                90.4        162.0         261.4        306.5         365.1         464.2
Etchsoos Rate                                  12.3         12.5          22.6         22.8          22.8          22.9
SLECTED INDICATORS                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1971-75  1i975-80  1980-81
ICOR                                               2.62         3.60          6.94         2.71          2.50          2.90         3.21          3.01         .988       1 3,66            3.88
ropers Elsstotiy                                   0.60         0.60         -4.63         5.20          4.00          4,90         2.00          1,00         1 .64          2.80          1.90
Oargss_l Osoigs OsRso                             2,61         0.23          0.18         0.28          0.20          0.28          9,13         9,20         0.16           0,24          8.20
Is Milli-    As .  of Tort1        1960-1970                                                      7. of Ader      -e  W-
LAOR 700C0  AND OUTPUT 1R WO 0ER             1960   1970  _19        1970        Growth Rote                        1960          1970         196                         Gro-th Rato
Agriculsure                                  .54    5.1   50.5       39.2            -0,6                           608,0        811.0          34.7          33,0             4,4
ITdostsY                                      2.1    3.0   19.6       23,1            3,6                        2,468.9       4,136.0         140.6         145.0             5,3
.ernlces                                      3,2    4.9   29.9      37.7             4.4                        3,222.8      4,168.7          183.6         142,0             2.3
orsta                                        10.7   13.0  180.0    100,0              2.0                         1,755.6      2,843.9         100.0         100,0             5.0
1/  Aver-ge 9rowth rats c-lc1ltsd bIy least eqosee.
2/   This s_ri-s does sot reflect 0800i00Psoh        Is i bs cltastlTchb-oo of feed.  Too nev  cOsssloicstin, ass p-t fia -i,  es..s th-t these i. poete sate eeeelde- ably higher.
3/  Reflects inores.iog shete  of oil escorts ti the tltbl.      5 isoll so lscroal s  is she -elati-s prios of oil_
Apr4i 20, 1981






- 30 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                                                 ANNEX S
(UD$ million at current prices)                                                        Page 5 of 5
Preliminary
Actual                      Estimates             Projections
1970         1975           1977           1978           1979           1980           1982           1985
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (including NFS)                             2,745.4      6,081.7        7,795.1       10,92o.5       15,203.4       24,192.6       40,685.9       65,305.9
Imports (including NFS)                            3,416.9       8,636.7        7,845.1       11,561.0       17,129.7       26,732.8       44,506.8       71,176.9
Resource Balance                                    - 671.5     -2,555.1          -50.0         -639.5      - 1,926,3       -2,540.3       -3,820.9       -5,871.0
Interest. net 1                                   - 307.0      -1,266.5       -1,811.5       -2,292.2      - 3,199.2       -4,128.2       -4,990.2       -7,070.3
Direct Investment Income                           - 267.5       - 657.5         -401.4         -477.4         -587.0         -587.0         -587.0         -587.0
Workers' Remittances                                  122.7         174.6          251.0         277.0          320.0          352.0          425.9          566.9
Current Transfers, net                                 55.3         123.4         168.5          197.9          218.0          239.8          290.2          386.2
Current Account Balance                            -1,068.0     -4,181.1       -1,843.4       -2,934.2       -5,174.5       -6,663.6       -8,682.0      -12,575.2
Private Direct Investment                             322.8        748.8          555.9          530.0          666.5          738.4          928.3        1,380.7
Public Med. and Long Term Loans, net                  258.6      3,565.8        4,394.8        4,731.3        3,749.7        5,710.9        7,065.2        9,813.7
Disbursements                                     821.3       4,418.6        6,727.9        9,147.0       11,576.6       9,578.6       13,053.1       22,290.1
Repayments                                        -562.7       -852.8       -2,333.1       -4,415.7       -7,826.8       -3,867.7      -5,987.9      -12,476.4
Other Capital                                         588.7         31.7       -2,603.1       -1,893.0        1,177.2        1,183.6        1,565.3          380.9
Change in Reservee (-= increese)                     -102.1       -165.2         -504.2         -434.1         -418.9         -969.3         -876.8         -999.8
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
PUBLIC MED. AND L.T. LOANS
IBRD                                                  146.8        310.0          162.0          494.5          527.0          747.0
IDA
Other Multilateral                                    112.4        121.8          122.0          152.2'         268.4          336.0
Governments                                            78.8        265.2          223.3          407.8           21.2          250.0
Suppliers                                             69.7         158.6          105.3          133.4            2.0          300.0
Banks and Financial Institutions                     443.5       3,360.7        8,250.5        8,817.8       12,240.3       4,437.8
DEBT AND DEBT SERViCE
public Debt Outstanding and Disbursed              3,238.0      11,541.7       20,420.7       25,152.0       28,901.7      34,612.7       EXTERNAL DEBT
(end of period)
Interest on Public Debt                              218.0         850.4        1,327.2        1,822.8        2,901.2       3,589.4                       Outstanding and Disbursed
Repayment on Public Debt                             475.6         762.6        2,333.1        4,415.7        7,826.8        3,867.7                            on Dec. 31, 1980
Public Debt Service (net)                            693.6       1,612.9        3,660.3       6,238.6       10,728.0        7,457.1
Burden on Export Earnings 2/ (1/,)                                                                                                                             $Millions   Percent
a.  Public Debt Service                             24,2          25.8           45.5           55.7           69.1          30.4       Public M & L.T.
b.  Public Debt Service and Direct                  33.5          36.3           50.5           60.0           72.9          32,8            Loans
Investment Income
IBRD                  1,967.3        5.7
Average Terms of Public Debt                                                                                                              other Off.Sournes    1,893.9          5.5
a.  Interest as Y of prior year's                   7.4          10.2            8.3            8.9           11.5          12,4       Other private         30,751.5       88.8
D.O. and D.                                                                                                                        Sources
b.  Amortization as 7Y of prior                    16.3           9.2           14.6           21.6           31.1          13.4
year's  D.O. and D.                                                                                                              Total                34,612.7       100.0
IBRD Exposure
a.  IBRD D.O. and D. as y of                       18.0           9.7            6.7            5.9            6.0            5.7
Public D.O. and D.
b.  IBRD Debt Service as % of                       7.7           7.2            4.2            2.9            2.1           3.2
Public Debt Service
-  Not applicable or available                                                                                                                        February 27, 1981
1/ Includes interest on short-term private and public debt
2/ Includes wo`kers reamittaces






- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of May 31, 1981)
Loan                                                           Amount less       Undis-
No.    Year           Borrower               Purpose          Cancellations    bursed
38 loans fully disbursed                           1,870.4
909       1973  NAFINSA                      Water Supply             79.5         8.4
968       1974  NAFINSA                      Roads                    90.0         2.9
970       1974  NAFINSA                      Irrigation               47.0        13.8
1022       1974  NAFINSA                      Airports                 25.0         3.0
1053-5     1974  NAFINSA                      Integrated Rural
Development           38.0         20.3
1111       1975  NAFINSA                      Irrigation               50.0        30.2
1112       1975  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA         Industry                 50.0         4.2
1186       1975  BANOBRAS                     Water Supply             40.0        17.8
1232       1976  Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and NAFINSA    Railways                   100.0         4.7
1420-5     1977  NAFINSA                      Tourism                  42.0        18.5
1462-5     1977  NAFINSA                      Integrated Rural
Development          120.0         51.9
1524-5     1978  NAFINSA                      Tourism                  50.0         4.3
1552       1978  NAFINSA                      Industry                47.0          9.9
1553-5     1978  NAFINSA                      Agriculture              56.0        44.0
1554       1978  BANOBRAS                     Urban Development        16.5        12.3
1560       1978  NAFINSA                      Industry                100.0        18.9
1569-5     1978  NAFINSA                      Agricultural Credit  200.0            4.3
969-1     1979  NAFINSA                      Irrigation               25.0         5.1
1643       1979  NAFINSA                      Small-scale Agri.       60.0         57.4
1671       1979  BANOBRAS                     Highways                120.0       106.5
1686       1979  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA         Industry                 80.0        45.7
1706-5     1979  NAFINSA                      Irrigation               92.0        88.6
1712       1979  NAFINSA                      Industry                175.0       131.2
1820       1980  NAFINSA                      Small and Medium
Scale Mining          40.0        40.0
1858       1980  NAFINSA                      Irrigation              160.0       160.0
1881       1980  NAFINSA                      Small and Medium
Scale Industry       100.0        87.5
1891-5     1980  NAFINSA                      Agricultural Credit  325.0          325.0
1908       1981  NAFINSA 1/                   Irrigation               23.0        23.0
1913       1981  BANOBRAS I/                  Water Supply            125.0       125.0
1929       1981  BANOBRAS T/                  Railways                150.0       150.0
1945       1981  NAFINSA 1/                   Rainfed Agri.          280.0        280.0
1964       1981  BANPESCA1/                   Port Development         14.0        14.0
1990       1981  BANOBRAS T/                  Urban Development II 164.0          164.0
TOTAL                                              4,954.4 2/
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                  719.2
Total now outstanding                               4,235.2
Amount sold                       92.3
of which has been repaid         92.2                   0.1
Total now held by Bank 2/                          4,235.1
Total undisbursed                                               2,072.4
1/   Not yet ettective.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of May 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                                                  US$ Million
Year           Obligor                     Type of Business       Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/                Industrial Equipment    0.8        --      0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. 1/    A.C. Engine Overhaul    0.5            --      0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. 1/              Twist Drills              0.3      --      0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora
66/68    Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.                Steel                     2.3    21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/                Steel                     0.9      0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. 1/          Sodium Sulphate           0.7      --      0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A.1/  Construction Equipment  --             2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A, 1/         Iron Ore Mining           1.5      --      1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A.           Textiles                 12.0      --    12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V.1/   Pulp and Paper                2/       2/      2/
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.            Cement                   15.9      __    15.9
1974/81  Cancun Aristos Hotel              Tourism                   1.0      0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                     Steel                    12.0      3.2   15.2
1978/81  Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.           Pulp and Paper            9.0      3.5   12.5
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals               19.0      --    19.0
1979     Cementos Tolteca, S.A. 3/         Cement                  100.0      --   100.0
1979/81  Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.                  Tourism                    --       3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey,            Electrical Wire
S.A. 3/                          and Cable            18.0      --    18.0
1980      Industrias Resistol, S.A. 3/  Particleboard               25.0      --    25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico S.A.3/ Flat Glass                  114.9      --   114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. 3/               Mining                   110.0      --   110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro S.A. 3/  Pulp and Paper               59.5      --    59.5
1981     Corporacion Agroindustrial,
S.A.                          Agri-Business             11.3      3.0   14.3
Total Gross Commitments                                  514.6    36.6  551.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                              379.1    22.1  401.2
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                        135.5    14.5  150.0
Total undisbursed (including participants)               150.2      3.0  153.2
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.
3/   Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION: PROGRESS AND PROBLEMS 1/
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:  $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Subsequently reduced to US$79.5 million;
Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974. Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Overall, the majority of the project works as originally
defined have been completed and the physical targets of the
project have been achieved. In December 1979, the Executive
Directors agreed to amend the Project Description to include
new works which would serve the same objective of increasing
bulk water supply to the Mexico City metropolitan area and
utilize a forecast loan surplus (R79-307). However, the
authorities reconsidered the need for some of the works
included in the new Project Description and requested that
$10.5 million of the loan be cancelled. This cancellation was
made as of March 6, 1981. It is expected that the remainder
of the loan will be fully utilized before the closing date.
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Substantial initial delays have been encountered in project
works because of the shortage of budgetary allocations.
Substantial cost increases caused by price escalation were also
encountered. Taking this into account, a reduction in the scope
of the project was made in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975
kim) to ten roads and part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which,
because of cost increases, have the same total cost as the
original project. The roads remaining in the project continue
to be well justified as benefits have kept pace with costs.
Completion is now expected in mid-1981, or about three years
behind schedule.
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project authorities have rephased construction; a substantial
reduction in project scope was approved by the Executive
Directors (R79-51 of March 13, 1979). Progress is now
satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Although behind schedule and still moving slowly, this project
is proceeding satisfactorily. Project components that have
been completed are achieving higher rates of utilization than
envisaged at time of appraisal because of greatly increased air
traffic in Mexico. Three of the six project airports are
complete. One more will be complete by the end of this year.
The last two will be finished next year.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Subsequently reduced to US$38 million;
Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1975. Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Project implementation is improving after delays due to
management difficulties and inadequate budget support.
Reprogramming of the project is underway to adjust for
these delays, and the project scope is likely to be reduced;
the Executive Directors will be asked to approve a new
project description shortly. At the borrcwer's request
US$12 million of the loan were cancelled on March 5, 1981.
An extension of the closing date is under consideration.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; Subsequently
reduced to $50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
In view of the project's size, complexity and high cost, the
Government and the Bank agreed to phase project development
over a longer period of time and substantially reduce the scope
of the project to be financed under the Bank loan (R77-305 of
December 13, 1977 and R79-56 of March 19, 1979). Progress on
most components of the revised project is satisfactory. However,
some difficulties have been encountered in the execution of
the land levelling component due to climatic problems and
procurement practices.
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:  $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The Bajio Urea Plant is in operation but construction of the
Pajaritos Urea Plant has been delayed mainly because of material
shortages and difficulties with contractors. Construction is
now expected to be completed by the closing date, and no major
problems are expected. The estimated cost is about 35 percent
above the original budget, mainly due to increases in equipment
and civil works costs. However, the project is still considered
to be economically justified.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Ln. No. 1186   Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: January 14, 1982.
Subloan agreements have been signed with all cities included
in the project, fully commiting the loan. Works are progressing
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Project:  $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The project had a slow start, traffic growth in 1976 was
less than anticipated, and funding in 1976-77 (the stabiliza-
tion period) was inadequate. Works are now being executed
according to a revised investment plan which has been agreed
upon with the Bank. Due to initial delays the project is
expected to be completed by mid-1981, about two-and-a-half
years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1420   Baja California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 28, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of infrastructure at both project sites has begun.
The first 250-room hotel at Loreto was completed in August
1980. Project implementation is behind schedule due to short-
ages of building materials in the area. The marketing studies
of domestic as well as North American tourism and the economic
study of tourism have been completed. Overall, progress is
satisfactory, but difficulties in internal coordination
have caused disbursements to lag behind schedule. Although
bottlenecks are being eliminated, the closing date was recently
extended by one year to allow project completion.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  $120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
The project is proceding satisfactorily; major efforts to
decentralize project planning and execution have been made.
The result is increased beneficiary participation and
better coordination between executing agencies at the field
level. However, decentralization, reprogramming of micro-
region investment plans, and several changes in management
have resulted in delay in project execution; the closing
date will have to be extended.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Project:  $50 million Loan of March 21, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress of commitments is satisfactory and disbursements should
be completed before the closing date.
Ln. No. 1552   Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Development Project;
US$47 million Loan of May 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
January 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After some initial delays, the integrated program to assist
industrial enterprises is making rapid progress. Forty-eight
extension agents have now received full training and have been
assigned to 14 regional offices. Over 80 percent of the loan
has been committed.
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Five of the six pilot projects have been approved by the
Bank; the sixth is expected to be submitted shortly. Project
authorities are making excellent progress in the agricultural
development program of each pilot project. The applied
research programs are proceeding on schedule.
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The shelter-related component and the training centers are
progressing satisfactorily, but delays still remain in the
implementation of the productive credits, industrial premises
and river control components and the studies. Steps to speed
implementation in these areas have been recently discussed with
the Government. The possibility of reallocating funds to the
shelter-related components is being contemplated. Inadequacies
detected in the accounting procedures of FIDELAC for the
construction materials credit program have now been resolved.
Ln. No. 1560   FONEI III:  US$100 Million Loan of September 27, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Demand for industrial investment financing continues to be
strong. Over 97 percent of the loan has been committed.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. 1569   Sixth Agricultural Credit:  US$200 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Implementation is proceeding rapidly. The loan is expected
to be fully disbursed one year ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 969-1 Rio Panuco Irrigation Project; $25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979.
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Major project civil works are on schedule and expected to be
completed by the closing date. Progress in agricultural devel-
opment has been slower than infrastructure construction.
The technical assistance program is being strengthened and
will emphasize better water utilization and intensive
agriculture.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Most livestock and irrigation subprojects to be included in
the Project have been approved by the Bank, and the Government
is accelerating preparation and presentation of the balance of
the program.
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Project:  US$120 Million Loan of August 23,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Commitments are ahead of schedule but disbursements are behind
schedule because of budget cuts in 1979 and because of delays
in submitting reimbursement applications to the Bank. The
authorities have agreed to increase budget allocations and
speed up disbursement requests.
Ln. No. 1686   Second Fertilizer Project - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of May 18, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 21, 1979;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
Orders for most of the equipment have been placed and about
30 percent of the construction work is committed with about
22 percent completed. The project is now about 17 months
behind schedule and runs the risk of further delays unless
implementation arrangements are improved. FERTIMEX's manage-
ment is considering steps to improve implementation.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Ln. No. 1706   Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$92 Million Loan
of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
Plans and bidding documents for the Sinaloa component are well
underway. Despite initial delays, the Fuerte program is
now gaining momentum.
Ln. No. 1712   FONEI IV:  US$175 Million Loan of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: October 5, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Demand for industrial financing continues to be strong;
US$125.4 million of the loan have been committed to subprojects
to date, and additional subprojects requiring US$31.6 million
are being considered.
Ln. No. 1820   Small and Medium Scale Mining Development Project:  US$40
Million Loan of August 18, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 4, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Project execution is being initiated.
Ln. No. 1858   Apatzingan Irrigation Project; US$160 Million Loan of
September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 19, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Contracting for the main civil works has been initiated and a
strengthened technical assistance program is underway.
Ln. No. 1881   Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project;
US$100 Million Loan of September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 22, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
About 14 percent of the loan has been committed (see previous
comment on Ln. 1552).
Ln. No. 1891   Seventh Agricultural Credit Project:  US$325 Million
Loan of August 15, 1980; Effectiveness Date: November 17, 1980:
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
No major problems in implementation are foreseen. Disbursements
are behind schedule because of difficulties in completing required
documentation and delays in submitting reimbursement applications
to the Bank.
Ln. No. 1908   Ocoroni Irrigation Project:  US$23 Million Loan of March 2, 1981;
Effectiveness Date:                 ; Closing Date:  June 30, 1986.
The loan is not yet effective.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. 1913   Second Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:
US$125 Million Loan of January 23, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
June 23, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Project implementation is on schedule. The loan is 74 percent
commited.
Ln. No. 1929   Fourth Railway Project:  US$150 Million Loan of February 12, 1981;
Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Project execution is proceding on schedule.
Ln. No. 1945   Rainfed Agricultural Development Project:  US$150 Million Loan
of March 2, 1981;  Effectiveness Date:                  ;  Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
The loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1964   Ports Development Preparation Project:  US$14.0 Million Loan
of May 7, 1981; Effectiveness Date:                         Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
The loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1990   Second Urban and Regional Development Project:  US$164 million
Loan of                   ; Effective Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
This Loan, approved by the Executive Directors on May 12, 1981,
has not yet been signed.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT - PIDER III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: about 18 months
(b) Project prepared by: Secretariat of Programming and Budget
(c) First preparation mission: February, 1979
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: May, 1980
(e) Negotiations completed in: June, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: October, 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness:
(a) Micro-regional rural development offices would be staffed in each of
the eight micro-regions that have been appraised (para 68).
(b) A plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for monitoring and evaluation at
the federal, state, and micro-regional levels had been issued
(para 70).
Conditions of Disbursement
(c) Disbursement would be made against expenditures in a micro-
region only if the micro-region plan had been prepared in
accordance with the agreed format and appraised in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para 57).
(d) Disbursement would be made against expenditures on live-
stock investments only when those investments were made
in accordance with criteria agreed to by the Guarantor
and the Bank (para 63).
(e) It would be a condition of disbursement for the training
component of the project that a detailed staff training
plan, acceptable to the Bank, had been presented (para 66).



41 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(f) It would be a condition of disbursement for the
socio-economic studies component (Part 0) of the Project
that feasibility and a specific work program, acceptable
to the Bank, had been adopted (para 71).
Other
(g) Government-financed investment per beneficiary family would
not exceed US$10,000 for livestock or soil and water
conservation sub-projects would not exceed US$10,000
(para 72).
(h) Beneficiaries' contribution to investment costs would be agreed
to in writing before construction of works begins (para 73).
(i) Before starting a small-scale irrigation work, SARH would
obtain a commitment from a bank to provide credit to benefi-
ciaries of the work (para 65).
(j) The Bank would disburse only against sub-loans made at
interest rates agreed between the Guarantor and the Bank.
Interest rates on medium-term farm sub-loans would be adjusted
annually to reflect changes in the cost to Mexican Banks of
borrowed funds (para 76).



- 42 -
ANNEX IV
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT--PIDER III
Estimated Project Cost
------US$ Million------
Component                                        Local   Foreign   Total
I.  Directly Productive                          155.6      42.2     197.8
A.  Agricultural Development                  63.8      15.0      78.8
Irrigation                               27.1       9.0      36.1
Soil and Water Conservation              14.2       1.9       16.1
Fruit Crop Development                   12.4       1.4       13.8
Coffee Development                        8.3       2.2       10.5
Coconut Development                       1.8       0.5        2.3
B.  Livestock Development                    46.5       15.6      62.1
Beef and Dairy                           31.1      10.4      41.5
Pasture Improvement                       5.6       1.9        7.5
Small-stock                               9.8       3.3       13.1
C.  Other                                    45.3       11.6      56.9
Fisheries                                 8.1       0.9        9.0
Forestry Development                      2.1       0.2        2.3
Rural Industries                          6.2       3.3        9.5
Development Credit                       28.9       7.2       36.1
II.  Support                                       67.6      14.2      81.8
Extension and Research                   21.4       5.3      26.7
Rural Roads                              11.3       3.8       15.1
Rural Electrification                    11.3       3.8       15.1
Rural Marketing                           4.3        -        4.3
Farmer Organization and Training          8.0       0.4        8.4
Feasibility Studies                       5.0       0.5        5.5
Baseline Studies                          3.8       0.4       4.2
Productive Programs for Women             2.5        -         2.5
III.  Social Infrastructure                         27.6       4.5       32.1
Education                                 8.4       1.4        9.8
Rural Water Supply                        7.4       1.8       9.2
Health Centers                            6.4       0.7        7.1
Nutrition                                 4.5       0.5        5.0
Self-help Materials                       0.9       0.1        1.0
IV.  Project Management                            10.0       3.0       13.0
Monitoring and Evaluation                 1.3       0.9        2.2
Organization and Management               6.2       1.5        7.7
Training and Technical Assistance         2.5       0.6        3.1
V.  Base Cost                                    260.8      63.9     324.7
VI.  Contingencies                                146.6      34.4      181.0
Physical                                 18.5       4.3      22.8
Price                                   128.1      30.1     158.2
VII.  Total Cost                                   407.4       98.3     505.7



N                                                                           I A  ~       W  7IBRD-15264
14NN)NO                 N              C      IrNN      N                                              -N                                                                                        NNNEEN NN
N                                                                                                                                  A     ~     ~     ~     IN  N  A N  N;N   N '   A  
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A  Cd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N'S~AN                                                                                         NN
o                                                                                                                                                                 N0N N             NGN1E4                               BELIZENNCRAJ
ON.O.N           EL SALVADQ
0   N  0   R ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -N-                                                                   
'A.N5oN   NN INNN 'N N  MANNO
LOCATIONS OF MICRO-REGIONS                              /NAdNoNNN NAAoo9NNNNNN 
.9             ~~~~~SINALOA                                ONNNANNN N/ NNNOO
OA H U   L                                                                                           -PW- d fr -SOhTh-Cu/
Poc J fl ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NMOCOR [TO                                                                                                                                              u/f
C OSALA-EL-OTA
N ~~~~'  EON                          S ~~~~~~~~ RIOSRANDE/4eA'/    
-  (~~~ SN ANA NM:N,,  ' ~~~~~~FRESNILLOLCALERAM ex                                                              o
-  >   r'----%.:  <NjI ~~~~~N   <~~      ~           SALPARNAISO
-             '9 -  ~~~TLALTENANGO
-                   ~~~~~~COSTA GRANDE
9                            SA tj ~~~~~~~~TAALISATOYAC
COSTA CHICA
L Li I S                             ~~~~~~~~~OMIETEPEC
POTOSi          --    -CUAUHATEMOC
AYARIT                                              r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ LINT/SAL NO0RTE
3m                                                                 -        N                       C-NYI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N IV=    ORIENTEY
-  &ANAJIJATOI     N                                     PACER~~~~~~~~~su  II O SAOERLE
p ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 CN IA ROC6
-25ST   toliyets in Millitmeters (Mean Annual Piepiaon
---Stale BooncIories
---I erntional Boundaries                                                                                                                                                        BLZ
MEXICO                                                                                  HIA_     
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PIDER I
0     1co    1O0     30      41)0    500                                                                          N     ~      ,  
110-                              lw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                   / 



