Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY              t
Report No. 3231-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPCORT
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER I
June 30, 1981
Agriculture and Rural Development Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =   Mexican Peso (Mex$)
US$1               =   Mex$23.0
Mex$l               =   US$0.0434
Mex$1 million       =   US$43,478
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 hectare (ha)                 10,000 m2  =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (kin)              0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)  =   0.39 square miles  =  100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)            =   2.2 pounds
1 liter (1)                -   0.26 gallons
1,000 kg  = 1 metric ton  =   0.98 long ton
GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PIDER PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
(English and Spanish)
BANRURAL     -   National Bank for Rural Credit (Banco Nacional de Credito
Rural)
BORUCONSA    -   Rural Warehouse System (Bodegas Rurales CONASUPO)
CAPFCE       -   Administrative Committee for the Federal School
Construction Program (Comite Administrador del Programa
Federal de Construccion de Escuelas)
CECADE       -   Training Center for Development (Centro de Capacitacion
para el Desarrollo)
CFE          -   Federal Electricity Commission (Comision Federal de
-Electricidad)
CIDER        -   Research Center for Rural Development (Centro de Investi-
gacion para el Desarrollo Rural)
CONAFRUT    -'  National Fruit Development Commission (Comision Nacional
de Apoyo a la Fruticultura)
CONASUPO     -   National Company for Popular Subsistence (Compania
Nacional de Subsistencias Populares)
COPLADE      -   State Committee for Development Planning
(Comite de Planeacion para el Desarrollo Estatal)
COPLAMAR     -   General Coordination of the National Plan for Depressed
Areas and Marginal Groups (Coordinacion General del
Plan Nacional de Zonas Deprimidas y Grupos Marginados)
CUC          -   Master Coordination Agreement (Convenio Unico de
Coordinacion)
DGCSA        -   Directorate General of Soil and Water Conservation
(Direccion General de Conservacion de Suelo y Agua)
DGDRI        -   Directorate General of Integrated Rural Development
(Direccion General de Desarrollo Rural Integrado)
DGDUT        -   Directorate General of Rainfed Districts and Units
(Direccion General para los Distritos de Temporal
y sus Unidades).
FICAR        -   Trust Fund for Credit to Irrigated Areas (Fideicomisos
Instituidos para Credito para la Agricultura de Riego).
FIRA         -   Agriculture Trust Fund of the Bank of Mexico
(Fideicomisos Instituidos en Relacion a la Agricultura)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
heir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Glossary of Abbreviations (Continued)
IDB          -   Inter-American Development Bank (Banco Inter-Americano
para el Desarrollo)
IFAD         -   International Fund for Agricultural Development (Fondo
Internacional para el Desarrollo Agricola)
IGC          -   Coconut Promotion Agency of Guerrero (Impulsora Guerrense
de Cocoteros)
IMSS         -   Mexican Social Security Institute (Instituto Mexicano de
Seguro Social)
INI          -   National Indigenous Institute (Instituto Nacional Indi-
genista)
INIA         -   National Insitute for Agricultural Research (Instituto
Nacional de Investigacion Agricola)
INIP         -   National Institute for Livestock Research (Instituto
Nacional de Investigacion Pecuaria)
INMECAFE     -   Mexican Coffee Institute (Instituto Mexicano del Cafe)
JEAP         -   State Potable Water Board (Juntas Estatales de Agua Potable)
NAFINSA      -   Nacional Financiera, S.A.
OHDR         -   Directorate of Hydraulic Works of Rural Development
(Direccion de Obras Hidraulicas para el Desarrollo Rural)
PIDER        -   Integrated Rural Development Program (Programa Integrado
de Desarrollo Rural)
PLANAT       -   National Plan for Rainfed Agriculture Development (Plan
Nacional de Agricultura de Temporal)
PPM          -   Department of Fisheries (Productos Pesqueros Mexicanos)
SAHOP        -   Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works
(Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Publicas)
SARH         -   Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources (Secretaria
de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos)
SHCP         -   Secretariat of Public Finance (Secretaria de Hacienda y
Credito Publico)
SPP          -   Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting (Secretaria de
Programacion y Presupuesto)
SRA          -   Secretariat of Land Reform (Secretaria de Reforma Agraria)
SSA          -   Secretariat of Public Health and Assistance (Secretaria
de Salubridad y Asistencia)



MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                                Page
I.  INTRODUCTION ...............................................   1
II.  MEXICO'S RURAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY ........................   2
A.  Background - Mexico's Rural Poverty Problems ....      .......   2
B. The PIDER Program - Evolution of the Program
and Process ..........................................   3
C.  Recent Development Programs in Mexico ....        ..............   8
III.  THE PROJECT AREA ...........................................  10
A.  Selection of States ....................................  10
B.  Micro-regional Selection Criteria .............     i  ........  10
Table 3.1: Project Area, Population, Agricultural Area,
Average Farm Size and Rainfall .......... ..       ...............  11
IV.  THE PROJECT ................................................  12
A.  General Description ....................................  12
Project Objectives .................................. ; 12
Project Strategy .....................................  13
Implementation Strategy and Distribution of
Responsibilities ...................................  14
Project Composition ..................................  16
B.  Detailed Features ..................       ....................  17
B.1  Directly Productive Investment ....        ................  17
B.2  Productive Support Investment .....................  25
B.3  Social Infrastructure .............................  31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Mexico in May/June 1980, comprised of Messrs. A. Schumacher and R. Cuca,
Misses C. Hamann and W. Stickel (Bank), Messrs. W. Mactier and J. Pines
(Consultants). A post-appraisal mission comprised of Ms. C. Hamann,
Mr. V. Freeman (Bank), Messrs. W. Mactier, E. Miller and K. Swanberg
(Consultants), visited Mexico during August 1980. This report was prepared
by Misses C. Hamann and C. Mejia, with contributions from Mr. K. Swanberg
(Consultant).



Table of Contents (Continued)
Chapter                                                                Page
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..................................  33
Organizational Structure .....................................  33
Project Implementation .............. .........................  36
Monitoring and Evaluation ..........    ..........................   37
Chart 1:  Organization at Federal Level .....     .................  38
Chart 2: Project Organization ........      .......................  39
VI.  COST AND FINANCING ...........................................   40
Financing ...........................                             40
Budget Authorizations ...........................   40
Project Cost Summary ...........................   41
Accounts and Auditing ...........................   42
Procurement ...........................   43
Disburs'ement ...........................   44
VII.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION ...................................   45
A.  Production ...........................   45
B.  Marketing ...........................   46
C.  Beneficiaries' Income .........      ..................   46
D.  Nutritional Impact .......        ....................   47
E.  Employment Impact ...........................   48
F. Environmental Impact ........        ...................   48
*G.  Economic Analysis ...........................   48
H.  Project Risks ...........................   50
I.  Sensitivity Analysis ........       ...................   50
J.  Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact ..........................  50
VIII.   SUMMARY OF MAIN AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .... ..... 51
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:  The PIDER Program:  Assessment of Impact
A. Institut4onal Impact
B. PIDER Physical Impact
ANNEX 2:   Description of the Micro-regions



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEX 3:   Components, Main Executing Agencies, and Disbursement Categories
ANNEX 4:   Agricultural Production, Benefits, and Crop Budgets
Table 1:   Crop Budgets by State:
A. Sinaloa
B. Guerrero
C. Zacatecas
D. Yucatan
Table 2:   Mocorito:  Crop Production Without PIDER
Table 3:   Mocorito:  Crop Production With PIDER - Area Cultivated
Table 4:   Mocorito:  Crop Production With PIDER - Yields
Table 5:   Mocorito:  Crop Production With PIDER - Volume of Production
Table 6:   Mocorito:  Crop Production With PIDER - Value of Production
Table 7:   Mocorito:  Crop Production With PIDER - Costs
Table 8:   Mocorito:  Crop Production With PIDER - Incremental Benefits and Costs
ANNEX 5:   Project Cost Estimates
Table 1:   Total Costs and Phasing of Investments -
Summary Table: Seventeen Micro-Regions
Table 2:   Cost Estimates and Phasing by Class of Accounting Category
Table 3:   Total Investments Programmed - By Eight Micro-Regions
Table 4:   Mocorito:  Total Costs and Phasing of Investments
Table 5:   Sur de Yucatan:  Total Costs and Phasing of Investments
Table 6:   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
ANNEX 6:
Table 1:   Incremental Volume of Production - Crops
Table 2:   Incremental Livestock Production
Table 3:   Farm Income With and Without the Project by Micro-Region (Crops Only)
Table 4:   Farm Labor Generated by the Project by Micro-Region
Table 5:   Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Table 6:   Economic and Financial Prices
MAP:  IBRD 15264 - Mexico:  Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER III






MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        The PIDER program (Integrated Program for Rural Development) was
initiated in 1973 to focus the activities of Government agencies on selected
rural areas (micro-regions) which have substantial productive potential,
but whose populations lack the resources necessary to tap this potential. The
Government of Mexico continues to give priority to improving the incomes
and welfare of the nation's twelve million rural poor, who make up 50 percent
of the rural and 20 percent of the total population. By January 1980, Mexico
had invested US$1.6 billion in 119 micro-regions estimated to include
50 percent of its rural poor. PIDER investments are curently running at an
annual rate of US$450 million.
1.02        Early in PIDER's development (1973), the Government requested
World Bank support for the PIDER program. A loan for US$110 million was
approved by the Bank in May 1975 to assist activities in thirty micro-regions
(PIDER I). A second loan of US$120 million assisting development in twenty
micro-regions was approved in July 1977. A separate appraisal of two micro-
regions in the state of Oaxaca was made by the Bank for the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and a loan for US$22 million was approved
by their Board in May 1980. The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is
supporting the program in an additional fifteen micro-regions. The Government
has now requested a third loan to support the consolidation and extension of
activities in seventeen micro-regions (PIDER III). Looking at the larger
context of overall Bank lending to Mexico, as of October 31, 1980, Mexico had
received 66 loans from the Bank amounting to US$4,243.9 million net of
cancellations and terminations. Of these, 24 loans for US$1,864.4 million, or
43 percent of total lending, had been for agriculture and rural development.
1.03        Based on the experience gained from PIDER I and II, PIDER III
is a departure from the usual rural development project in Mexico. The
preparation and programming periods for PIDER III have begun a process of
devolution of authority for planning and implementation of federally funded
rural development programs to the state level. This process of decentrali-
zation of authority is especially significant in the Mexican context, in which
the federal Government is extremely strong and in which federal funding has until
recently been synonymous with central planning. In the context of the PIDER
program, this process has meant a surge of new interest and energy at the
local, micro-regional, and state levels--for the first time, communities,
line agencies, and state governments have been actively involved in planning
the investments which each will have an important role in implementing.
The investment plans resulting from the first programming process are judged
by both Mexican authorities at the federal level and by the Bank appraisal
team better adapted to both local conditions and the expressed needs and wants
of beneficiaries.



- 2 -
1.04        The Government recognized that to make such a decentralized
planning process both effective and efficient, a workable mechanism would
need to be implemented initially on a controlled scale. For this reason,
four states with demonstrated planning capability were chosen to initiate
the new planning process. The seventeen micro-regions selected within these
four states are representative of the variety of difficult ecological conditions
for which Mexico is seeking technological solutions suitable for small-scale
use and of the varied socio-cultural characteristics of its rural poor
population. The goals of PIDER III (outlined in detail in paras 4.01-4.02)
include developing such technological solutions, and coincide with both
state and federal goals of raising the productivity of both human and natural
resources and the welfare of the rural poor.
II. MEXICO-S RURAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
A. Background - Mexico's Rural Poverty Problems
2.01        While Mexico has obtained a high growth rate of GDP (an average
of 7.0% per year since 1960), not all Mexicans have shared equally in the
fruits of this growth. In the early twentieth century, Mexico sought to
promote rapid economic development through high profits, low wages, forced
saving via inflation, regressive taxation, and minimal expenditure on
social projects. The resulting income distribution and investment patterns
produced large productivity differences between the rural and urban sectors.
These differences have tended to perpetuate themselves. Mexico's average
GDP per capita in 1978 was about US$1,350, but 50 percent of the rural
population earned less than US$100 per person.
2.02        A similar pattern of uneven development has characterized growth
within the agricultural sector itself. Over the last thirty years, a well-
organized public agency for hydraulic resources developed large-scale
irrigation, while the Ministry of Agriculture had little effect on rainfed
areas. While the one third of Mexican cropland that is irrigated produces
55 percent of total agricultural output, small farmers in rainfed areas have
not adopted modern agricultural techniques. As a result, half of the country's
five million farmers produce only 4 percent of total agricultural output, some
not growing enough to feed their own families.
2.03        One effect of this dualistic growth pattern in the rural sector
is an increasing dependence on imported foodstuffs. In the 1940s, Mexico
imported about 15 percent of its cereal grains. From 1950 to 1965, with the
adoption of "Green Revolution" seed varieties by large farmers and a rapid
increase in irrigated area, output burgeoned, growing at an average annual
rate of 5 percent. Increased population pressure and the onset of diminishing
returns to high-yielding varieties resulted in a slowdown in this rapid
growth. Between 1965 and 1978, the agricultural growth rate averaged about
1.4 percent annually, and production is once again lagging behind demand--
Mexican grain imports more than quadrupled between 1976 and 1980, and Mexico
now ranks among the world's four largest importers of grain.



- 3 -
2.04        Population growth has been so rapid that one third of the
agricultural labor force is landless. Many of these landless laborers are the
sons of peasants with inherited tenure to ejidos /1 too small to support their
increasing population of ejidatarios. In 1975, the rural population was
distributed among 1.5 million ejidatario families farming 22,500 ejidos,
1.2 million privately owned farms, and 1.3 million landless families.
2.05        Increased under- and unemployment in rural areas has led to a
dramatic rise in rural-urban migration. United Nations projections indicate
that Mexico City will be the most populous urban area in the world by 1990.
Other urban areas in Mexico are also growing at a rapid rate. At the other
extreme, more than one third of the population live in some 20,000 rural
localities with populations of 300-2,500 where the prospects for productive
employment and a decent income are poor.
2.06        Social infrastructure in these areas is minimal.  According to
recent estimates, more than half of rural families had no access to potable
water. Excreta disposal systems meeting acceptable sanitary standards were
generally not available. Thus, while the national average infant mortality
rate is about 60 per 1,000 live births, the infant mortality rate for rural
areas is significantly higher, over 100 per 1,000 in some zones. Gastro-
intestinal diseases, pneumonia, and malnutrition are the principal factors
leading to infant and preschool deaths.
B. The PIDER Program - Evolution of the Program and Process
2.07        In the early 1970s, Mexico began to focus on the productive
potential of the poorer segments of the rural population, while continuing
to support large-scale agriculture. Up to this time, the principal public
investment effort for rural development was sporadic and consisted primarily
of small-scale irrigation and credit. However, these efforts were not
coordinated nor well focused.  In 1973, the Government shifted its strategy
to focus on small, well-defined regions, called micro-regions, where a number
of complementary programs could be coordinated through planning and
supervision. The Investment Program for Rural Development (PIDER) was
established to channel resources for this purpose.
2.08        When PIDER began, its principal strategy for alleviating rural
poverty was through social infrastructure investments. By 1975 it had
evolved into a more comprehensive program aimed at increasing productive
and production-support activities through selected packages of goods and
services, while continuing to improve social infrastructure. The goals
were to increase levels of employment, incomes, and living standards in
poor rural areas with productive potential.
/1 The term ejido is derived from the Spanish equivalent of the village
"common". In present Mexican law, the ejido is basically a group of
families with joint--and inalienable--rights of usufruct to land.
The head of such a family is called an ejidatario. Ejidos accounted
in 1979 for 43%, or 60 million hectares, of Mexican farmland.



- 4 -
2.09        PIDER is a coordinating program, not an institution, and as
such was never intended to make investments nor provide servi^es directly.
Rather, it is an administrative and financial mechanism, within the Secretariat
of Programming and Budgeting (SPP), which serves to coordinate the rural develop-
ment activities of a number of separate agencies. In PIDER I and II, SPP staff
assigned to PIDER planned the package of investments for each micro-region.
Each executing agency was then requested to make those investments which
fell under its purview, and was provided with PIDER funds in order to carry
out the work.
2.10        In 1978, the Government, with Bank assistance, undertook a mid-
term evaluation of PIDER I (Annex 1). The report examines the progress
of PIDER I as representative of the program as a whole, on the sub-project,
component, and organizational, or institutional, levels. The report was
done only four years after the beginning of PIDER, before most of the productive
investments had reached full development. Therefore, most of its conclusions
regarding impact are qualitative. The few cases in which an attempt is made
to quantify results are indicative of the results of a small sample of sub-
projects rather than of program-wide impact. The summary in this section and
in Annex 1 is largely based on the mid-term evaluation and should not be
interpreted as a final evaluation of PIDER's impact.
2.11        In general, the early-financed components which required least
organization of beneficiaries and coordination among agencies for their
operation (e.g. roads, electrification, schools) were most likely to be
operating with few problems. Those requiring a high degree of beneficiary
training or cooperative management (e.g. large livestock, rural industries,
water supply) were more likely to be functioning at an unsatisfactory level.
2.12        Productive Projects.  Productive investments under PIDER I
emphasized small-scale irrigation (the largest volume of productive projects)
and, to a lesser degree, livestock development. Small-scale irrigation
works have usually resulted in significant increases in production and income
and created additional jobs, most of which were taken by landless individuals.
In general, livestock projects financed under PIDER I had a relatively small
effect on production, income and permanent employment. A number of livestock
units have encountered serious technical and organizational problems and
have not resulted in the expected benefits. In general, problems have been
encountered because large units with 15-50 participating farmers have been
proposed and the organizational problems have proven too difficult. In other
cases, livestock programs attempted were not fully appropriate on technical
grounds; the lack of alternative technologies hampered planners who sought to
increase farm productivity. These difficulties were compounded in those cases
where construction or installation of infrastructure was carried out by one
agency, while credit for stocking or assistance for making the project
productive was provided by another.



- 5 -
2.13        Changes are being made in PIDER's livestock program to take
advantage of experience--both the problems mentioned above and the successful
cases. Smaller units are being promoted; greater emphasis is being placed on
the generally more successful small-stock projects (goats, pigs) and api-
culture, where organizational problems are fewer. Technical support has been
increased through major improvements in the Secretariat of Agriculture and
Water Resources' Rainfed Agricultural Districts Program which will help ensure
the viability of future livestock investments and strengthen the involvement
of credit institutions (paras 4.40 and 4.48). Better criteria for design and
operation of livestock sub-projects are being developed and would be applied
under the project (para 4.40).
2.14        Productive Support.  The quality and impact of productive support
programs (e.g. extension, beneficiary organization, roads, and credit) under
PIDER has been uneven but improving. Agricultural extension, for example,
has been strengthened by the reorganization of the service along the lines
of the training-and-visit system through the rainfed agricultural districts
(DT) program (para 4.51). The DT program has been particularly useful in
promoting involvement of agricultural credit institutions in development
programs of SARH, thereby ensuring that credit is provided to complement
extension and infrastructure programs. The rural roads component of PIDER
has accounted for the bulk of productive support investments. CIDER evaluations
found that road investments typically resulted in 70% reduction in cost of
goods transport, making feasible the use of purchased inputs and the marketing
of agricultural surplus. Roads have also had an important, but transitory
effect in generating jobs.
2.15        Social Infrastructure.  Benefits from social infrastructure are
difficult to quantify, but evidence is that communities have valued access
to potable water, schools, and health clinics. Improved health services may
have substantial financial benefits, since very often sickness is the major
cause of family financial problems. Easier access to water has improved
family health, enabling many families to start small irrigated vegetable
gardens, and giving women additional time to devote to raising of small
animals or employment in cottage industries. Water supply projects have, in a
large number of cases, been troubled by poor operation, inadequate maintenance,
and breakdown of the systems. Inadequate attention was devoted to the organi-
zation and training of villages to operate and maintain the systems once
installed and beneficiary communities did not fully understand that collection
of adequate water charges was necessary to pay for the upkeep of the system.
Both PIDER and the Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP)
have taken corrective measures. Beneficiary participation in the planning of
water supply projects has increased with the decentralization of micro-region
planning (para 2.17); maintenance and operation requirements are reviewed with
the beneficiaries before works are started; and local management--State
Potable Water Boards--has been strengthened. With these measures, there has
been a marked improvement in the performance of potable water systems. This
trend would be consolidated under the proposed project (para 4.77).



2.16        Based on the results of this evaluation, SPP began to consider
several important strategy questions regarding the future of the PIDER program.
In a report to President Lopez Portillo dated January 18, 1980, SPP proposed
that rather than continue to expand geographically at a rapid rate, PIDER
should be reprogrammed and "consolidated" in the existing 119 micro-regions.
The report also noted the need for a new strategy that would eliminate a
number of problems, including:
(a) a lack of capability for multi-year investment programming
at the state level;
(b) poor individual project preparation, particularly in the
productive sphere;
(c) limited beneficiary participation, especially in program and
project selection; and
(d) poor federal- and state-level inter-agency coordination.
2.17        It was decided that several of these problems could best be
solved by giving state governments a larger role in the planning and implementa-
tion of PIDER activities and by assigning responsibility for coordinating the
programming process at the micro-regional level to state-level SPP staff. The
result of this decision was the decentralized programming process which was
initiated in 1980 to plan investments for PIDER III. The process began at the
community level,. Groups of beneficiaries in the communities included in the
micro-regions were asked by SPP micro-regional coordinators to draw up lists of
community needs and to arrange those needs in order of priority. The line
agencies, assisted by state-level SPP planners, were then asked to draw up
investment plans which would meet those needs. Coordination and guidance was
provided by SPP state delegates. Overall state policy for the rural sector was
provided by the State Committee for Development Planning (COPLADE). This was a
much more complex planning process than that attempted in PIDER I and II (para
2.09) and in all other rural development projects in Mexico. As already mentioned,
however, the extra effort is providing dividends in the form both of greater
commitment from the communities, the state and municipal authorities, and the
agencies, and of plans tailored more closely to beneficiaries- felt needs.
2.18        It was recognized that to successfully carry out this process,
considerable guidance would be required, so that plans prepared in the states
would be consistent with PIDER objectives and with sound planning methodology.
The following steps were taken:
(a) a policy paper outlining new directions and objectives for
the PIDER program was prepared;



- 7 -
(b) a manual for multi-year micro-regional programming was
issued jointly by PIDER and the Research Center for Rural
Development (CIDER). This manual was revised after the
first eight micro-regions had been programmed;
(c) a series of regional meetings of senior federal- and state-
level SPP staff was held to discuss aspects of the consoli-
dation process and to review the proposed programming
methodology;
(d) a strategy which proposed the sequential reprogramming of
investment plans for the existing (119) micro-regions
was developed. This strategy was to begin in March 1980
with a "pilot" phase involving eight micro-regions in four
states. The lessons learned from this pilot phase of the
reprogramming would be incorporated in a second phase
involving, first, nine micro-regions in the same states,
and then all the other states with PIDER micro-regions; and
(e) a series of seminars were held with Mexican officials at
various levels and Bank staff, both in Mexico and at the
Bank, to review the reprogramming process. The Bank was
asked to participate in the financing of the investment
programs in seventeen micro-regions.
2.19        The appraisal mission reviewed the reprogramming process and
investment plans produced in the four pilot states: Sinaloa, Yucatan,
Zacatecas and Guerrero (see para 3.01 for selection criteria). The state
delegations then modified the plans on the basis of this review. The
revised drafts of the plans were finally revised jointly by the state
planners, SPP federal planners and members of the Bank mission. This
assured that each met a set of standard requirements. The final stage of
this process was a comprehensive review of the programming manual by the
planners who had used it. The manual was then thoroughly revised on the
basis of this feedback, so that it could be used in the next phase--
reprogramming of all the other PIDER micro-regions nationwide.
2.20        At the same time that the work of reprogramming was going on,
institutional changes were effected on a higher level as well. The role
of PIDER in relation to other rural investment programs was re-examined,
and in July 1980, it was decided to incorporate PIDER into the investment
plan called Master Coordination Agreement (CUC), while retaining PIDER's
distinctive characteristics. Agreements which define procedures, function,
and scope of the two programs are being signed by the state Governors and
representatives of the federal Government. Within SPP, revised regulations
were prepared and approved, which defined the responsibilities of the separate
SPP directorates concerned with PIDER and the relationship among them.



2.21        The past year, then, has been one of reassessment for the PIDER
program. The program-s objectives have been clarified, the strategies for
reaching those objectives have been redesigned, and the new strategies have
been put into action.
C. Recent Development Programs in Mexico
Master Coordination Agreement (CUC)
2.22        CUC was begun in 1977 as a centrally coordinated system of
development works programmed and implemented by the state governments.
Funding for these infrastructure works is drawn from federal revenues (60%),
state revenues (30%), and village cash, materials, or labor (10%). From
1977 to 1980, the principal works financed were roads, schools, water
supply systems, and public buildings.
General Coordination of the National Plan for Depressed Areas and
Marginal Groups (COPLAMAR)
2.23        COPLAMAR was begun on a limited scale in 1977 to coordinate
activities of line agencies in areas with very limited productive potential,
where programs such as PIDER and Rainfed Districts had little chance
of success. The focus of public investments channeled through COPLAMAR
was on directly improving living conditions and social services, such as
health and education. In 1979, President Lopez Portillo approved expansion
of the program. The sectors to be financed are: rural roads, potable
water, health clinics, housing improvements and rural stores.
Rainfed Districts Program
2.24        Initiated in 1977, the purpose of the Rainfed Districts Program
under the General Directorate of Rainfed Districts and Units (DGDUT) of the
Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources (SARH) is to coordinate all
productive agricultural activities receiving Government support to 123
Rainfed Districts. About 70% of Mexico-s farm families live in rainfed
areas, but these areas have received only 10% of all public investment
funds for the agricultural sector since 1945.
2.25        In recent years, there has been a gradual policy shift in Mexico
away from large-scale irrigation projects and toward the promotion of rainfed
agriculture. The reasons for increased attention to rainfed areas are
threefold. First, in areas of adequate rainfall (above 700 mm annually)
there is still important potential to increase productivity of rainfed crops
and livestock through application of available technology, and to increase
cropped areas through improved drainage. The average costs of bringing about
these changes in some cases are lower than those of large-scale irrigation.
Second, investments in rainfed agriculture are an important means to redress
the social imbalance now evident in Mexican agriculture; while rainfed



- 9 -
areas produce only 50% of the value of agriculture output, their population
includes 87% of all farmers. Third, the Government has been particularly
concerned about the steadily increasing imports of basic staples, due to
inefficient domestic production of these commodities; nearly 80 percent of
rainfed cropped area is given to maize and bean production, but yields have
grown very little in the past decade.
2.26        The Rainfed Districts program aims primarily to reinforce
extension, research, and credit services and to provide a structure to
ensure participation of farmers, the various Government agencies, and the
banks to coordinate the planning (carried out in a bottom-up process,
beginning at the community level), budgeting, and execution of local
development activities. More than twenty agencies are directly or
indirectly involved in promoting agricultural production in rainfed areas.
Mexican Food Plan (SAM)
2.27        In March 1980, the President of Mexico announced a new Mexican
Food Plan--a national policy calling for self-suffiency in corn and beans
by 1982, and elimination of net imports of these staples by 1985. The
policy also calls for special emphasis on improving the declining nutrition
levels of some 35 million poor in both rural and urban areas. The work to
date has involved analysis of the problem and identification of "Critical
Nutrition Zones". These are defined as areas "in which the federal Government
should take the responsibility for supplying food--either gratis or at
subsidized prices--in order to eliminate malnutrition in those groups whose
alternatives for improvements are severely limited." In the urban areas,
the critical zones include the "belts of poverty" surrounding the major
cities, areas in which inadequate distribution of food and low incomes make
malnutrition a serious problem. In the rural areas, the zones include
primarily areas where agricultural productivity is either limited by soil
and terrain or is highly vulnerable to drought.
2.28        The strategy called for by SAM emphasizes an expansion of applied
research, credit, use of inputs (especially fertilizer and insecticides),
technical assistance, annual increases in the guaranteed prices of maize
and beans, and readjustment of the price ratios between maize and beans
and competing crops to encourage cultivation of these staples.
2.29        On the side of food marketing and distribution, the SAM strategy
for eliminating malnutrition consists of nutrition education campaigns and
provision of more facilities for the distribution of food through a network
of small stores. Together with the Rainfed Districts program, PIDER will
play an important role in helping to achieve SAM's goals, particularly in
the seventy or so PIDER micro-regions which wholly or partly coincide with
"critical zones" indicated by SAM.  Of the thirty programs financed by
PIDER, thirteen contribute to achievement of the goals stated in SAM.



- 10 -
III.  THE PROJECT AREA
A. Selection of States
3.01        The project area is comprised of seventeen micro-regions located
in the states of Sinaloa, Zacatecas, Yucatan and Guerrero (see map). The
four states were chosen to represent widely different socio-economic conditions
and ecological areas of the country, as well as for the experience of their
planning personnel and institutional capability (para 3.02 (d)). Sinaloa, a
highly productive state on the central Pacific coast with very uneven income
distribution, is characterized physically by sharp transition from coastal
plain up through the hills and valleys of the piedmont and into the cool-
temperate, jagged sierras. In Zacatecas, a poor state in the central zone,
plains predominate, interspersed with steep ridges and valleys. Scattered
throughout the state are extensive areas of moist organic soil, though
rainfall is generally low. Yucatan, located in the tropical southeastern
part of the country, has a very limited resource base with which to support
its very rapidly growing population. The state presents a unique combination
of conditions: dry flatlands of shallow soil with severe rock outcroppings
undermined by subterranean caverns and pools, where the Mayans farm the
milpa system/l. Guerrero, a poor, mountainous state, presents additional
contrast, with a highly productive tropical coastal belt, bordered by steep
foothills where maize and associated crops are cultivated. This area is
followed abruptly by the low mountains, where the economy is based on
coffee. In the lower portion of the state, the coastal belt extends inland
to include extensive areas of fertile soils where flood control and drainage
are major agricultural problems. Basic information on the micro-regions is
presented in Table 3.1, page 11.
B. Micro-regional Selection Criteria
3.02        Micro-regions are comprised of three or more adjacent municipalities
within a state.  In the four states described above, micro-regions were selected
on the basis of:
(a) productive resources, but lack of infrastructure to exploit
this potential;
(b) a high proportion of the economically active population with
total net annual family income less than 500 times the
regional minimum daily rural wage (para 4.07);
(c) size of target villages ranging from 500 to 5,000 inhabitants,
but including smaller communities when these involve the
grouping of small, scattered villages below 500 in population;
(d) capability of the state-level staff for programming,
coordinating, and executing multi-year investment programs.
/l Slash-and-burn mixed maize and bean cultivation using planting sticks, with
a fifteen-year fallow per½d following each season of production, so that
cultivated area shifts each season.



Table 3.1
Project Area, Population, Agricultural Area, Average Farm Size and Rainfall
Infant           Agricultural Area             Avg.                   Average
Population                        Morta-                     Cropped             Farm                   Annual
Area       Nbr. of                              Literacy       Ratye       Total   Irrigated   Rainfed        Size/b    Grazing/c  Rainfall
State/Miicro-Regian              _(kin_    Iuiiis          Ttal       7. Rural      RateLa      Rate -    00ha)   (000 ha)   (000 ha)    (ha)'-   (000 ha)               (mm
Sinaloa
Norte de Sinaloa                      14,500          3       167,000         85        (7874       (223.5       175.6          2.1       79.1          4.0       170         700
Mocorito-Badiraguato-Culiacan         12,000          3       137,000         88        C           C            108.3          7.7       77.2          3.9       300         600-1,000
Guerrero
Atoyac                                 6,114          4        178,000        60         55.4       (279 5        95.0         4.4         54.0         3.8        70         900-2,400
Costa Chica                            4,309          7       164,000         80        (           C            210.0         8,3        53.2          6.7       110       1,000-1,200
Zacatecas
Tlaltenango                            4,000          8         73,000        76        (81.23      (514 9        68.5         3.2        42.3          5.7       200         700-  800
Valparaiso                             9,000          5       143,000         69        (           (            152.7         5.7       110.7          8.3       374         700-  800
Yucatan
Sur                                    9,000         8         96,000         23        (73.78      (471.2       108.4         6.4        80.3         32.9/d    100          900-1,200
Litoral Norte                          8,024         12       118,500         37        (           (            244.6         2.4       193.3         27.7       218         800-1,300
Source: Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting
/a Literacy rate (per 1,000 persons) and infant mortality rate (per 10,000 live births) are figures for each state and are used as indlcative figures for the micro-regions.
/b Average farm size estimate based on cropped area divided by 80% of the rural population (90% for Yucatan and Costa Chica) times 5.6 (number of family members).
/c Mission estimates.
/d Actual area under production-in any given year is farm area divided by 15, due to the prevalence of the milpa system (page 8, footnote 1) which requires fifteen
years of fallow following one year of production.
Tecembvr 1, 1980



- 12 -
3.03       A description of the principal characteristics of the eight micro-
regions/i chosen for review during appraisal appears in Annex 2. The map
shows the location of these and the remaining micro-regions. The remaining
nine micro-regional plans would be assessed by the Bank prior to disbursement
for those areas. Since, for the first eight micro-regional plans, the
mission's focus was to appraise SPP-s and line agencies capability to program
and implement the project, the assessment of the remaining nine micro-
regional plans would be based mainly on the following criteria: (a) whether
the revised national guidelines for programming were followed and satis-
factorily incorporated into the micro-regional programming process;
(b) analysis of the sub-project investment proposals as spelled out in the SPP
planning manual; and (c) a minimum economic rate of return of 12 percent for all
productive sub-projects.
3.04        During negotiations, agreements were reached that the
plans for the nine remaining micro-regions would be appraised by the Bank
as a condition for disbursement for those areas. These plans will be assessed
against the criteria outlined above.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
Project Objectives
4.01        According to the PIDER Policy Paper of July 1980, PIDER's central
objective is to promote a self-sustained development process within rural
communities, and to guarantee access to goods and services which provide
adequate living standards. The main objective of PIDER III is to increase
the development impact of the existing program by supporting Government's
efforts to expand and intensify activities in seventeen selected micro-regions
located in four states. The purpose of specific PIDER III investments would
be:
(a) to increase production of basic foods;
(b) to generate higher productivity and per-capita income levels;
(c) to raise the level of employment in rural communities; and
(d) to improve living conditions in terms of nutrition, health,
education, housing and drinking water.
/1 The eight that were appraised: Mocorito-Badiraguato and Norte
in the state of Sinaloa; Valparaiso and Tlaltenango in the state of
Zacatecas; Costa Chica and Atoyac in the state of Guerrero; and Litoral
Norte and Sur in the state of Yucatan. The remaining nine are: Cosala-
Elota and Sur in the state of Sinaloa; Rio Grande, Fresnillo-Calera and
Pinos in the state of Zacatecas; Oriente in the state of Yucatan; and
Costa Grande, Ometepec and Cuauhtemoc in the state of Guerrero.



- 13 -
4.02        In addition, PIDER III would contribute to:  (i) improved micro-
regional investment planning; (ii) increased beneficiary participation
in the program planning, execution, and evaluation stages, and in the
operation and maintenance of infrastructure through the framework set up by
the Rainfed Districts program; (iii) increased effectiveness of extension,
credit, and farmers' organization, through the framework set up by the Rainfed
Districts program; (iv) provision of resources for feasibility studies for
productive investments and for applied research; (v) provision of resources
for training and specialized technical assistance; and (vi) improvement of the
monitoring and evaluation system.
Project Strategy
4.03        As described in Chapter V, a major shift in PIDER's overall
program strategy was effected in 1980. Increased participation and authority
was assigned to state governments, and assisted by SPP state delegates and
planners, the state governments are now responsible for the programming,
budgeting, and coordination of PIDER development investment programs. The
governments have proposed three-year investment plans based on needs
identified by the rural communities and line agencies. Revision and
detailed specification of actual investments will be done on a yearly basis.
Benefiting communities will continue to participate in this revision
process.
4.04        PIDER's strategy for achieving the specific goals outlined in
para 4.01 is embodied in the investment plans. Each objective and the
investment strategy designed to achieve it is presented below:
(a) To increase food production, directly productive and
productive support investments are planned to improve
productivity of both crops and livestock. These would
include improvement of land and stock, infrastructure for
irrigation, soil and water conservation, perennial crop
development, installations for livestock raising, and
credit, as well as extension and applied research.
(b) To generate higher income, in addition to the investments
listed above, improvement of rural roads and marketing
facilities will enable beneficiaries to retain higher
levels of economic surplus. Credit and technical
assistance for development of rural industries would
generate both income and additional employment.
(c) All of the productive investments mentioned above would
contribute to raising the level of employment in rural
areas. In addition, all investments in infrastructure
(whether productive, support or social) would offer
employment to beneficiaries in the target group during
- the period of construction.
(d) Nutritional levels, health, and living conditions would
be improved through increased incomes, increased



- 14 -
availability of food, provision of basic infrastructure
for health services and potable water, nutrition and
health education, elementary education, and provision of
materials with which beneficiaries can improve their
housing and the public areas of their villages.
4.05        In order to assure that the benefits of these actions reach
the target group, emphasis would be placed on continuing applied research
and farm trials for improved technical packages, particularly for rainfed
food crops. Strong emphasis would also be placed on strengthening the agri-
cultural extension and credit delivery systems in the micro-regions, in
conjunction with the SARFL Rainfed District Program. Finally, beneficiary
participation would be required in sub-project design, implementation and
evaluation.
4.06        The objective of building the capability of agencies involved
in planning and implementing the PIDER program would'be achieved through
the following strategy:
(a) continued guidance for the programming of development
plans at the micro-regional level;
(b) provision of funds for additonal staff, equipment, and
training to improve the ability of executing agencies to
reach a larger proportion of the target group;
(c) provision of funds for personnel, data-processing hardware
and software, and technical assistance to improve the
effectiveness of the monitoring and evaluation system of
PIDER (paras 5.12-5.16).
Implementation Strategy and Distribution of Responsibilities
Project Beneficiaries
4.07        Project activities would be directed to individual beneficiaries
or groups of beneficiaries with a total family net annual earnings less
than 500 times the relevant regional minimum daily rural wage./l About 50% of
the rural population is classified under this category. In view of the
diversity of the proposed activities (paras 4.14-4.17), a given group of
rural population may be expected to benefit from more than one project
activity. Some 1.2 million families or approximately 80 percent of the target
population would be expected to benefit from project activities over a three-
year period, either through increased income and employment opportunities
generated or from the use of the infrastructure built.
/1 Minimum daily wages are established annually by the Government for 111
regions of the country and, for 1980, these range from US$3.91 in the
poorest states (Guerrero, Zacatecas) up to a maximum of US$7.39 in the
northern border states. The unweighted national average minimum daily
rural wage is US$6.65.



- 15 -
Beneficiary Contribution
4.08        Beneficiary participation has begun at the planning stage for
PIDER III.  In each locality meeting selection criteria within the project
micro-regions (para 3.02), communities were called together to discuss their
investment needs with representatives of line agencies and of state and
municipal governments. It was on the basis of these discussions that the
eight micro-regional plans were produced. This same procedure will be
followed for the remaining nine micro-regions and as sub-projects are specified
in detail (Chapter IV.B. Detailed Features).
4.09        Beneficiaries will be responsible for contributing part of
the cost of investment under some components. Beneficiary contribution may
be in the form of labor, draft power, machinery, or materials. The proportion
of sub-project cost to be borne by beneficiaries will be agreed upon by
beneficiary groups and implementing agencies.
Line Agencies
4.10        In PIDER III, line agencies would be responsible for drawing
up investment plans assisted by SPP state staff and in consultation with
communities and state and municipal government representatives (paras 2.17
and 4.08). As under previous PIDER projects, execution of the various
project components would continue to be the responsibility of the existing
line agencies and state governments. To strengthen PIDER's integrated and
decentralized approach to planning and execution of project implementation,
working agreements with main implementing agencies at the national level
outlining individual agency responsibilities and mechanisms for inter-agency
coordination have been drawn up and signed.
Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting
4.11        SPP would be responsible for overall project strategy by assisting
the state government, the Rural Development Sub-committees, and the COPLADE
in: (a) establishing investment priorities and identifying target groups;
(b) ensuring consistency between the programs proposed for the micro-region;
(c) releasing the PIDER funds authorized in the budget for each region according
to the progress of program execution; (d) monitoring the compliance with
norms, procedures, and guidelines established by SPP at the federal level; and
(e) supervising implementation of PIDER components at the local level.
4.12        Since there is some geographical overlap between Rainfed Districts
(though not the Bank-assisted areas of this program) and PIDER III micro-regions,
and since DGDUT objectives coincide with those of some PIDER III components
(especially small-scale irrigation, and soil and water conservation), special
attention would be given to coordinating mechanisms between SPP and SARH in
the project areas. Coordination of planning and implementation of project
activities in the agricultural sector would be the responsibility of the
Rainfed District Chiefs. The SPP coordinator for micro-regions which coincide
with or overlap Rainfed Districts would be a member of both the Executive and
Technical Committees organized by the Rainfed Districts Program, and the Rainfed



- 16 -
Districts Chief would be a member of the Regional Sub-committee for Rural
Development (Chapter V - Organization and Management). The Technical
Committee would review all agricultural and livestock projects to be carried
out in the micro-regions prepared by SARH, BANRURAL, CONAFRUT and other
agencies, prior to presenting the projects to SPP for funding.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.13        The monitoring and evaluation system would be strengthened to:
(a) report physical progress of project activities; (b) detect and
expeditiously resolve implementation problems; (c) evaluate on an ongoing
basis the impact on beneficiaries and their communities of project activities;
and (d) execute in-depth studies of constraints to development, as well
as unexpected positive effects arising in the course of project progress
(paras 5.12-5.16).
Project Composition
4.14        It should be noted that the figures for investment presented
throughout are estimates, to be revised according to annual plans, in which
actual sub-projects are enumerated and specified. The proportion of project
costs allocated to various components is therefore indicative and flexible.
Directly Productive Investment (61%)
4.15        The project would provide support for:  agricultural development,
including small-scale irrigation facilities; soil and water conservation;
land rehabilitation; rainfed grain production; and fruit production development;
livestock development, including stock and pasture improvement, infrastructure
installation for large and small stock, and beekeeping; physical infrastructure;
husbandry and management advice; fishery development; rural industry,
including mainly preservation, processing, or transformation of agricultural
primary products; development credit for small-scale irrigation, livestock,
fruit production, and small-scale industry.
Productive Support Investments (26%)
4.16        Investments would be provided for expansion of the extension
service and technical assistance, applied on-farm research and demonstration
plots, marketing and food distribution facilities, construction of rural
roads, rural electrification, farmers and beneficiaries- organization and
training, and feasibility studies.
Social Infrastructure (10%)
4.17        The project would support improvement or construction of primary
schools and of basic community health facilities; provision of materials for



- 17 -
self-help village housing and improvement projects; nutrition, including
installation of home gardens and raising of small livestock, nutrition and
health education, and surveillance of the nutritional status of the
beneficiaries.
Project Organization and Management (3%)
4.18        Support would be provided for the organization and management
of the project, including establishment of a Micro-Regional Rural Development
Office at the micro-regional level; technical consultants; training for SPP
and for executing agencies' staff; incremental funding for staffing state and
micro-regional offices; and monitoring and evaluation. (See Chapter V for
complete discussion).
B. Detailed Features
B.1 Directly Productive Investment (61%)
4.19        Investments would be made to expand rural infrastructure
facilities and to stimulate increases in agriculture, livestock, forestry,
and rural industries' output in the selected micro-regions. These invest-
ments would be complemented by productive support investments, without
which implementation constraints would arise.
Agricultural Investments (25%)
4.20        Small-scale Irrigation (11%).  The project would develop small
irrigation schemes, consisting mainly of construction of tubewells or small
dams with related distribution systems.  Some 17,000 ha of irrigated land
would be developed at an average cost of US$2,000 per ha, and would directly
benefit some 6,600 families. The development of small earth dams'would be
concentrated in the mountainous regions of Zacatecas, and the medium to high
altitude ranges of Sinaloa and Guerrero. In the lowlands and plains of all
four states, investments would concentrate on tubewells and small pumps.
4.21        The small irrigation works would be carried out by the Directorate
of Hydraulic Works for Rural Development (OHDR), through its regional offices,
which have gained substantial experience with these types of works under
previous Bank loans (PIDER I and II and Small-scale Infrastructure). Prior to
construction, technical and socio-economic feasibility studies would be
carried out for each proposed irrigation project in accordance with existing
OHDR guidelines, which are satisfactory to the Bank. Once the feasibility
studies have been carried out, sub-project designs and estimates of costs and
benefits would then be prepared by OHDR. Typically, OHDR enters into agreements
called "Acceptance Acts" with the local users' association, specifying what
works and services OHDR will provide, and what are the conditions to be met by
users concerning operation and maintenance of the works, water use, and use
charges. The users' association selects the tariffs that best suit its own
needs.



- 18 -
A.22        Under the existing Federal Water Law, the Government is permitted
,o recover a maximum of 30% of the. cost of small-scale irrigation works,
but farmers are obliged to pay the full cost of operation and maintenance.
Under the PIDER program, the policy of SPP and SARH is to achieve higher
effective levels of capital investment cost recovery by limiting public
investment and encouraging farmers to participate in financing infrastructure
through long-term credit. SPP and OHDR would verify with banks that the
ejidos and/or individuals comprising the users association are eligible for bank
credit before starting construction. Construction of sub-projects is
usually done by contractors following the usual tendering procedures of
SARH, with supervision of the contractor by OHDR field engineers.
4.23        During negotiations agreements were obtained that:
(a) within each sub-project, the maximum grant per family would be US$15,000;
and (b) the Government or its agencies would clear with the credit institutions
that users would be eligible for bank credit before starting the construction of
works.
Soil and Water Conservation (6%)
4.24        The main focus of the resource conservation program would be
on the development of a production-oriented soil and water conservation
system. The emiphasis would be on helping farmers to use engineering measures
to improve the productivity of their own land and to reduce the impact of
drought. To insure adherence to the new focus of the soil and water conser-
vation program, PIDER III-financed soil and water conservation works would be
restricted to agriculturally productive soils with slopes less than 6%.
4.25        The PIDER III project would support the construction of some
48,000 ha of soil and water conservation works in four micro-regions,
benefiting 8,900 families. The project would concentrate on: (a) introduction
of water harvesting practices; (b) construction of flat channel terraces
to collect and hold water for soil infiltration and contour furrows with
level beds combined with small reservoirs to be used for supplemental irrigation
by gravity or sprinkler systems; (c) land clearing--rock, tree, stump, and
brush removal--which would increase the cultivable area and improve cultivation
practices; (d) testing of techniques for conserving soil and water on a
small watershed basis; and (e) provision of funds for improvement of technical
assistance.
4.26        Because conservation works would be carried out at the farm level,
approval for construction would be sought from the farmers or ejidatarios
in the selected areas. Project off-farm costs would be borne by project
funds but some on-farm costs of labor, draft power and some machinery would
be contributed by the farmers themselves (para 4.28). Beneficiary farmers



- 19 -
or ejidos would be responsible for the maintenance of work. Beneficiary
contribution to investment costs would be agreed upon by the SARH representatives
and the farmers. As conservation works lead to demonstrated increased productivity,
all operation and expansion costs would be financed under medium- or long-term
credit from local banks under normal bank terms, repayable by farmers.
4.27        Survey:, demonstrations, preparation of conservation plans,
and construction w  ld be the responsibility of the General Directorate
for Soil and Water Conservation (DGCSA) within SARH. The Rainfed Districts
Program would be responsible for the identification of works needed, the
selection of farmers or farmers' groups, and for coordination of conservation
activities at the micro-regional level. All soil and water conservation
activities would be approved by the Rainfed Technical Committee.
4.28        During negotiations agreements were obtained that:
(a) benefiting farmers or ejidos would provide a fraction of the on-farm
costs, the exact proportion to be agreed upon by farmexs and SARH; (b) technical
plans would be prepared prior to construction and discussed with the farmers
concerned to reach a formal agreement on the work to be done; and (c) grant per
family would not exceed US$10,000.
Crop Development (8%)/l
4.29        Seasonal Crops.  The major agricultural activity in the micro-
regions selected for PIDER III is the production of seasonal crops. The
principal crops are maize, beans, sorghum, sesame, and groundnuts. Other
crops are grown in lesser proportions. Most seasonal crops are grown
under traditional cultivation practices and rarely receive modern inputs
such as improved seeds, fertilizers, fungicides, and pesticides. As a
result, yields are low. Maize yields average around 700 kg/ha in the
rainfed areas. Under irrigation, seasonal crops do receive higher levels
of input use and yields are substantially higher in such cases. PIDER III
would provide investment funds for land clearing and preparation,
upgrading of soils (paras 4.24-4.28), extension and adaptive research (paras
4.51-4.54). Agricultural inputs would be financed through seasonal credit
provided by BANRURAL or commercial banks. About 76,000 ha of maize would be
cultivated under the project. At full development (by Year 5) yields of
maize are expected to increase from the present level of about 700 kg/ha
/1 This percentage of project cost applies only to fruit, coffee, and
coconut development. Cost allocation for seasonal crop development
is covered under specific sub-components (irrigation, soil and water
conservation, extension and adaptive research).



20 -
to 1,800 kg/ha under rainfed conditions on farms receiving direct investments
for crop development and 3,500 kg/ha under irrigation (Annex 4).
4.30         Fruit Crops (4%).  The project seeks to promote the development
of the micro-regional fruit production potential in seven micro-regions.
Under PIDER III funds would be provided for the establishment of new irrigated
orchards of avocado, mango, peaches, plums, and citrus. PIDER would finance
small-scale irrigation syslems (paras 4.20 to 4.23), land improvement and
preparation, nurseries, agricultural chemicals, and fertilizers associated
with the start-up period, and maintenance during the first two years of the
pre-productive period. About 14,000 ha would be planted with fruit,
benefiting about 6,200 families at an estimated average cost of US$965 per ha.
4.31         In addition, PIDER would also finance the rehabilitation of
deciduous fruit trees such as apples and peaches in Zacatecas. It would
include elimination of old trees, replanting, pruning, control of pests
and diseases, and fertilizers. Acquisition of farm machinery and equipment
would be financed under development credit (paras 4.48 to 4.50). The benefi-
ciaries would provide all labor inputs for orchard establishment and maintenance.
For most fruit, yields in Year 5 of orchard development are expected to
be sufficient to cover all operating costs, and at that time, the farmer
would be responsible for assuming all production costs (Annex 4) through his
own resources or production credit financed by BANRURAL or private banks.
Farmers would be organized into groups to facilitate provision of inputs and
technical, financial, and marketing assistance.
4.32         Technical assistance to farmers and communities would be provided
by a team of technicians (working through the National Fruit Development
Commission (CONAFRUT)). The team would draw extensively on the support of
SARH Rainfed District extension agents located in each micro-region. The
project would strengthen the existing CONAFRUT technical assistance program
in the project area by increasing the number of technical staff and by
providing vehicles and equipment.
4.33         Perennial Crops (4%).  The principal crops in the Guerrero micro-
regions are coffee and copra. Coffee is an important smallholder cash
crop in the higher areas of Guerrero, and yields of coffee in the micro-
regions are 300 kg/ha. Under the coffee rehabilitation sub-component, yields
are expected to rise to 900 kg/ha by Year 12 of the project. Investment
financed by the project would be used to rehabilitate about 14,260 ha of
existing plantation, at a cost of about US$800 per ha. The Mexican Coffee
Institute (INMECAFE), responsible for the design and implementation of this
sub-component, has developed and tested a technical package to improve coffee
production. This package includes improved weed control, pruning, rejuvenation
through coppicing, replanting of unproductive trees with improved varieties,
providing better shade trees, fertilizing, and disease and insect control.



- 21 -
Development credit would be available for the purchase of fertilizer, agri-
cultural chemicals, and equipment. About 3,000 families would benefit from
this sub-component.
4.34        INMECAFE technicians, together with the farmers, would design
the rehabilitation program for each farm. INMECAFE would be responsible
for input supply and would process and market a substantial portion of the
incremental coffee production.  INMECAFE would also be responsible for the
development of new processing plants and improvement of reception marketing
centers. In additon, the INMECAFE technical assistance system would be
strengthened through the recruitment and training of new staff, agronomists,
and agricultural technicians (peritos), who would work with farmers in close
coordination with the SARH extension agent.
4.35        Copra is a major cash crop along the coast of Guerrero, produced
mostly by ejidos.  Many groves of coconut palm consist of old trees, however,
and productivity has been declining in recent years.  The Coconut Promotion
Agency of Guerrero (IGC) would be responsible for planning and implementing
the activities of this sub-component. Prior to the implementation of this
component the IGC would define with the farmers a complete work plan and
would submit it to the Rainfed Technical Committee for revision. The IGC
has an ongoing research program, is adapting a number of new varieties of
coconut palm to specific local conditions throughout the state, and has
developed locally adapted technical packages. The project would finance the
cost of rehabilitating or replacing about 13,000 ha of coconut palm at an
estimated average per-hectare cost of US$807. Investment items would include
land improvement and preparation, removal of unproductive trees, planting
materials, fertilizers, agricultural chemicals and hired labor.
Livestock Development (19%)
4.36        Beef and Dairy /1.  Under PIDER I and II, relatively large-
scale beef and dairy development received the major share of livestock
investment support, with sheep, goat, pork, and poultry development receiving
relatively minor attention. Past failures to manage large-scale units
efficiently have led to a reorientation. Under PIDER III, beef and dairy
development support would be aimed at improving existing units, and at
establishing units on a smaller, less expensive and more manageable scale
than under PIDER I and II. New livestock sub-projects would be installed
mainly in those ejidos where most of the land is useful only for grazing--
mainly because of unreliable rainfall, unsuitable terrain, or poor soils--
and where Government initiative would be justified because the farmers, due
to their limited resources, are not eligible for commercial credit and
therefore could not finance the infrastructure works themselves. Once such
works were constructed, however, beneficiaries would finance the acquisition
of livestock under the ongoing credit programs for low-income producers.
(See para 4.09 for beneficiary contribution to investment cost.)
/1 Though 15% of total project cost has been allocated for beef and dairy
development, this allocation is flexible pending the outcome of studies
described in para 4.40.



- 22 -
4.37        Three types of activities would be supported under this sub-
project: (a) dual purpose beef/dairy raising on improved pastures in Guerrero
and Yucatan; (b) beef fattening on improved pastures in Yucatan, Sinaloa,
and Zacatecas; (c) beef breeding in Zacatecas based on range grazing supplemented
by areas of rainfed pasture or irrigated forage. PIDER III would provide
funds for: (a) land clearing, pasture establishment or improvement, and
fencing; and (b) construction of watering areas and handling facilities.
Investment credit for stock purchase and working capital would be financed
under BANRURAL, Agriculture Trust Fund of the Bank of Mexico (FIRA) or private
banks. A total of US$49 million would be invested in beef and dairy cattle
during the life of the project, benefiting about 10,700 families. Average
estimated cost per family would be US$4,600. Assistance for beef and dairy
sub-projects would be provided mainly by SARH Rainfed Districts staff.
PIDER would provide funds for: training of farmers and organization of
producers, project design, implementation, and supervision.
4.38        Small Stock.  This sub-project would be aimed at increasing
the productivity and profitability of existing household pig and poultry
units, and to introduce some larger units in those areas where markets
are nearby and purchased feeds are readily available. SARH would give
major emphasis to increasing technical assistance. PIDER would provide
funds for the infrastructure needed for the different classes of livestock,
feed storage, water and handling facilities. Purchase of breeding stock
and working capital would be provided through BANRURAL and private banks,
to be rediscounted by FIRA. Some 5,200 families would benefit from this
sub-component at an average cost of US$2,000 per family.
4.39        Beekeeping.  The demand for honey from the urban areas
of Mexico plus increasing potential for exportation has stimulated great
interest in communal beekeeping operations. Such operations begun under
PIDER I and II have been quite successful and extremely profitable for the
beneficiaries. In each micro-region, PIDER would fund about 400 new beekeeping
installations, including starter hives, which would benefit about 3,000
families. Costs would average about US$730 per family and US$5,500 per
unit. SARH would be responsible for providing technical assistance on an
ongoing basis.
4.40        During the first year of project implementation, SPP would carry
out a full review of selected livestock and beekeeping schemes financed
under ongoing PIDER projects, with the purpose of developing appropriate
design of livestock infrastructure, composition and management of livestock
units, and criteria for the evaluation of such units. Aspects of such
projects which require evaluation include: forms of organization, management
of the enterprise, financial accountability, and internal regulations of
individual ejidos covering rights of participating ejidatarios and of the
ejido as a whole. The outcome of this review would guide SPP in the selection
of livestock sub-projects to be provided under PIDER III.
4.41        During negotiations agreement was obtained that:  (a) SPP would
submit to the Bank terms of reference for the review mentioned in para 4.40 and



- 23 -
interim design guidelines based on experience PIDER I and II;(b) these interim
guidelines would be applied until the final, agreed guidelines became available,
up to a maximum of US$3 million disbursement; (c) prior to disbursement, beyond
the initial US$3 million, a Mexican technical pannel would carry out the review
and develop and furnish to the Bank adequate design guidelines and evaluation
criteria to be systematically applied in the financing of livestock sub-projects;
and (d) a ceiling of US$10,000 per family would be placed on investment made
through direct grant by PIDER.
Forestry (2%)
4.42        The project would support reforestation and afforestation invest-
ments of about US$2.3 million in selected ejidos in the states of Sinaloa and
Zacatecas. These activities would be an expansion of the work the forestry
service is already carrying out with ejidos or associations of ejidos. For the
execution of these sub-projects the forestry service would cooperate with the
extension and soil conservation services and obtain the necessary participation
agreement with the farmers or group of farmers. All investment costs would be
financed under the project, but farmers would contribute labor.
Fishery (1%)
4.43        The project would attempt to increase the efficiency of production
and marketing of fish in two micro-regions of Guerrero and Litoral Norte
in Yucatan. Project actions would include: (a) construction of small docking,
reception, processing, and marketing facilities; (b) establishment of training
courses and extension activities; and (c) installation of repair shops with
the necessary tools and equipment. Investment for the acquisition of boats,
outboard engines, fishing gear, coolers, and working capital would be made
available to cooperatives through FIRA, private banks or the Fisheries
Bank (Banco Nacional de Fomento Pesquero (BANPESCA)).
4.44        In the state of Yucatan special emphasis would be given to technical
assistance and training for fishermen, with an initial focus on organization
of fishermen, in-the-field training for management of cooperatives, and
promotion of associations for independent fishermen. Practical training would
include promotion and demonstration of improved technology, to be carried out
by intermediate-level fisheries technicians. Managerial and administrative
training would be offered by existing staff of the Department of Fisheries
to literate fishermen, preferably leaders of cooperatives and/or associations.
The Department of Fisheries (Productos Pesqueros Mexicanos) would be responsible
for the implementation of this component. About 800 fishermen will benefit
through this sub-component.
Rural Industries (3%)
4.45        PIDER II financed development of a broad variety of rural
industries. A special evaluation of this component carried out in 1978 showed
rather disappointing progress. A significant number of the sub-projects
experienced difficulty in getting started, stemming from both technical and
managerial problems. In the judgment of the appraisal mission, however,
development of small industries which would complement the principal agricul-
tural and livestock activities of one area is important to the overall develop-
ment of that area; they have the potential for overcoming marketing and other
bottlenecks as well as improving incomes and employment. For this reason,



- 24 -
PIDER III would continue to finance development of a very limited range of
rural industries, specifically, those which process or utilize commodities
produced by PIDER III-financed productive activities within the micro-region.
In areas where forestry development is being financed, for example, such
industries would include sawmills and factories for the production of tool
handles, produce crates, and simple furniture. Other industries include
processing plants for production of fruit preserves, honey packing, and fish
and meat quick-freezing. Development of such industries would facilitate the
marketing of perishable produce (especially important in the case of fruits,
vegetables, and fish), would provide additional employment within the micro-
region, and would increase the value added of agricultural prcducts exported
from the micro-region.
4.46        Project actions would focus on:  (a) rehabilitation of existing
enterprises which would include: in-depth analysis of the causes for the
irregular operation of those units and selection of remedial measures;
provision of technical assistance on preventive maintenance; product design;
and quality control; development of standards and surveillance systems;
establishment of procedures for the transfer of legal ownership of the
enterprise to the beneficiaries or to the ejidos; (b) development of new
enterprises which would include: provision of technical assistance for the
identification of enterprises and for project preparation (feasibility
studies, selection of technology, construction and implementation); improve-
ment of executing agencies' capabilities in providing management, technical,
and marketing assistance and supervising the enterprise; deve'lopment of
studies to identify possible linkages between small-scale enterprises and
larger industries for sub-contracting and marketing arrangements; (c) training
of entrepreneurs which would include: promotion of campaigns to provide
information on the rural industries program (its objectives, policies,
participation, procedures, benefits, incentives and training opportunities);
establishment of demonstration units and service workshops in the micro-
regions; establishment of technical expert teams to provide assistance to
field staff and to entrepreneurs; utilization of experienced entrepreneurs to
provide practical advice on project identification, operation, and marketing
problems; and (d) provision of credit.
4.47        The Agro-Industries Department of SARH would be responsible for
the execution of this program. In addition to the actions outlined in
para 4.46, SPP would coordinate with SARH to: (a) limit the Government
agencies involved to those which have demonstrated technical expertise;
(b) assure that feasibility studies are done more thoroughly; (c) assure
that technical assistance is available to beneficiaries throughout the life of
the enterprise investment; and (d) check that credit for working capital
and initial operating costs is provided for the enterprises by a financial
intermediary before approving the PIDER investment. In view of the difficulties
encountered under PIDER II with the rural industries component (para 4.45),
the project would provide technical assistance to assist the Government of
Mexico in developing the capacity to implement this type of project.
Development Credit (11%)
4.48        Under the first and second PIDER loans, medium- and long-term
farm development loans were made by public (BANRURAL) and private banks
to small farmers under criteria established by the Agricultural Trust Fund in
the Bank of Mexico (FIRA), and supported by the Bank in several credit and



- 25 -
agricultural development projects. Medium-term credit was not, however,
restricted to supporting infrastructure investments made by PIDER. Under
PIDER III, medium-term credit requirements would be planned and authorized as
an integral part of the technical feasibility study (expediente tecnico) for
each directly productive sub-project: a restriction would thus be introduced
that medium-term credit financed under the PIDER III loan would be provided to
beneficiaries of PIDER-financed directly productive projects. Other requests
for medium-term credit from farmers in the project area would be channeled to
the appropriate bank and financed from normal Government sources or from the
Bank's sixth or seventh agricultural credit loan, as appropriate. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that this restriction would be applied for
PIDER III.
4.49        Under PIDER III, farm loans would be made by commercial banks and
the public National Rural Credit Bank (BANRURAL).  The majority of BANRURAL's
clients are low-income small farmers and ejidatarios. The Government would
finance this farm lending through two trust funds. One is FIRA, which would
rediscount eligible commercial bank loans. The other is a trust fund under
BANRURAL. Its loans would be rediscounted through FICAR (Trust Fund for
Credit to Irrigated Areas). Medium-term credit reimbursable from the proposed
Bank loan would be used for breeding stock; farm machinery and equipment for
irrigation and land preparation; pasture establishment and orchard maintenance
during the initial pre-productive years; and rural industries. During nego-
tiations, it was agreed that agreement between the Government and the Bank
regarding interest rate structures would be a condition of disbursement for the
credit component.
4.50        No short-term credit for farm production inputs would be financed
under the PIDER III loan. Short-term credit would be provided by BANRURAL to
PIDER beneficiaries, using BANRURAL's standard criteria and procedures,
for provison of short-term credit, which are the same as those applied under
the Bank-assisted Rainfed Agricultural Development Project (PLANAT).
B.2 Productive Support Investment (26%)
Extension and Applied Research (8%)
4.51        SARH, through the Rainfed Districts Program, would be responsible
for all extension programs in the project areas with the assistance of
CONAFRUT, INMECAFE, and IGC, in fruit-, coffee-, and coconut-producing
areas respectively. Activities would include: (a) promotion of technical
packages composed of improved cultivation practices, modern inputs, and
more efficient animal husbandry techniques; (b) linking of cooperating
farmers with the applied research program; (c) supervision of on-farm trials
and demonstration; (d) encouragement of farm families to utilize Government
services and to take an active role in development activities; (e) assistance
for the organization of farmers for credit and input provision; and
(f) promotion of nutrition education, household gardens, raising of small animals,
and sanitation and housing improvements through a small group of extensionists
from SARH's Home Education program. The PIDER III project would finance: (a) the
incremental cost of agricultural extension agents, livestock extension agents
and home economist agents; (b) training (by SARH) of extension staff in technology
and extension methodology; and (c) vehicles, field equipment, and materials.
4.52         In order to ensure that PIDER objectives would be actively pursued
by SARH, a formal agreement has been signed by SPP and SARH Rainfed District



- 26 -
program specifying the exact responsibilities of each agency and the terms of
coordination between them, as well as the coordination mechanisms within SARH
among the Rainfed District Program and the other programs (Department of Livestock,
Soil and Water Conservation, Irrigation). The agreement specifies, inter alia,
that:
(a) SPP would allocate PIDER funds for agricultural and
livestock investments for the micro-regions through
the Rainfed District system.
(b) All agricultural and livestock-related investments
would be approved by the Rainfed Districts Technical
Committee and that District Chiefs would have
responsibility for PIDER-funded extension staff.
(c) The SPP micro-regional coordinator would actively
participate on Rainfed District Exequtive and Technical
Committees and that the Rainfed District Chief would
participate in the Regional Rural Development Sub-
committee.
4.53        Adaptive research would be carried out by interdisciplinary
production-systems research teams from the National Institute for Agricultural
Research (INIA) and the National Institute for Livestock Research (INIP).
These teams would work in farmers' fields, following the model pioneered by
the Puebla Project and subsequently refined through Plan Mexico, Plan Tlaxcala,
PRONDAAT, and the PRODERITH programs. This system requires three basic
components. First, existing production activities must be studied to determine
input-output relationships, and to identify the farmers' limitations in terms
of available resources. Then, the new technologies from the research centers
must be field-tested in order to assure that their requirements fall within
the farmer's set of limitations. If requirements are too great or if the
packages are not financially attractive to farmers (taking risk into consider-
ation), then further modifications must be made.
4.54        The emphasis of applied research would be linked to identification
of farming systems applicable to specific localities and environmental
circumstances; within this frame INIA would initially focus on varietal
selection, disease and insect control, crop response to fertilizer, effects of
soil and water management, pasture improvement, and fodder production. In
assembling packages of recommendations, attention would be given to both
production and consumption considerations: labor, capital, and risk
constraints within the small-scale mixed production system would be taken into
account, as would alternatives for achieving family nutrition adequacy from
consumption of home production and from cash proceeds of crop sales. INIP
would direct its attention toward improved pastures and ruminant nutrition,
breed improvement, reproductive efficiency, and disease control.
4.55        Marketing (1%).  This component would improve marketing of farm
surplus through the Rural Warehouse System (BORUCONSA), a marketing subsidiary
of the National Popular Subsistence Company (CONASUPO). BORUCONSA compensates
the ejidatarios for transportation and shelling services and also lends them
bags. The cost of these services amounts to about US$2.50/ton. BORUCONSA has
beguun tr- integrate its operrtions with those of other agencies at the state



- 27 -
and local levels by signing agreements and developing coordinated work plans
with SARH and BANRURAL. Under the project, support would be provided for
the construction of grain storage warehouses with a total capacity of about
26,000 tons and about 50 small rural stores.
4.56        Beneficiary Organization (3%).  Farmer organization and agrarian
reform activities were financed under PIDER I and II primarily through the
Secretariat of Agrarian Reform (SRA). In most micro-regions, however, the
more politically urgent land tenure issues often took precedence over the
organizational activities. With the recent creation of the Directorate of
Rural Community Promotion in SPP, more emphasis will be given to the
organization of beneficiaries for all phases of the PIDER program.
4.57        Under PIDER III, SPP would establish in each micro-region
promotion teams, which would cooperate with SARH teams and other line agencies
to: (a) increase communities' awareness of development opportunities and
of government services; (b) promote beneficiary parteicipation in all phases
of the PIDER program; and (c) act as liaison between beneficiaries and
implementing agencies regarding community reaction to project actions.
SRA would be responsible for the resolution of land tenure and land titling
issues. The clarification of such issues would facilitate the organizational
dimensions of the project and make possible the provision of credit for
productive activities. A training program would be developed for SPP's
diffusion/promotion teams, SARH, and SRA teams. The training program would be
discussed with the Bank prior to its implementation.
4.58        The project would provide SPP, SARH, and SRA with financing for:
(a) incremental technical personnel; (b) support equipment (vehicles, furniture,
and field equipment); and (c) training for both field staff and supervisors.
An agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been reached by SPP and SARH
outlining the specific implementation responsibilities and the condition under
which the PIDER program would finance farmers' organization activities. Legal
aspects relating to land titling and land use would be carried out by SRA.
4.59        Rural Roads (5%).  During the period of 1973-1980 the PIDER
program allocated 16.2% of its total investment in the rural roads program.
Construction was mainly devoted to three types of roads: secondary roads,
feeder roads, and roads to production units. All three forms employed local
labor. Heavy machinery was also utilized. Under PIDER III, particular
attention would be given to: establishing work schedules and appropriately
timed budget authorizations to avoid conflict with seasonal agricultural labor
requirements; increasing the effectiveness of the community construction and
maintenance committees; and improving inter-agency coordination.
4.60        Activities financed by the PIDER III project would include:
(a) construction or rehabilitation of 1,030 km of roads (all-weather standard),
benefiting about 240 communities and 120,000 inhabitants; (b) generation
of paid temporary labor through implementation of (a); and (c) promotion and
support for village-based committees for road construction and maintenance.
The rural roads component would support PIDER's development objectives by
facilitating delivery of agricultural inputs and transport to marketing centers
of food or cash crops, by improving beneficiaries' access to food stores,
education, and basic health services, and by providing employment for local
inhabitants. The Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP)



- 28 -
would be responsible for the preparation of the Dreliminary pkan based on
rural communities  petitions, proposals submitted by local officials, and
SAHOP's overall program.  The proposals would be screened through technical
and socio-economic studies./l Final selection of plans would be based on:
community commitment and avallability of local labor; concentration of
productive investments in area; potential for incremental production; and cost
per kilometer and per beneficiary. The preparation of the final road program
for the PIDER micro-regions is a shared endeavor between state-level SPP and
SAHOP staff, and submitted to the Sub-committee for Rural Development and the
Committee for the Promotion of Socio-eccnomic Development of the States
(COPRODES) for state approval. The plan is forwarded to SPP headquarters for
final approval and budgetary authorization.
4.61        SAHOP would be responsible for the implementation of the rural
road component, following its normal operation procedures, which are acceptable
to the Bank. In executing the program, SAHOP would utilize labor-intensive
methods wherever technically and economically feasible./2 The major constraint
to achieving this last objective is that the PIDER program is penetrating
increasingly difficult terrain. SAHOP would use its own equipment or hire
local contractors- services when necessary. Construction and maintenance
would be supervised by SAHOP's Zonal Office. Assisted by SPP promotion teams,
SAHOP would set up and supervise local committees, which would play a major
role in both construction and maintenance activities by recruiting local labor
and supervisory assistance. Road maintenance cost would be covered wherever
possible by the local committees, and where this is not feasible, SAHOP would
be responsible for maintenance.
4.62        During negotiations, it was agreed that SPP and SAHOP would monitor
the rural roads construction and maintenance program with the methodological
support of the SPP state evaluation and monitoring unit. Both SPP and SAHOP,
assisted by CIDER, would develop effective analytical tools to evaluate the
longer-run effects of the labor-intensive road program developed under PIDER II
and III, and its specific impact on the quality of life in rural Mexico. It was
further agreed that SPP's impact analysis of the PIDER program would give specific
attention to the long run impact of the labor-intensive road construction program.
/1 The socio-economic surveys focus on community characteristics (number of
households, etc.), economic activity in the community and surrounding
areas, infrastructure endowment, availability of Government services, and
quality of life in the community. The technical investigation examines
the road alignment, terrain conditions, construction requirements, local
availability of construction materials, and related factors.
/2 Labor-intensive construction methods are generally used when the earth-
works are less than 5,000 m3/km. A mix of labor and equipment is used
when the volume of earthworks, especially of difficult materials, is in
the range of 5,000-8,000 m3/km. Equipment-intensive techniques are
justified when the volume of earthworks is substantially higher, when
labor availability is low, and/or when the soil is mostly rocky



- 29 -
4.63        Rural Electrification (5%).  The project would supply electricity
to some 86,000 inhabitants living in some 280 rural communities at an average
cost of US$175 per beneficiary. The total to be invested is the equivalent of
US$15 million, of which 10% will be for the electrification of directly
productive investment and the rest for servicing the population. The Federal
Electricity Commission (CFE) would be responsible for planning, building,
operating, and maintaining electricity-generating and distributing facilities.
PIDER finances only connections to main cables and lines to schools, other
public facilities, and enterprises; major additions to the national grids are
not to be made under PIDER auspices./l Where such large investments are
needed to implement the PIDER electrification projects, the outlays are made
through CFE-s regular budget.
4.64        Rural electrification plans of micro-regions are prepared jointly
by state CFE and SPP staff.  Final selection of plans is based on a number
of socio-economic factors. First, eligible villages should have a population
of at least 500 inhabitants and an access road. Villages with less.than
500 inhabitants would be eligible either if they are located near a main
power line or if electricity is needed for directly productive investments.
Second, beneficiaries must have sufficient resources to contribute to invest-
ment costs in cash or labor, to bear the cost of internal household wiring and
connection to the main line, and to pay user charges for operation and
maintenance. These are the normal selection criteria used by CFE, and they
are satisfactory to the Bank. Once selected, the final plans would be subject
to approval by the Sub-committee for Rural Development and COPLADE. SPP
would monitor and evaluate the implementation and impact of this component.
4.65        Productive Projects for Women (1%).  Of the 2,600,000 Mexican
women employed in 1975 (27% of the total labor force), 55% worked in the
industrial and commercial sectors, 35% in the service sector, and 10% in
the agricultural sector. The small number of women working for wages in
agriculture reflects the fact that it is precisely in rural areas, where
the majority of Mexico's poor live, that the greatest demand and least
supply of remunerative employment opportunities exist, particularly for
women. Although various Government agencies carry out programs for peasant
women, very few focus on technical training or employment opportunities.
4.66        The Mexican Government proposes to include in PIDER III a
productive activities component for rural women. PIDER funds would be
used for:
(a) Studies to identify: (i) the types of productive
projects currently operating in Mexico that have proven
most successful in providing earning opportunities for
women; (ii) types of local resources (human, financial,
and physical), existing in the micro-regions, that
would provide potential for such projects.
/1 The ceiling for single project investment under PIDER is about
US$.5 million.



- 30 -
(b) Training for women, communities, and staff of Government
agencies to promote acceptance of a greater number of
women in productive sectors.
(c) Training and technical assistance for specific productive
projects financed under PIDER III. This would include
assistance in setting up effective cooperatives and
marketing organizations as well as training in technical
skills.
4.67         SPP, assisted by selected agencies, would be responsible for
the design, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of the component.
Feasibility and Socio-Economic Studies (3%)
4.68        SPP has recognized the need to improve ttie quality of feasibility
studies for investments in such areas as irrigation, soil and water
conservation, livestock, small-scale industries, marketing, and rural roads,
and to emphasize more careful analysis of the studies before construction
begins. After a thorough review of the feasibility studies prepared by its
Project Preparation Teams for investments now being implemented, SPP is in
the process of establishing more stringent standards and procedures. Its
plan is to have the feasibility studies themselves carried out by the relevant
Government agencies or by consultants, and to devote resources to recruiting
more experienced staff to analyze and evaluate the results and reliability
of the studies.
4.69        PIDER III would also include a component to support socio-
economic studies at the community level. The purpose of these studies would
be to: (a) assess the development potential and socio-economic structure
of communities within the micro-regions; (b) assist in the identification
of productive sub-projects; (c) provide baseline data (including data on
nutritional status) against which to measure the impact of PIDER-supported
activities; (d) promote pilot testing of alternative sectoral strategies in
such areas as livestock, water supply, and marketing; and (e) identify
requirements for specialized technical assistance or training for new or
existing sub-projects (particularly under the rural industries and livestock
components).
4.70        Agreement was reached at negotiations that a proposal outlining a
specific work program for socio-economic studies would be agreed upon by the
Government and the Bank as a condition of disbursement for this component.



- 31 -
B.3 Social Infrastructure (10%)
4.71        Education Facilities (3%).  The PIDER I and II effort to renovate,
construct, and furnish primary-level classrooms would be continued under
PIDER III. The Administrative Committee for the Federal School Construction
Program (CAPFCE) has been the agency responsible for implementing this
component and has demonstrated an impressive capability to construct well-
designed, low-cost school buildings, often in isolated areas. The project
would improve or construct some 2,200 primary-level classrooms accommodating
some 14,500 students. New classrooms would cost about US$4,400 each, including
furniture. CAPFCE would coordinate with the Ministry of Education in selecting
classroom locations to ensure adequate provision of teaching materials and
staff. In carrying out the program, CAPFCE would continue to require beneficiary
ejidos and communities to provide a site, and would encourage local contribution
of labor and building materials (normally equivalent to about 20 percent of the
total costs) as well as lodging for the school teachers.
4.72        Health Facilities (2%).  Under PIDER III funds for rural health
facilities would be provided for construction or rehabilitation of about
140 rural health clinics or centers. These would provide services to about
225,000 people. This component would be implemented in the communities
selected for implementation of the nutrition and/or water supply components.
The Secretariat of Public Health and Assistance (SSA) would supervise
construction and would either execute the work or hire contractors. The
beneficiaries would be organized to monitor the efficiency of the health!
nutrition and water-supply services. Staffing, training, and supervision
for these clinics or centers would be the responsibility of SSA.
4.73        Nutrition Component (2%).  Under PIDER III, the directly
productive components would increase food production in the micro-regions
(Chapter VII). In keeping with SAM policy, the nutrition component has been
included in order to assure that this food surplus is directed to improving
the nutritional intake of malnourished rural families. Under this component,
funding would be provided for:
(a) supplementary home food production--home gardens and
small-animal raising;
(b) installation of CONASUPO rural stores to increase
access to food staples at reasonable prices;
(c) promotion of education of beneficiaries to awareness of
proper nutritional balance, and to possibilities for
increased nutritional efficiency in purchase, preparation,
and consumption of foods;
(d) establishment of a nutritional surveillance system to:
identify malnourished groups, to prevent serious malnutrition
by early referral to the Health System of those clearly
at risk; monitor seasonal fluctuations in food production
in order to anticipate food shortages and identify areas
where assistance will be required;



- 32 -
(e) evaluation of the impact of the PIDER program on the
nutritional status of beneficiaries.
The community organization efforts planned as an indispensable prerequisite
for other PIDER III activities are also essential to achievement of nutrition
component goals. Wherever beneficiary organization is undertaken under
any PIDER III component, this same organization would be used for implementation
of nutrition component activities.
4.74         Implementation of the component would utilize the capability
and experience of institutions already active in the states and in the micro-
regions (such as SARH, CONASUPO, and health agencies), but would require in
some cases reorientation of their current activities. The nutrition component would
first be implemented on a pilot basis in selected communities in the states of
Zacatecas, Guerrero and Yucatan. A detailed plan of operations, including specific
targets, has been prepared by SPP and executing agencies.
4.75        Water Supply (3%).  Under PIDER III, about 150 water supply
systems would be constructed, rehabilitated, or expanded, and would benefit
some 62,000 persons. Selection of communities would be based on: (a) size of
community, with priority given to those with more than 500 inhabitants;
(b) location of complementary project investments; (c) technical feasiblity of
simple, low-cost systems with minimum maintenance problems; and (d) community
willingness to contribute a portion of the labor costs and to establish
village construction and maintenance committees. Three different types of
systems would be utilized: gravity systems, pump systems, and hand-dug wells
with handpumps. These systems would include collective hydrants or household
connections, depending on topographical factors and population dispersion.
Household connections would only be installed on a cost-recovery basis, but
the design of some of the systems would allow beneficiaries to install household
connections at a future date.  Each community would be responsible for the
operation and maintenance of its system.
4.76         Implementation of the component would be the responsibilty of:
(a) SAHOP (design and construction); and (b) the State Potable Water Board
(JEAP) (operation and maintenance). The state and regional offices of SAHOP
would supervise all construction and would either directly execute the works
or hire the necessary contractors. JEAP, through its regional units, wouid
organize the village construction and maintenance committees and provide
all necessary technical and administrative assistance to them. These committees
would be responsible for a broad range of operation and maintenance activities,
including the monitoring of water use and the establishment and collection
of user charges for operational and repair expenses.



- 33 -
4.77         Self-help/l.  The project would provide support for self-help
construction activities at ejido and village level. Material costing a
maximum equivalent of US$65 per capita (1980 price) would be made available
to beneficiaries, who would develop projects mainly on a group basis. All
labor would be provided by beneficiaries. Self-help sub-projects would
include a variety of activities such as workshops, vegetable gardens, fencing
for children's playgrounds and community centers.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01        Chapter II.B outlines recent institutional changes which will
affect the implementation of PIDER III. As in PIDER I and II, project
actions would be implemented by existing agencies, under the national
coordination of the Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting. According
to the recent changes, responsibility and authority for program implementation
would be assigned at the federal, state, micro-regional, and beneficiary
level as outlined below.
Organizational Structure
5.02        Federal Level.  General PIDER programming policy is developed by
the Directorate of Regional Programming of SPP within the Subsecretariat
of Programming (Chart 1, page 38). Supervision and control of PIDER invest-
ments are the responsibility of the General Directorate of Integrated Rural
Development Programs (DGDRI) (within the Subsecretariat of General Coordina-
tion of State Delegations), which has the following functions: (a) to esta-
blish policies, provide guidelines and support for the preparation, implemen-
tation, and monitoring and evaluation of integrated rural development programs;
(b) to promote coordination among the various line agencies participating in the
PIDER program; (c) to establish budgetary procedures, allocate funds, and
authorize expenditures; and (d) to review the micro-regional investment programs.
The DGDRI is supported by two directorates: (a) Directorate of PIDER Operations,
which supports the states' efforts for micro-regional medium-term and annual
programming and budgeting, reviews the plans, and monitors their implementation;
and (b) Directorate of PIDER Promotion and Support for Rural Communities, which
is responsible for assisting the state-level SPP staff in the identification and
promotion of productive projects, socio-economic studies, beneficiaries training,
technical assistance to productive projects, and promotion of farmers' and
beneficiaries' organization.
5.03        State Level.  It is at the state level that the most significant
change in the concept of PIDER will be manifested. The state government's
participation in the program has been considerably enhanced by PIDER's
incorporation into the CUC scheme. Coordination of sectorial development
programs at the state level is handled by a State Economic Development Planning
Committee (COPLADE). The COPLADE includes the heads of all federal and state
agencies operating at the state level, under the chairmanship of the Governor
/1 Cost of this component is estimated at US$1 million, less than 1% of
base cost.



- 34 -
(Chart 2, page 39). The Committee normally meets every other month, but it can
meet more frequently if necessary. COPLADE's functions are to: (a) establish
guidelines for investments in the state, determine strategies, and define priorities;
(b) coordinate all agencies involved in all development programs in the state and
resolve conflicts or overlap of authority among agencies; and (c) approve project
plans, annual budget proposals and progress reports. The SPP delegate is the
Technical Secretary of COPLADE.
5.04        Within each COPLADE a Rural Development Subcommittee is being
formed. These committees will be concerned not only with PIDER but with
all other programs channeling funds to rural areas, and will have the
authority to formulate policies and strategies of integrated rural develop-
ment for the state. They will be chaired by the Governor or his representative,
with the SPP state delegate acting as Technical Secretary. Representatives of
the federal and state agencies directly involved in rural development programs
will sit on these subcommittees. The primary functions of the subcommittees
are to:
(a)  coordinate the work of participating agencies and provide
linkages among rural programs;
(b)  provide the linkage between annual operating plans and
medium-term strategies; and
(c)  monitor the programs, including physical and financial
progress, and evaluate their impacts.
5.05        The SPP state delegation is divided into five units:  (a) programming;
(b) budgeting; (c) monitoring and evaluation; (d) national information system;
and (e) administrative support. The shift of responsibility from SPP to the
COPLADE will be most apparent in the coordination of agency activities and in
supervision and control.  Since the COPLADE is under the Governor's chairmanship,
it is perceived as the more appropriate body to exercise authority over state
agencies. SPP will retain the responsibility for monitoring and evaluation,
and in carrying out this function, will coordinate with the supervision and control
unit of the State Government. The national information system, which is in the
process of being computerized, will be used by SPP to help identify and allow
follow-up on problems in implementation.
5.06        Micro-regional Level.  A Development Subcommittee will be formed
in each PIDER micro-region prior to project implementation and will be chaired
by a representative of the state government. The SPP micro-regional representative
will be the Technical Secretary. The group will include mayors (presidentes
municipales), representatives of the rural communities selected by the
beneficiaries, and technicians of the state and federal implementing agencies
working at the local level. Functions of the Subcommittee will include:
(a)  short- and medium-term programming for the micro-region;
(b)  facilitating coordination and execution of the PIDER
micro-regional program components; and
(c)  monitoring of program performance and supervision of
program operation, with special emphasis on beneficiary
participation.



- 35 -
5.07        In each micro-region, SPP would establish a Micro-regional Rural
Development Office (MRDO) as an innovative element in the PIDER structure.
The office would be mainly responsible for: (a) assisting in the coordination of
PIDER actions among the participating agencies in the project area; (b) provision
of elements of strategy for the annual and multi-year plans; (c) promotion of
local participation in the establishment of development priorities; (d) execution
of community socio-economic studies; and (e) monitoring of project progress.
Typically, the MRDO would include five members, two from the SPP promotion team,
two in charge of community socio-economic studies, and one in charge of the
monitoring of project progress. The MRDO would work under the supervision of the
SPP micro-regional representative. The representative should be a professional
with previous field work and administrative experience, and would be responsible
for programming, implementing, executing, and monitoring the PIDER program in
the micro-region. In addition, he would assist the state government in the
organization of the Micro-regional Rural Development Subcommittee and would be
the Technical Secretary of this committee. He would also be a member of the
Technical and Executive Committees of the Rainfed District Program.
5.08        As under PIDER I and II, execution of the various components of PIDER
III will be the responsibility of the appropriate line agencies (paras 4.20 to
4.80). Coordination of planning and implementation of project activities in the
agricultural sector would be the responsibility of the Rainfed District Chiefs.
Hence, the role of the representative in this sector would be limited to that of:
(a) providing a liaison with the chief of the Rainfed District and its units; (b)
ensuring consistency between the programs proposed in this sector and those of
other agencies such as SAHOP and CFE; and (c) assisting the Rainfed District
Program in its relationships with local communities (especially in the establish-
ment of the communities' development priorities). Administratively, the MRDO
would be part of the SPP state delegation and the representative would answer
directly to the state SPP representative. He would establish close links with
and receive support from the programming, supervision and control units. The
micro-regional representative would not have financial responsibility for the
project; this responsibility belongs to the Governor's office. Because of the
key role of the MRDO at the local level, the full staffing of the MRDO in the
eight micro-regions already appraised would be a condition for loan effectiveness.
5.09        Participation of Beneficiaries.  A methodology for the promotion
of community participation in the planning phase of the PIDER program has
been recently established by SPP and the Research Center for Rural Development,
CIDER. This methodology has been applied in the programming of the
micro-regional plans. A series of meetings held in the communities allowed
a dialogue between groups of beneficiaries and technicians to take place.
Through this process, beneficiaries were able to indicate their priorities



- 36 -
for types of projects to be implemented in their area. The SPP diffusion/
promotion teams located within the MRDO would be responsible for the continued
promotion of beneficiary participation in the planning, execution, and
evaluation stages of PIDER III (para 4.57).
5.10        Staff Development and Technical Assistance.  Under PIDER III
emphasis would be placed on training of staff directly involved in rural
development programs (principally SPP and SARH staff). SPP proposes that the
following types of training program be financed under the project:
(a)  Seminars for SPP's state and federal staff and line
agencies' staff, aiming at: (i) discussions of the
revised PIDER programming methodology; and
(ii) sharpening of staff awareness of the role of
PIDER in the perspective of an overall rural develop-
ment effort. The seminars would combine the discussion
of normative conceptual elements (e.g. theoretical
foundation of the programming methodology) with the
analysis or evaluation of micro-regional cases based
on staff's experience with the PIDER program.
(b)  Training Courses (two weeks to three months), for
personnel at the federal and state levels directly
involved in the designation of rural development
policies; project preparation and evaluation;
analysis of micro-regional investment plans;
preparation or analysis of productive projects, or
feasibility and communities' socio-economic studies;
and community and farmers' organization. The General
Directorate of Rural Development would be responsible
for the preparation of these training programs, which
would be carried out by specialized institutions such
as SPP's Training Center (Centro de Capacitacion para
el Desarrollo, CECADE), CIDER and others. The presen-
tation to the Bank of a plan for the training program
would be a condition of disbursement for this component.
In addition, the project would provide funds for twelve man-months of local or
expatriate consultants who would assist SPP in the development of the PIDER
program. The consultant's terms of reference would be presented to the Bank
prior to the signing of his contract with SPP. The estimated average cost
per man-month of consulting services would be approximately US$8500 for fees plus
US$1200 for travel and subsistence.
Project Implementation
5.11        Execution of the various project components would be the
responsibility of existing line agencies rather than a special project
authority (see Annex 3 for list of agencies and their functions). An
integrated approach, stressing inter-agency cooperation, particularly in the
planning and execution phases of project implementation, would be utilized.
A detailed description of how each component would be implemented is included
in the description of the components (Chapter IV.B).



- 37 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.12        Monitoring of project effort and evaluation of project impact
would be the responsibility of SPP at the micro-region, state, and federal
level. In collaboration with the participating agencies and assisted by CIDER
and/or consultants, SPP would establish an information system for:
(a) reporting physical progress of project activities; (b) evaluating the
impact of these activities on an ongoing basis; and (c) identifying short-
comings in performance in a timely manner.
5.13        At the micro-regional level, the monitoring of agricultural
activities would be carried out by Rainfed District staff, using the
methodology and system assigned for the Rainfed District program. This
information would then be transferred to the SPP Micro-regional Rural
Development Office. At the state level the SPP Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
would analyze the information collected at the micro-regional level and
carry out impact evaluation of those PIDER activities which would help to
readjust the sub-projects or find alternative strategies or programs for the
micro-regions.
5.14        At the national level, the SPP Directorate of Operations would
execute comparative analysis of PIDER's micro-regional evaluations, and
provide technical support to the state and micro-regional units in such fields
as sample design, survey format, statistical analysis, data processing and
software, and analytical methods. It would also identify studies designed to
investigate and suggest alternative solutions to specific project-related
problems or issues arising during project execution. When necessary, SPP
would contract specialized services.
5.15        To implement the monitoring and evaluation system, the
project would support the incremental cost of staff salaries, material,
equipment for decentralized data procesing, and technical assistance.
5.16        At negotiations agreement was obtained that as a condition for
loan effectiveness, SPP would prepare a detailed proposal for the monitoring
and evaluation system for the project, including terms of reference, staff
requirements, staff requirements, methodology, indicators for evaluation, and
procedures for adjusting project strategy to monitoring results, and that this
proposal would be mutually agreed upon by SPP and the Bank. Assurances were
obtained that SPP would maintain an adequately staffed organizational unit to
carry out the monitoring and evaluation of the project. In addition, assurances
were obtained that SPP would: (a) furnish to the Bank semi-annual reports, of
scope and format to be mutually agreed upon, on project physical and financial
progress, including the findings of the monitoring and evaluation units; and (b)
prepare within one year after project closing date a project completion report,
which would include, in addition to physical achievements, an evaluation of
project impact, in a format and scope mutually agreed by the Government and the
Bank.



Chart 1
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER IlI
Organization at Federal Level
Secretariat of
Programming and Budgeting
Secretary
Internal
Administration
Programming
Under-Secretariat        Under-Secretariat         Under-Secretariat             Under-Secretariat         eneral Coordination     General Coordination      General Coordination
of                        of                       of                      of Procurement         of National Statistics,         of State                 of Control
Programming                 Budget            l     Evaluation                   and Auditing         . Geographic and In            Delegations             and Management
Programming  Budget       Evaluation                   and Auditing           ~~~~~~~formation Services
Directorate General |I
Development
l Directorate      ll|                                   Directorate of l
of                                              PIDER Promotion
PIDER                                               of Community
operations                                               Programs
for the           for the            for the              In             the Rural        of Productive
North Zone       Central Zone       South Zone                 n         Communities          Projects
SPP State
|Representative|
World Bank -22398



- 39 -
Chart 2
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
Project Organization
F
E                                                               Secretariat of
Programming and Budgeting
R                                                                   (SPP)
A                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SecretarY
L
L                                                                                                        SPP
E                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~General Coordination
E
L                                                                                                 State Delegations
State Governor
S  IlllI
T
A
T                                                                    SPP
E                                       .                         DelSet9aatteOn       _  _  __   __  _  _  __   __   __   _  __                      COPLADE         l
E
V
L
l   I   I   l   l   l  Monitoring  l  l   l   l   J  Rurya Development
Programming                  Budgeting               Administration                   and                   Information                State Sub-committee
Micro-regional                                                                   Rural Development
Rural Development                                                                       Regional
p                                                                   Office                                                                         Sub-committee
R
0
B
C
T                                      Studies and               Support for               Monitoring and
Proiect                Promotion of               Evaluation of    l
A                                     Identification          Rural Communibes             PIDER Program
A                                                                                                                                              |  Rural Communities C
COPLADE                                  Chairman  State Governor
Technical Secretary: SPP State Representative
Members: Representatives of federal and state agencies; social and private institutions
Rural Development State Sub-committee:  Coordinator Representative of State Government
Technical Secretary SPP Representative
Members. Federal and state agencies; social and private sector, municipal
authorities directly involved in the development of PIDER Program.
PIDER - Micro-regional Sub-committee    Coordinator. Representative of State Government
Technical Secretary SPP Micro-regional Representative
Members Technicians of federal and state agencies; social and private sector;
municipal authorities directly involved in development of PIDER
Program in rural areas; and representatives of rural communities.
World Bank- 22399



- 40 -
VI. COST AND FINANCING
6.01         The total project cost over the three-year project period is
estimated at US$506.0 million, of which US$96.0 million, or 19 percent
represents the foreign exchange cost. The baseline costs, estimated at
US$325.0 million, are based on detailed plans of eight micro-regions and
extrapolated for the remaining nine micro-regions. Baseline estimates are
based on June 1980 prices.
6.02         Physical contingencies have been estimated at US$22.8 million,
or 10 percent of baseline costs for construction, civil works, machinery,
and equipment. Price contingencies have been estimated at US$158.2 million
based on the Bank's revised estimates (as of October 1980) of domestic
inflation (28% for 1980, 20% for 1981, 18% for 1982, and 18% for 1983) and
international inflation (9% for 1980, 8.5% for 1981, 8% for 1982, and 7.5%
for 1983). Import duties, taxes, and other levies are not included in
project costs. Project costs are summarized on page 41.
Financing
6.03        The proposed Bank loan of US$175.0 million equivalent, amounting
to 35 percent of project cost, would cover foreign exchange cost of
US$96.0 million plus US$79.0 million of local currency cost. Of the remaining
cost the Government would finance US$268.0 million or 53 percent of the total,
through regular budget appropriations. Beneficiaries would contribute about
US$63.0 million (including contingencies) or 12 percent of total project costs in
cash or in kind (labor and materials) to the cost of electrification, perennial
crop development, rural industries and livestock infrastructure, soil and
water conservation, and land improvement. Of the cost financed by Government
and the Bank, US$36.1 million, or 11 percent of total cost would be development
credit to be repaid by beneficiaries. Incremental production credit required
for the project would be financed by the Government, and would be transferred
principally through the BANRURAL credit network using BANRURAL's standard
procedures and norms, which are the same as those applied in the Rainfed
Agricultural Development Project.
6.04        The loan would be made to the Nacional Financiera S.A. (NAFINSA),
a Government agency designated as official borrower from the Bank, and
would be for fifteen years, including a three-year grace period.
Budget Authorizations
6.05         In 1978, new budget authorization procedures for PIDER were
issued in order to resolve past problems in budget authorizations and funds
release. These problems include: (a) delays in proposal presentation by
the agencies, and in the consolidation work by the state SPP staff; (b) delays
in authorizations from the federal level SPP; (c) delays in submission of
vouchers to the SPP state delegates; and (d) insufficient or delayed funds in
the state SPP bank account. As a result, the commencement of new construction
and other activities for each fiscal year has usually been delayed until
the cropping season, when labor is scarce, resulting in the use of capital-
intensive techniques and a reduction in local employment benefits.



- 41 -
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
% of
Local      Foreign      Total        Local      Foreign       Total        %       Total
Foreign Baseline
------ Mex$ Millions ------          ------ US$ Millions -------    Exchange  Costs
Productive
Agricultural Development
Irrigation                                 623.3       207.0        830.3        27.1        9.0          36.1       25        11
Soil and Water Conservation                158.7        25.3        184.0         6.9        1.1           8.0       14         3
Land Improvement                            167.9       18.7         186.3        7.3        0.8           8.1       10         3
Fruit Crop Development                      285.2       32.2        317.4        12.4        1.4          13.8       10         4
Coffee Development                          190.9       50.6        241.5         8.3        2.2          10.5       21         3
Coconut Development                         41.4        11.5         52.9         1.8        0.5           2.3       21         1
Sub-Total Agricultural Development/a 1,467.4           345.0      1,812.4        63.8       15.0          78.8       19        24
Livestock Development
Beef and Dairy                              715.3      239.2        954.5        31.1       10.4          41.5                 13
Pasture Improvement                         128.8       43.7        172.5         5.6        1.9           7.5                  2
Small-stock                                225.4        75.9        301.3         9.8        3.3          13.1                  4
Sub-total Livestock Development/-    1,069.5           358.8      1,428.3        46.5       15.6          62.1       25        19
Fisheries                                      186.3       20.7         207.0        8.1        0.9           9.0       10          3
Forestry Development                            48.3        4.6          52.9        2.1        0.2           2.3       10          1
Rural Industries                               142.6       75.9         218.5        6.2         3.3          9.5       35          3
Development Credit                             664.7      165.6         830.3       28.9         7.2         36.1       20         11
Sub-Total Productive -                       3,578.8      970.6      4,549.4       155.6       42.2         197.8       21        61
Support
Extension -b                                   492.2      121.9         614.1       21.4        5.3          26.7       20          8
Rural Roads                                    259.9       87.4         347.3       11.3         3.8         15.1       25          5
Rural Electrification                          259.9       87.4         347.3       11.3        3.8          15.1       25          5
,ural Marketing                                 98.0        0            98.9        4.3        0             4.3        0          1
Earmer Organization and Training               184.0        9.2         193.2        8.0        0.4           8.4        5          3
Feasibility Studies                            115.0       11.5         126.5        5.0        0.5           5.5       10          2
Faseline Studies                                87.4        9.2          96.6        3.8        0.4           4.2       1n          I
Productive Programs for Women                   57.5        0            57.5        2.5        0             2.5        0          1
Sub-Total Support/a                          1,554.8      326.6      1,881.4        67.6       14.2          81.8       17        25
Social Infrastructure
Education                                      193.2       32.2         225.4        8.4         1.4          9.8       15          3
Rural Water Supply                             170.2       41.4         211.6        7.4         1.8          9.2       20          3
Health Centers                                 147.2       16.1         163.3        6.4        0.7           7.1       10          2
Nutrition                                      103.5       11.5         115.0        4.5         0.5          5.0       10          2
Self-help Materials                             20.7        2.3          23.0        0.9         0.1          1.0        5          0
Sub-total Infrastructure a                     634.8      103.5         738.3       27.6         4.5         32.1       14        10
Project Management
Monitoring and Evaluation                       29.9       20.7          50.6        1.3         0.9          2.2       40          1
Organization and Management                    142.6       34.5         177.1        6.2         1.5          7.7       20          2
Training and Technical Assistance               57.5       13.8          71.3        2.5         0.6          3.1       20          1
Sub-total Project Management -                 230.0       69.0         299.0       10.0         3.0         13.0       23          4
Base Cost -                                    5,998.4   1,469.7        7,468.1      260.8        63.9        324.7        20       100
Contingencies
Physical/-                                     425.5       98.9         524.4       18.5         4.3         22.8
Price                                        2,946.3      692.3       3,638.6      128.1        30.1        158.2
Total Cost -/                                  9,370.2   2,260.9       11,831.1      407.4        98.3        5D5.7
/a  Sums may not add due to rounding.
/b Extension includes technical assistance and applied research.
/c Physical contingency (10%) calculated for construction and civil works only.
04.01.81



- 42 -
6.06        Under the new procedures, the annual budgetary process begins
in July when the SPP state delegation consolidates the preliminary proposals
prepared by the executing agencies. The proposals are then sent to SPP
in Mexico City for general approval. In September, the state receives
notification of the global amount tentatively approved. The executing
agencies then finalize a detailed proposal, based on feasibility studies
(expedientes tecnicos), for each work. The proposals are then approved
by the SPP state delegate, and a summary sent to SPP at the federal level,
which authorizes the first tranche of funds (corresponding to about 30%
of the total annual budget approved), normally by the end of December.
Another 50% is usually authorized about one month later, and the remaining
20% is authorized after final adjustments. To reinforce this procedure
and guarantee that construction and other ongoing activities continue without
interruption during the dry season, a presidential agreement (Acuerdo de
Secas) was issued in October 1977. According to the outlined procedures,
funds for the first three months of the year are authorized by November
15, and actual transfer of funds takes place before January 15. All transfers
of funds are then made from Mexico City via Banco de Mexico (the official
PIDER financial agent) through a system of monthly advance deposits to a
local commercial bank which acts as the PIDER banking agent. Actual payments
to the various executing agencies are made upon signature of a voucher by:
(a) the individual responsible for the work; (b) the state head of the
executing agency; and (c) the SPP state delegate, upon confirmation from his
supervisory staff that the work has been done. The voucher is then sent to
the banking agent for disbursement. The effect of this new procedure has been
to speed up the process considerably, reducing delays in PIDER-financed work:
in many instances, the lag between the SPP delegate's signing of the voucher
and disbursement by the banking agent has been less than two weeks.
6.07        The authorization process would be carefully monitored during
the project by the state SPP delegation and the executing agencies.
In addition, the present system of monthly advance deposits would be
maintained during the project.
Accounts and Auditing
6.08        In addition to the regular annual budgetary allocation (Normal
Program) the state-level office of each agency participating in the PIDER
program receives a separate annual allocation to carry out its approved
PIDER-financed sub-projects in the state's micro-regions. Separate accounts
for all components of PIDER III except credit would be kept by SPP at the
state and federal level. Separate accounts for the credit components
of PIDER III would be kept by FIRA and FICART. Accounts kept by SPP are
subject to internal audits; SPP auditors are authorized and responsible to
carry out audits within other secretariats and agencies as well, when necessary.
FIRA and FICART are audited by external auditors appointed by the Ministry
of Finance (SHCP). In addition, the audit department of SHCP, Fondos y Valores,
has authority to audit any Government secretariat or parastatal with the aim
of ensuring correct use of Government funds and carries out such audits
occasionally.
6.09        At negotiations assurances were obtained that SPP would maintain
separate accounts for PIDER III and prepare annual financial statements
adequate to reflect the resources and expenditures of the agencies responsible
for  --ving out any part of the project.  These accounts and annual financial



- 43 -
statements would be audited annually by the internal auditor of SPP in
accordance with normal procedures. Copies of the annual financial statements with
the certificate and report of the internal auditor of SPP would be furnished to
the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year. SPP would also
furnish to the Bank such other pertinent information concerning such accounts,
financial statements and audit as the Bank shall reasonably request from time
to time.
Procurement
6.10        The project would include a diversity of many relatively small
projects involving Government agencies dispersed throughout the areas. Due to
the small size of sub-projects and therefore of goods contracts, contracts are
not expected to be of interest to foreign bidders, and little international
competitive bidding is expected. A combination of local competitive bidding,
negotiated contracts and force accounts would be utilized in accordance with
Government's regular procedures.
6.11        Goods, including operation and maintenance equipment; office
information and documentation equipment; and vehicles would be purchased by
several agencies in small quantities in accordance with implementation
requirements, from local suppliers who offer a wide range of international
brands, adequate service, and sufficient supplies of spare parts.   Where
feasible, contracts for the purchase of materials and equipment shall be
grouped into packages of at least US$350,000 equivalent and procured through
international competitive bidding. Smaller contracts could be procured
through local competitive bidding or local shopping in accordance with the
Government's ordinary procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Because
of the competitiveness of local suppliers and the strong representation of
international manufacturers through Mexican firms, it is expected that most
contracts would be awarded to Mexican bidders. Bidding documents would be
kept in the SPP office and made available for Bank review on request.
6.12        Civil works would be scattered over the project area, and individual
contracts would not be large enough to attract foreign bidders. Mexico's
construction industry is experienced and capable of executing works at costs
competitive with international levels. Contracts for construction of civil
works would be procured following local procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Due to the small size of individual PIDER works, the physical dispersion of
works, and the large number of agencies responsible for executing works, grouping
of works into packages for local competitive bidding would not be generally
practicable. Under the new Ley de Obras Publicas (December 30, 1980), however,
local competitive bidding is required for nearly all works, regardless of size.
In addition, SPP will issue guidelines to field staff outlining when grouping
would be appropriate. Force account would be used in some cases where the Govern-
ment agencies have an established and demonstrated capability, particularly
construction of feeder roads and drilling of wells. In cases where bidder
interest is low because of the isolation and small size of project works, nego-
tiated contracts would be allowed. Experience under previous projects has shown
these practices to be reasonable and efficient.



- 44 -
Disbursement
6.13        The proposed loan would be disbursed against the categories
presented below:
Disbursement Categories
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of Expen-
(Expressed in          diture to
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)       be Financed
1. Civil works for irrigation,                97,200,000                 42
soil and water conservation,/_
fruit crop development, coffee
development, livestock develop-
ment, and roads.
2. Medium-term development                    22,500,000                 42
credit.
3. Vehicles, equipment, materials,            27,200,000                 42
incremental salaries, and
per diem for: extension
and applied research, farmers'
organization and training,
productive projects for women,
and nutrition.
4. Vehicles,equipment, materials, incre-   14,200,000                    42
mental salaries, and per diem for:
project organization and management,
monitoring and evaluation, staff
development, feasibility studies,
and socio-economic studies.
5. Unallocated                                13,900,000
175,000,000
6.14        Disbursement would be made against statements of expenditures
prepared and certified by SPP in the case of expenditures by secretariats.
In the case of FIRA and FICART, the statements of expenditures would be
prepared and certified by these agencies themselves. All such statements
would be transmitted through NAFINSA. Supporting documentation would be
retained by SPP and line agencies and made available for examination by the
Bank during the course of Bank project supervision missions. A disbursement
schedule, assuming a date of effectiveness of June 1981, is presented in Annex 5.
/1   All soil and water conservation activities, excluding subsoiling .



- 45 -
6.15        Since all eight micro-regions already appraised were PIDER I micro-
regions, PIDER-financed development in those areas is ongoing. Disbursements
for PIDER I were completed by late 1980. In order to avoid delay in implemen-
tation of ongoing investments, and to take advantage of the dry season (Januaary -
March), retroactive financing of up to US$5.0 million is proposed to cover eligible
expenditures made after January 1, 1981, but before the Loan Agreement is signed.
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Production
7.01        The production schedules developed by the micro-regional planning
teams are based on land expansion, land rehabilitation, and new technology
development and use. Each of these strategies generates incremental output.
Projections of project benefits have been based on ejido models for livestock
and per hectare models for crops. As land improvements are introduced,
farmers shift crop mix from traditional, low-productivity, low-value, drought-
resistant grain crops, to high-input higher-risk, cash crops. In the initial
stages of the project, traditional yields would continue--around 700 kg/ha for
maize and 400 kg/ha for beans, based on a ten-year average. This allows for a
general probability of two low-rainfall years out of five. Because most of
the micro-regions selected for PIDER III have drought problems, except for the
coffee-production area in Guerrero, the most important feature of this project
would be management and control of water resources.
7.02        When crop production must rely exclusively on rainfed moisture,
the assurance of adequate precipitation in any given season is low. For this
reason farmers are quite reluctant to make large annual cash outlays for
crop inputs such as fertilizers and chemicals. Even with crop insurance to
cover input losses, the uptake rate of new crop technology lags over the first
few years. However, as more appropriate technologies are developed and
introduced, and the complementary delivery system becomes more efficient, the
level of technology adoption increases rapidly. The various interventions
planned under the project would each result in an incremental benefit stream:
(a) land clearing would result in additional cropped land;
(b) irrigation on land previously barren or grazed would allow
expansion of annual and perennial crop hectareage;
(c) irrigation of rainfed areas would result in yield increases
of maize or other traditional crops and would allow shift to
higher-valued cash crops;
(d) improved moisture control, through subsoiling, terracing,
and related techniques would result in further yield
increases; and
(e) development and adoption of new technologies for
rainfed conditions would result in yield increases for
traditional food crops.
7.03        To estimate total production at full development under the project,
the eight micro-regional plans were assumed to represent the investment
mix of the seventeen micro-regions. Since the plans themselves are indicative
in nature, rather than the sum of specific sub-project investment plans,



- 46 -
estimates of both production and income (paras 7.08-7.09) as wellC as the
economic analysis based on them (paras 7.13-7.15) must be inter':reted as a
general (rather than precise) estimate of the expected impact of the project.
7.04        Based on extrapciation from the eight plans, then, some 64,000
hectares now in production would receive project interventions>, and some
18,000 hectares would be brcught into new production.  At full :ievelopment,
incremental production of basic crops, oil crops and feedgrairn  would reach
128,000 metric tons (mt); cocoa, coconut, and coffee, almost l',D000 mt;
citrus, 116,000 mt; vegetab-Les, 21,000 mt; fruits, 56,000 mt, and cashew, some
15,000 mt. Total value of production over the baseline (without project)
levels/l would be US$72.3 million annually.  Details of crop production by
year are shown in Annex 6, Table 1.
7.05        in the case of beef and dairy production, productivity increase
s a function of genetic improvement; pasture and forage develcpment; and
water, fencing, and corral facility expansion.  Production increases would be
realized directly within the first few years of project activity and would be
directly correlated to stock increases and herd mix shifts within the ejido
model.
7.06        For small livestock as well, production increase would come from
construction of new units and numbers.  Livestock production increases appear
in Annex 6, Table 2.
B. Marketing
7.07        Since most of the incremental production under the project would
be for local sale and conEumption, the existing marketing s;stem is judged
adequate for most commodities. In the case of coffee, cocoa. copra, and
some fruits, local processing facilities and marketing systems are well
established and have sufficient capacity to handle production increases.
In those situations where storage capacity is inadequate, the project would
provide for construction of additional warehouses or silos. In the case of
fruits and vegetable produiction in Yucatan, the adequacy of `ce existing
marketing organizations will need to be assessed to determine their capacity
to handle increased production of perishables. With respect to marketing
services, it is envisioned that as production and sales increase, local
competitive market responses would serve to ensure that product transfers
proceed efficiently.
Co Beneficiaries Income
7.08        Traditioral .naize production generates income of roughly Mex$1,000
(net of cash outlays) per hectare in years with adequate rainfall, while
maize grown under improved rainfed conditions generates up to Mex$3,000
per hectare for one season. The more highly valued commercial crops, such as
fruits and vegetables, coffee, and cocoa, produce substantially more income,
ranging from Mex$15,000 to Mex$45,000 (under irrigation) per hectare per
/1 Baseline = 1981 withcut-project output.



- 47 -
season. At full development incremental crop income reaches over Mex$1.4
billion annually, while income from livestock enterprises totals Mex$680
million per year. By combining crop activities into representative family
units, per capita incomes before and after project implementation can be
estimated for the agricultural component. Annex 6, Table 3 gives the breakdown
by micro-region for the eight areas analyzed for appraisal. "Without project"
figures are calculated for the base year, 1981, rather than considering the
gradual autonomous adoption curve./l The "With project" figures reflect
complete adoption of the improved technologies and full impact of improvements
to land (Annex 4). It should be noted that the population of direct
beneficiaries being considered comprises only those farmers receiving direct
project investments on their land. Those receiving only extension are
considered indirect beneficiaries, and their incremental production is not
included in the figures. In this analysis, per capita incomes from crops
increase from about Mex$740 to about Mex$4,150. If one assumes that about 40
percent of per capita income is derived from crops, then this increase would
result in an increase in total per capita income of 74 percent, ceterus
paribus.
7.09        Induced income from increased hired labor in crop. production
and direct income to temporary labor used for infrastructure construction
and for land improvements would be substantial within the selected micro-
regions. Annex 6, Table 4 shows the change in total labor demand from before
project initiation and at full development.
D. Nutritional Impact
7.10        Recent research on consumption patterns in developing countries
which have maize and beans as their staples, indicates that price and income
elasticities for these commodities vary by income group and by season.
Using price and income elasticities derived from studies carried out in
similar ecological areas, and depending upon the incremental per capita income
generated by PIDER III within each micro-region and upon the seasonal occurrence
of these impacts, consumption effects by income group could be derived, and
then per-family protein and calorie consumption increments. The project would
have its greatest impact in those areas where seasonal variation is the greatest,
and where drought leads to severe nutritional deficits. Techniques for water
management would reduce the severity of crop/income loss during periods of
drought and would generate the highest percentage increases in income due
to production and employment impacts. Results from areas where the largest
proportion of the investment is in commercial crops show that there would
be a smaller nutritional impact in those areas, because the initial nutrition
levels are generally higher than in drought-prone rainfed areas. However,
the overall nutritional effect would still be substantial because of the
large employment and income effects related to cash-cropping. Livestock
production would also result in a significant nutritional effect due to
substantial income generation in that sector. Additionally, increases in meat
/1 If the yield level of the autonomous adoption curve were used as the
"Without project" situation, the total annual income increment would
be about Mex$950 million.



- 48 -
and milk production would moderate local price increases for those commodities,
making them more accessible for more of the population. The baseline studies
(para 4.70) would include assessment of nutritional levels, and both qualitative
and quantitative changes in those levels would be monitored to determine if
the expected impacts occur.
E. Employment Impact
7.11        Application of modern inputs to subsistence agriculture results
in higher employment requirements. Since labor demands for subsistence
agriculture often equals the supply at peak periods (seeding, first weeding,
and especially harvesting, for perishable crops), introduction of new technol-
ogies which demand increased labor at those peak periods may be constrained
by labor shortages. To address this problem, PIDER III would concentrate on
soil and water conservation to allow slight shifts in seeding dates to even
out the peak demand periods. In this way, the effect of the new technologies
would be a higher demand for labor with less fluctuation of demand during the
growing season. Traditional maize production requires about 30-40 workdays per
hectare per season. Improved maize with some mechanization uses about 30%
more labor. Irrigated land in annual cash crops doubles the demand for labor
compared to traditional maize. Some orchard production requires about 70-120
workdays per season. Annex 6, Table 4 shows the employment potential from
project activities at full adoption.
F. Environmental Impact
7.12        The productive components of the project are expected to have a
neutral or favorable effect on the environment. Soil and water conservation
in particular would be of great importance in establishing and demonstrating
conservation practices, which, if proven, could be adopted more widely and
have a major role in the reduction of soil erosion, one of the main long-term
problems in Mexico's countryside. Reforestation and afforestation would also
be important in those areas where planned. Rural roads would be designed and
constructed to control run-off. Although the use of agro-chemicals would
increase under the project, use would be limited to those with low toxicity,
and extension officers would stress safety and avoidance of excessive
application.
G. Economic Analysis
7.13        Economic and financial analysis was based on investment plans,
drawn up by state planners, for each of the eight micro-regions. (These plans
are of an indicative nature, rather than the sum of detailed sub-project
proposals.)   Each plan contains cost estimates of both investment and
operating costs and the financial analysis for a representative ejido in the
micro-region. Each plan also contains an aggregate analysis for the micro-
region, including projected production with and without PIDER, by crop and
type of intervention for agriculture, and by type of livestock. The appraisal



- 49 -
team, in consultation with Mexican agronomists, evaluated the technical
parameters used by state planners to determine how closely they represented
the average (over-time) baseline situation, and how realistically they
projected the effects of project interventions. In some cases, the
agronomists adjusted yields, uptake rates, phasing, and area to be affected by
project investments. In all cases, parameters chosen were considered relatively
conservative. Prices for tradable outputs were derived from international
market prices, and adjusted according to World Bank price projections. A
standard conversion factor of unity was assumed. Costs were valued at market
prices plus physical contingencies for non-labor inputs. Hired labor was
shadow-priced at 50 percent of the official minimum wage rate in Guerrero and
Yucatan, to reflect the considerable surplus of agricultural labor in those
states.   In Sinaloa and Zacatecas, where richer neighboring areas have caused
labor to emigrate from the micro-regions, labor was valued at 100% of the
official state minimum wage.
7.14        Economic rates of return were calculated for agriculture and
livestock, considering investment and operating costs, extension, farmers'
organization and training, plus production support investments needed to
achieve incremental benefits. These include electrification required for
irrigation, feeder roads, and marketing facilities. No benefits were imputed
for investments such as roads and marketing facilities to allow for probable
increases in real income due to reduction in transport costs and in loss due
to spoilage and rodents. Since these benefits will accrue to a larger group
of beneficiaries than that benefiting directly from productive investments,
both because this infrastructure will be open to the public and due to a
multiplier effect, it is likely that the rates of return calculated may be
conservative. Rates of return were not calculated for rural industries, since
the types of sub-project planned were highly locality-specific, and in many
cases experimental, making a region-wide or aggregate evaluation of benefits
or costs extremely speculative.
7.15        Among micro-regions, economic rates of return ranged from
14 percent to 44 percent, with the aggregated rate of return calculated at
27 percent. This variation results from extreme ecological differences among
micro-regions. In some regions, where traditional cropping patterns include
mainly maize and beans, at relatively low yields, interventions planned are
expected to increase yields of these traditional food crops, and to allow
diversification into higher-value fruits and vegetables. In Guerrero, where
crops such as coffee, coconut palm, and cocoa are already cultivated, invest-
ments have been planned to improve or replace old stands (some are 60-90 years
old) as well as to improve yields of food crops. The high prices of perennial
crops, particularly coffee, account for the very high rate of return in these
areas.



- 50 -
H. Project Risks
7.16        The main risks associated with the project would be (a) institutional
and (b) climatic. The major institutional problem would be to ensure effective
coordination between the various line agencies involved in project execution.
A number of actions have been taken to minimize this type of risk:
(1) the states included in PIDER III were chosen for their experience with such
projects, and efforts are already being made to redefine responsibilities
and strengthen coordination where it was weak in the past; (2) line agencies
have already played a key role in planning overall investments as well
as sub-projects, and agency personnel show a higher level of commitment
than in the past. The most serious climatic risk would be drought, and
the emphasis on better conservation and farming practices built into project
design is intended to reduce this risk. Institutional risk factors could
result in cost overruns and delays in project benefits derived from one
or more project activities; drought would reduce and/or delay benefits from
all agricultural and livestock activities in the affected areas.
I. Sensitivity Analysis
7.17        Sensitivity analysis was performed to determine how much deviation
from appraisal estimates of costs and benefits is tolerable before the economic
basis for the project is undermined. With the critical rate of return taken
as 12 percent, results indicate that permissible shortfalls in benefits range
from 10 percent to 60 percent across micro-regions and 30 percent overall.
The permissible range on the cost side is also 10 percent to 60 percent, and
40 percent overall. The analysis indicated that an overall lag in project
benefits of about two and one half years caused the rate of return to fall to
12 percent. Across micro-regions, permissible lags ranged from one half to
three years. Annex 6, Table 5, summarizes the results of the analysis.
J. Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact
7.18        For all sub-projects affecting individual farmers or ejidos, Government
policy is to establish beneficiary commitment to the investment by requiring their
contribution to support some fraction of the total cost. Beneficiary contribution
to the investment cost of productive infrastructure varies by component. For
small-scale irrigation, farmers purchase pumping equipment with long-term credit
and may be required to contribute up to 30% of the cost of investment in the
form of labor, materials, or cash. They are fully responsible for costs of
operation and maintenance. For soil and water conservation and land improvement
for seasonal crops, beneficiaries contribute a proportion of investment costs,
the amount to be determined in each case by the implementing agency and the
farmers. Beneficiaries are responsible for maintenance of work. For fruit
and other perennial crops, beneficiaries would provide all labor inputs for
establishment of planting and maintenance of orchards or groves and would
purchase machinery and equipment with credit. For the livestock, beekeeping,
and fishery component, beneficiaries would purchase stock and equipment with
development credit, and be responsible for the operation and maintenance of
the units. For components involving civil works (forestry, rural roads,



- 51 -
electrification, construction of schools, health centers, warehouses, and
rural stores), beneficiaries would provide labor whenever feasible. For water
supply, beneficiaries would contribute labor and be responsible for operation
and maintenance, assisted by JEAP, the State Potable Water Board.
Though a significant proportion of project costs, including
organization and management, studies, extension, and research, is not directly
recoverable, these costs are consistent with the Mexican Government's commitment
to rural development. At the present time, public investment in programs to
assist small farmers and other poor rural groups amounts to about US$3.2 billion
equivalent annually. PIDER investments alone were running at US$450 million
equivalent in 1980. PIDER III investments for the first year of the project
would represent approximately 25% of the PIDER budget, though budgetary alloca-
tions for PIDER gave been growing yearly. The mission is confident, therefore,
that the Government will continue to provide technical assistance where necessary
to ensure continued operation of investments after the project's closing date.
It is judged unlikely that fulfilling these responsibilities will cause the
Government undue fiscal strain.
VIII. SUMMARY OF MAIN AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01        Conditions for Loan Effectiveness.  During negotiations agreements
were obtained that:
(a) The full staffing of the Micro-regional Rural Development office
in each of the eight micro-regions already appraised would be a
condition for loan effectiveness (para 5.08).
(b) Preparation of a detailed proposal for the monitoring
and evaluation system for the project, as outlined in
para 5.16 and as mutually agreed upon by SPP and the
Bank, would be a condition for loan effectiveness.
8.02        Conditions for Disbursement for Micro-regions or Specific
Components. During negotiations agreements were obtained that:
(a) A condition of disbursement for each micro-region would
be that a plan prepared in accordance with para 3.04
had been appraised and found satisfactory by the Bank.
(b) Livestock investment would be executed according to
guidelines agreed upon by the Bank as a condition for
disbursement for the component (para.4.41).
(c) Agreement between the Government and the Bank regarding
interest rate structures would be a condition of
disbursement for development credit (para 4.49).



- 52 -
(d)  A specific work program for socio-economic studies would be
agreed upon by the Government and the Bank as a condition of
disbursement of this component (para 4.70).
(e)  Completion of a plan mutually satisfactory to the Bank and SPP
for the training program for the staff development component
would be a condition of disbursement of this component
(para 5.10 (b)).
8.03         During negotiations agreements were obtained that:
(a)  Requirements for irrigation and soil and water conservation
sub-projects, and the ceiling for livestock sub-projects
would be met as specified in paras 4.23, 4.28, and 4.41,
respectively.
(b)  SPP would maintain and adequately staff an organizational unit
to carry out monitoring and evaluation of the project.
(c)  With respect to accounts and auditing and procurement, the
Government would follow the procedures specified in
paras 6.08-6.09 and 6.10-6.12, respectively.
(d)  With respect to monitoring and evaluation of the project,
SPP would furnish to the Bank the specially prepared semi-
annual and completion reports as specified in para 5.16, in
addition to the normal reporting procedures as set up by
SPP.
8.04        With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$175 million for a term of 15 years, including
three years of grace, at an interest rate of 9.6%.



- 53 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 1
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
The PIDER Program
1.          In 1973, the Investment Program for Rural Development (PIDER)
was established to channel resources into low-income rural areas with
productive potential. Through broad-based rural investment for a wide range
of activities, it was designed to reinforce agencies' actions as a nationwide
rural development program. It was jointly supported by the Inter-American
Development Bank (US$40 million), the World Bank (US$230 million), and the
Mexican Government. By the end of 1980 Mexico will have invested US$1.7
billion in 119 micro-regions, covering 8,500 communities with 6.1 million
inhabitants (22% of Mexico's rural poor)./l PIDER accounted for an average of
8.8% of total investment in the rural areas during the period of 1977-1980.
Investment was targeted to benefit those least developed states with the
highest concentration of rural poor. Accordingly, Oaxaca, Guerrero, Zacatecas,
and Chiapas received 23% of PIDER's funds.
2.          During PIDER's initial years (1973-1975) its explicit objective
was to identify the areas with the bulk of Mexico's rural poor and to increase
the general standard of living of the rural poor by channelling a variety
of productive and social investments and services into these regions. By
1975, PIDER's focus had evolved from that of public expenditure/welfare
program to that of providing an investment package of selected goods and
services as a means to: (a) raise rural living standards by introducing
directly productive activities; (b) increase levels of permanent and temporary
employment; (c) strengthen supporting productive activities; and (d) improve
social infrastructure. To achieve these objectives, during the period of 1975
to 1979, 44% of PIDER's investments were devoted to productive projects, 41%
to productive support, and 15% to social infrastructure investments. The
trend between 1975 and 1979 showed an average increase in investment of 24%,
11% and 3% in productive, support and social investments respectively.
Assessment of the PIDER Program
A. Institutional Impact
3.          In 1978, the Mexican Government and the World Bank jointly
undertook a mid-term evaluation of the first Bank loan (PIDER I). Assessments
of PIDER I performance are interrelated with assessments of the performance
of the entire PIDER program. With few exceptions, actions taken to improve
the thirty PIDER I micro-regions have been applied program-wide. Similarly,
improvements in program-wide actions have directly affected the PIDER I
micro-regions. With the completion of PIDER I, SPP is currently assessing
/1 SPP, "Programa Integral para el Desarrollo Rural--Analisis de la Situacion
Actual y su Incorporacion al Esquema del Convenio Unico de Coordinacion",
Junio 1980.



- 54 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 2
the physical progress and the development impact of the PIDER program in
Mexico. The results of this evaluation will be available by mid-1981.
Because of the thoroughness with which CIDER carried out the mid-term
evaluation, space permits only a summary of the main findings of the
evaluation.
4.          The main results of the mid-term evaluation point to an overall
positive balance for PIDER's achievements over the last few years. The most
innovative element of PIDER-s effort to address rural poverty has been
institutional impact. PIDER has had an important effect on Mexican bureau-
cratic functioning through:
(a) the decentralization of expenditures to the state level,
resulting in a more flexible and efficient funding method
for thousands of small projects undertaken in PIDER
micro-regions;
(b) the provision of some degree of coordination, at both the
central and state levels, for the investment activities
of numerous executing agencies;
(c) the strengthening of the activities of participating
agencies involved in rural development;
(d) the creation of a professional evaluation agency and the
establishment of an innovative system of monitoring and
evaluation; and
(e) the organization at the state level of the Socio-economic
Development Committees, later transformed into the COPRODES.
In addition, PIDER has also promoted the reform of the agricultural extension
service and has supported technical innovations designed specifically for
the small farmer; including irrigation systems, maize storage units, and
small-stock programs.
B. PIDER Physical Impact
5.          PIDER's overall impact in the micro-regions selected for the
mid-term evaluation can be summarized as follows: (a) of the thirty programs
financed by PIDER, ten received 75.5% of the total investments. The main
ones were rural roads (16.2%), irrigation (15.6%), and livestock development
(11.1%); (b) the construction phase of the PIDER investments provided
substantial increases in temporary employment opportunities to a large number
of the rural poor. It was estimated that up to 1978, the PIDER civil works
program created approximaely 76,700 man-years of temporary jobs. Twenty-four
thousand of these were generated through the construction of rural roads;
(c) most of the permanent increases in farmer employment, income, and production
resulted primarily from the small-scale irrigation works; (d) larger numbers
of rural poor benefited rather equitably from PIDER's social infrastructure
works. Below are described some of the findings of the mid-term evaluation,



- 55 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 3
related to the sectors described in para 5.
Socio-economic Impact of Rural Roads
6.          Of the four micro-regions surveyed, rural roads investments ranged
from 7.2% of total investments in Eastern Morelos to 27.6% in Sur de Yucatan.
CIDER found that Sur de Yucatan in particular benefited from heavy investments,
which led not only to the largest extension in roads built (232.3 km compared
to 70, 100, and 154 km in Nuevo Leon, Morelos, and Guanajuato), but also to
the highest proportion of roads finished and in use (91.1% compared to 59.1%,
81.2%, and 69.2% in the other three micro-regions. Sur de Yucatan also
allotted 39% of its road budget to employing local labor, in accordance with
the state PIDER goal of beneficiary participation: figures available for two
other regions indicate a much smaller percentage of local use, namely 12.5%
and 15.6% in Guanajuato and Morelos. Labor was sought from the localities
benefiting directly from road construction, PIDER was also obliged to look for
construction workers in neighboring localities as well.
7.          Road Benefits.  CIDER determined that the roads provided cost
reductions of 70% in goods transport. Benefits varied within regions as
well. CIDER's overall findings for Northeast Guanajuato indicate that roads
were first built in flat zones of the region, to the disadvantage of more
needy subregions; a shift in emphasis has tried to correct the strategy.
Roads have provided access to fertilizer supplies, stimulating peasant
organizations' purchase of such inputs; commercial activities have increased,
particularly the sale of fruits to local markets; and access to institutional
services such as technical assistance has been improved.
Socio-economic Impact of Irrigation
8.          CIDER evaluated irrigation projects in four micro-regions.  These
works had significant effects on: (a) production, (b) employment, and
(c) income. In Guanajuato, for example, maize production on newly irrigated
plots increased 245%, beans 660%, and chiles 1,850%; and cultivation expanded
22% in land area due to double-cropping alone./l The aggregate value of
production per hectare of irrigated land/2 quintupled in the period after the
initiation of the PIDER program, reaching some Mex$6,000 per hectare (US$185).
The evaluation survey also indicated, however, that within the Guanajuato
micro-region, as well as in the other micro-regions, considerable variations
occurred within the aggregate production figures. For instance, in the
community of Mision de Arnedo (Guanajuato), the aggregate value of production
per ha increased 1.5 times, while in the semi-collective ejido Vagui, production
increased 22 times. Production value increased 2.6 times on the average in
Eastern Morelos, reaching a value of Mex$9,000; in Nuevo Leon, the increases
were smaller, varying between Mex$2,500 and Mex$5,000.
/1 CIDER, "Evaluacion de los Programas de Riego, Desarrollo Ganadero, y
Caminos en Cuatro Regiones PIDER," September 1978, pp. 22-23.
/2 "Aggregate value" is defined by CIDER as "equal to the gross value of
total production less direct monetary costs, without imputing costs of
family labor contributed, or to other inputs contributed by the producer."



- 56 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 4
9.          While irrigation works generally did not provide a significant
rise in employment during the construction phase, permanent additional
employment was created during the operation of the irrigated areas.
In Eastern Morelos some 48 man-days per hectare were generated; given the
2,000 hectares irrigated, employment equivalent to 350 permanent jobs was
provided./l   The sample survey was not in a position to find out who absorbed
the labor generated (follow-up and comparative studies are still necessary);
but CIDER did find that in Morelos, three of the four ejidos studied employed
three landless workers for every family member working. In Northeast
Guanajuato, an average 72 man-days of labor was added by irrigation work,
an increase of 218% over pre-program opportunities for farm labor./2 Value of
work was also estimated as having increased from Mex$50 to Mex$70 per day.
This increment compares favorably with the average salary of Mex$6C earned
by rural workers in the region./3
10.         With respect to income, CIDER estimated that the annual aggregate
value of production per hectare in Northeast Guanajuato averaged Mex$8,000,
Mex$6,400 of which is attributable to PIDER investment. CIDER also calculates
that at least 90% of the aggregate value is absorbed by the peasant family as
the principal unit of production and consumption. While CIDER considers that
salaries of landless laborers have gone up in the area, the value absorbed
by the peasant family itself was higher, since the peasant household members
have been working more intensively on the irrigated land.
Socio-economic Impact of Livestock
11.         Livestock projects financed by PIDER had a relatively small effect
on production, income (only a few farmers having benefited) or on permanent
employment. For those units that are operating, income and employment effects
have been low since income benefits will take at least four to five years
from project initiation to be realized.  Employment impact has been low since
most units required operation by only three to four persons. In Sur de
Yucatan, for example, it has been estimated that one new job requires an
investment of Mex$l million (US$44,000). CIDER concluded that in most cases,
the small livestock program supported by PIDER, especially goatkeeping and
beekeeping projects, were more viable than large beef cattle programs.
12.         Marked differences, however, exist between states in the technical
strategy, extent, and quality of PIDER livestock investments. In Durango,
the livestock investment program has been relatively extensive and successful:
some 8 pork units and 31 extensive beef ranching units have been completed,
the latter being subject to close control of stocking pressures under far-
reaching state legislation enacted in 1976. The program in Zacatecas has been
more diverse, involving investments in 4 dairy units; genetic upgrading
/1 CIDER, "Evaluacion de los Programas de Riego, Desarrollo Gandadero, y
Caminos en Cuatro Regiones PIDER,' September 1978, pp. 22-23.
/2 Ibid., p.21
/3 Ibid., p.21



- 57 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 5
of stock through bull and ram exchanges; sheep, goat and pork units; diagnostic
laboratories; watering points; and extensive ranching units. Very little
livestock investment has taken place in Aguascalientes, and the few units
which have been completed (one dairy unit, one ranching enterprise, and several
poultry units) have encountered serious technical and organizational problems.
PIDER is well aware of these problems and an improving trend exists in the
technical and financial viability of recently executed and currently
programmed livestock investments.
Impact of Social Infrastructure
13.         Approximately 250,000 families have benefited from PIDER-s social
infrastructure work, which created some 11,000 temporary jobs during its
construction phase. Benefits of social infrastructure are especially hard
to quantify. Interviews by Bank staff and CIDER evaluators with villagers
indicate that beneficiaries, particularly women, have placed a high value on
having gained access to schools for their children, potable water and health
facilities. They often have expressed a hope that the schools will enable
their children to gain a primary education, something they view as necessary
for improvement of their children's welfare./l Increased access to potable
water has been highly valued by the women, who have saved time and effort.
Many have begun to use this extra time profitably through home gardening,
raising of small stock, and dressmaking. The beneficiaries welcomed and used
the access to improved health services. These services may have substantial
(though as yet unmeasured) financial benefits, since very often sickness is
the major cause of the family's financial debt. Often the construction of the
social infrastructure was speeded up by contribution of local labor resources;
this participation reflected the importance attached to social infrastructure
to the beneficiaries.
14.         PIDER's performance suggests that a number of crucial issues for
Mexican rural development remain unresolved. However, PIDER has succeeded in
focusing attention upon these issues (para 2.10-2.12) and directing Government
decisions toward the specific problems confronting the rural poor.
/1 The importance that the parents often attach to providing their children
with an education is reflected by the fact that many have used their
profits from the irrigation works not for direct productive reinvestment
in their farms, but for sending their children to a nearby high school.
This pattern was documented by the CIDER evaluation team in Morelos.



- 58 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 1
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
Description of the Micro-Regions
Norte de Sinaloa
1.          Norte de Sinaloa, with an area of 14,500 km2 has a population of
167,000 of which 85% are located in rural areas. An average of 4.6% of the
rural population migrates to urban centers or irrigated areas each year.
2.          Altitudes vary in this micro-region from a high of 2,700 meters
to a low of 0 meters. Rainfall is generally low, averaging only 700 mm
per year. Over 2,000 hectares are under irrigation, with a potential for
expansion of up to 12,000 hectares. Rainfed areas adequate for agricultural
production extend over 175,000 hectares, of which about 80,000 hectares are
now being cropped.
3.          Principal crops in the irrigated areas are safflower, cotton,
soybean, wheat, potatoes, and some vegetables; in the rainfed areas, maize,
beans, sesame, groundnuts, and sorghum dominate. Productivity is low in the
rainfed areas, due to the farmers reluctance to use improved inputs. Droughts
of varying severity occur roughly two out of five years, increasing the risk
of even short-term investments, such as fertilizer. Moreover, the extension
system is inadequate and the availability of credit for rainfed crops is
minimal.
4.          Livestock represents a major part of the rural economy, with
170,000 hectares devoted to pasture land. Beef, pork, and goat are the
principal livestock products. Two dams in the region provide for a substantial
fishing industry, and 12,000 hectares of forests are exploited annually.
Tin, zinc, copper, silver, and gold are the principal minerals mined in Norte
de Sinaloa.
5.          The major thrust of the PIDER investments for 1981 to 1983 is
in land development. Irrigation, subsoiling, soil and water conservation
works, land rehabilitation, and land-clearing operations will be the principal
activities which will open up new land as well as improve productivity of land
presently being cropped. In addition, technical assistance will be introduced
over a widespread area. Expected increases in productivity and total output
will result in corresponding increases in employment and income. A constraint
co rainfed agricultural development in the area, however, is the fact that
laborers migrate to the irrigated areas of the coastal strip during the
harvest season in those areas--December to February or March--thereby severely
limiting the potential for second season crops in the upland areas.



- 59 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 2
Mocorito-Badiraguato-Culiacan, Sinaloa
6.          This micro-region in the center of Sinaloa, comprises 12,000 km2
and has a population of 137,000, 88% of which is rural. The terrain is
characterized by the foothills of the Sierra Madre mountains, with altitudes
ranging from sea level to over 2,000 meters. Rainfall varies from dry areas
of 600 mm to areas with over 1,000 mm per year. Even in the less arid areas,
however, seasonal occurrence of precipitation is unfavorable to agriculture,
since the rains are concentrated in the late summer months of July, August,
and September. There are about 8,000 hectares of irrigated land, 100,000
hectares of rainfed potential, of which only 75% is being cropped, and 1,500
hectares of humedal--areas of rich, moist, organic topsoil.
7.          There is considerable variation throughout the region with respect
to cropping patterns, and these variations result in corresponding differences
in per-hectare value of production. For example, Culiacan has twice the
cropped area of Mocorito, but the two municipios produce the same total
value of output--Mex$80 million annually. The reason for this apparent
difference in productivity is that Mocorito has more hectareage of sesame and
groundnuts which yield a much higher value of product per hectare than do
maize and sorghum, the principal crops in Culiacan.
8.          However, livestock is the major source of income in the region; the
value of production from the livestock sector totaled Mex$900 million in 1979,
over five times the income from crops. Over 300,000 hectares are grazed by
about 300,000 head of beef cattle./l There are about 125,000 hogs and 30,000
goats in the region.
9.          In addition to crops and livestock production, fishing from the
lakes formed by two dams provides about 100,000 kg of fish per year, valued at
about Mex$4 million. Forest products account for about Mex$60 million and
mineral extraction about Mex$30 million.
10.         Investments planned for this region would improve productivity
of agriculture through soil and water conservation, land rehabilitation,
small-scale irrigation, and fruit crop development. Livestock investments
would introduce small stock and beefkeeping installations as well as beef and
dairy installations.
Valparaiso, Zacatecas
11.         Valparaiso comprises 9,000 km2 with a population of 143,000.  The
micro-region is quite arid, with rainfall averaging 700 to 800 mm annually.
Irrigated area covers about 6,000 hectares, and rainfed crops are cultivated
on another 111,000 hectares. Maize is the principal crop, followed by beans.
Fruit production is of growing importance. 500 irrigated hectares of peaches
/l These are actual numbers of animals, not livestock units from which pasture-
carrying capacities can be derived.



- 60 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 3
produced Mex$50 million in 1978, and 3,400 hectares were producing peaches
under rainfed conditions. Valparaiso is also one of the principal oregano-
producing areas of Mexico.
12.         Altogether, roughly Mex$400 million were generated from crop
production in 1979. Though only 30% of the land is fertilized, the level
of mechanization is relatively high, with 200 tractors in service--four
times that or Tlaltenango. Nevertheless, in order to take advantage of
all available moisture, more heavy equipment is required. With proper
management, the water captured and stored by the dams and wells now in
existence is sufficient to double the irrigated area.
13.         About 374,000 ha are used for grazing--nearly 2 1/2 times the
total cultivated area. The value of livestock production, however, is not
quite double that of crop production. Studies conducted statewide show that
at least some of the land now used for grazing could be profitably cultivated.
14.         Seventy-nine percent of the forested area in Zacatecas is located
in Valparaiso. This significant resource has not yet been exploited.
15.         The principal investments for Valparaiso would be for soil and
water conservation, crop and livestock development, technical assistance,
adaptive research, and infrastructure for production of forest products.
Tlaltenango, Zacatecas
16.         The eight municipalities of Tlaltenango cover 4,000 km2 with
a population of 73,000 of which 76% is rural. Rainfall is generally low,
averaging 700 mm per year, distributed through the summer months of June
to September. Due to the dry conditions, livestock is the leading sector
in Tlaltenango. Over 200,000 hectares are grazed by 197,000 head of cattle.
There are 61,000 hogs in the region. Income from livestock is roughly Mex$500
million annually from beef cattle and Mex$40 million from pork production.
17.         Of the remaining 200,000 ha, 69,000 ha are suited to agriculture,
of which 3,200 ha are under irrigation. Of the remaining area with potential
for rainfed agriculture, only about two-thirds on average is cultivated,
due to farmers perception of risk of drought. Maize is the principal crop
during the summer, followed by oats and barley for fodder, groundnuts, beans, and
sorghum. In the winter months, wheat, barley, and oats are produced. Crops
generate about Mex$100 million per year.
18.         Most of the cultivated land in Tlaltenango is privately owned by
small farmers who hold an average of five hectares each. The productivity
of these small farms is limited by several factors. First, lack of technical
assistance results in the continuation of traditional rudimentary technologies
even in areas where small-scale irrigation systems have been installed.
Second, the vefy poor road system makes access to both inputs and markets
difficult; modern inputs are used only in small, irrigated areas, and most
farmers produce only for family consumption.



- 61 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 4
19.         PIDER investments would be directed at developing improved technical
packages, increasing technical assistance, improving the road system, providing
facilities for commercial produce marketing, and disseminating market
information to farmers.
Litoral Norte, Yucatan
20.         The micro-region of Litoral Norte, Yucatan, comprises 8,024 km2
divided into twelve municipalities. It had a population of 118,500 as of
1980, of which approximately 37% live in rural areas. About 41% of the land
area is owned by ejidos, 40% by small farmers, and 19% is state-owned.
Rainfall varies from a minimum of about 400 mm/year on the western coastal
strip to 1,300 mm/year in the southeast corner.
21.         Though the maximum altitude in the region is only about 800
meters, the terrain is rocky and the soil is shallow. To cope with these
unique and difficult conditions, a system was developed by the Mayans known as
milpa (footnote page 10), and this sytem continues to be used today. The milpa
system is one of mixed cropping, use of high levels of organic matter, and
long-term rotation--traditionally, fifteen years of fallow are required to
regenerate enough fertility to maintain maximum maize yield levels. In any
given year, approximately 15,000 hectares are cultivated to maize out of a
total of roughly 650,000 hectares of ejidal and private land in the micro-
region. An additional characteristic of the milpa system is its labor-
intensiveness: almost 100 work-days are required for one hectare of milpa per
season. Maize yields average 500 to 600 kg per hectare, but range from 200 to
1,500 kg per hectare. This extreme variation is due to differences in rainfall
as well as variations in soil fertility.
22.         In addition to maize, beans represent a major portion of food
production. Sisal, a traditionally important crop, has been cultivated less
in recent years, in favor of fruit, vegetables, and livestock. Fruit and
vegetable production have become increasingly important recently, representing
nearly 32% of agricultural production in 1979. Additional potential exists
for further development of these crops.
23.         The real economic potential in the micro-region lies in the
reduction of the fallow period in the milpa cultivation system, the improvement
of maize yields, and the development of lands given to fruit and vegetable
production. Systematic research to improve yields with the milpa system
has only just begun, though several better-yielding varieties have resulted
from farmers' own experimentation.
24.         Due to the difficult soil conditions as well as to the favorable
local beef prices, livestock has been the fastest growing sector in the micro-
region. In 1978, there were about 400,000 head of beef cattle, an increase
of 200% since 1970. 218,000 hectares--one quarter the total land area of the
region--were used for grazing. Since most of the beef is exported from the



- 62 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 5
region while 40% of the locally consumed maize must be imported, PIDER III
investments would improve the balance of the region's rural economy by
emphasizing activities other than livestock. By strengthening the marketing
system for produce, as well as the agricultural extension system, it is
hoped that crop cultivation will become more financially competitive with
livestock production. Because of the decline of sisal production, there is
an excess supply of rural labor. In order to absorb this excess in economic
pursuits, plans have been made to expand the fishing industry in the area.
Investments would be made to purchase more fishing vessels, to expand and
improve port facilities, and to increase fish-processing capacity. Another
area which will receive assistance is beekeeping, which has experienced
substantial growth recently, and development of which will help to further
balance the economy.
Sur de Yucatan, Yucatan
25.         Sur de Yucatan comprises 9,000 km2 with eight municipalities in
the southernmost triangle of the state. Of the population of 96,000, only
23% is classified as rural. Most of the land is privately owned--only
38% of the land is under ejido ownership. About 108,400 ha are dedicated
to agriculture, with 6,400 hectares of irrigated land.
26.         The region may be divided into two zones, based on soil type rather
than climate (rainfall varies between 900 mm to 1,200 mm annually). The
northern portion has a rocky soil which cannot be irrigated, and where the
milpa system dominates (see description under Litoral Norte). The southern
portion is suitable for fruit and vegetable cultivation with some mechanization.
The latter zone produces a substantial quantity of oranges, lemons, grapefruit,
mango, papaya, avocado, melons, tomatoes, and chiles. Fruit, vegetable, and
sugar cane production are all being heavily promoted. There has been a growing
problem with soil salinity, but there is great potential for further production
increase, if this can be controlled. In the northern zone, development depends
on improvements in the milpa system. The potential for expanding livestock
production is minimal.
27.         Due to the relative isolation of the region, marketing represents
a serious constraint to increased production of perishable fruits and vegetables.
To help overcome this problem, a citrus processing plant is now under
construction. Extension agents must exert caution with respect to the mix of
crops to be introduced in the newly opened irrigation areas in order to avoid
exacerbating the problem of market saturation at harvest time. In addition,
technical assistance and credit are inadequate for annual crop production. By
improving these two important factors, a significant increase in traditional
crop productivity could be generated.
Atoyac, Guerrero
28.         The micro-region Atoyac is comprised of four municipalities totaling
6,114 km2. It includes about 150 kilometers of coastline on the Pacific
Ocean. Sixty percent of its population of 178,000 is classified as rural.



- 63 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 6
Rainfall is extremely variable, ranging from 900 to 2,400 mm annually.
29.         The region may be divided into three distinct agro-ecological
zones. The fertile coastal strip, which ranges in altitude from sea level
to 400 meters, is suitable for fruit orchards and coconut plantations. The
principal fruits grown in this zone are mangos, citrus, papaya, and guanabana.
The trees are generally intercropped with annuals--traditionally with maize
and sesame, but increasingly with melons and vegetables in response to rising
demand from nearby urban centers.
30.         The adjacent zone ranges from 400 to 700 meters in the Sierra,
where maize and associated crops are cultivated more generally. Orchards
are still important in this zone, however, with avocado and tamarind being
cultivated in addition to the fruits found in the lower zone.
31.         Between 700 and 1,500 meters, 25,600 ha are cultivated with
coffee--the principal crop in this zone. Coffee producers in Atoyac have
an average of 5 ha each, with relatively low yields--400 kg per ha, compared
with the national average of 600 kg per ha. Interspersed with the coffee
plantations are avocado, guanabana, oranges, and bananas.
32.         There is some livestock production throughout the region, with
poultry the most important activity. About 500,000 birds are fattened as
broilers annually, beef cattle number about 100,000 head, and hogs number
50,000.
33.         Several constraints to development exist for both crops and
livestock. Technical packages adapted to local conditions have either not
been identified, or have not been passed on to extensionists, whose recom-
mendations are often not considered appropriate by farmers. In addition,
the extension service lacks sufficient trained personnel, and inputs are
not readily available. The result of these factors is that technologies
throughout the area are generally traditional. Many coconut palms and coffee
plants are old and require rehabilitation or replanting to reverse the trend
of declining yields. There is also considerable potential for expanded
coffee development. Finally, the marketing system must be improved to handle
the perishable fruits and vegetables. The major problems in livestock
production are stock quality and animal health. PIDER III investments have
been designed to address each of these problems. In addition, some investments
will be made to help develop the small fishing industry.
Costa Chica, Guerrero
34.         Costa Chica comprises seven municipalities with a total area of
4,309 km2. Like Atoyac, it borders on the Pacific Ocean, with 70 km of
coastline. Altitudes range from sea level to 650 meters, but most of the
region lies between 150 and 300 meters. Of the population of 164,000, 80%
is rural, but population densities are rather high due to the relative
attractiveness of the region for agriculture. The climate is hot and humid;



- 64 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 7
rainfall averages 1,200 mm per year. Soils are of volcanic origin and
drainage is a problem in some areas. There are three agricultural zones
in the region. A narrow, 10-kilometer-wide strip along the coast produces
most of the agricultural output. The adjacent 10 kilometers is heavily
eroded and has poor soils, or lack of topsoil. The third zone is hilly and
jagged. In the valleys of the small mountains or hills, patches of suitable
agricultural land can be found, but in general the second and third zones are
dedicated to livestock production.
35.         It is estimated that there are 210,000 ha with agricultural
potential in the region, but only about 61,000 ha are actually cultivated.
Of this area, 76% is given to maize, 15% to coconut palm, 5% to beans, and 4%
to fruit and other crops. A little over 8,000 ha are irrigated. In most
areas, technical assistance and modern inputs are not readily available.
Total crop production amounts to about Mex$1 billion annually, 60% of which is
generated by copra. Of the remaining 40%, 20% is generated by maize and
sesame, and 20% by fruit crops.
36.         Some livestock is raised in the area, but only poultry fattening
is done on a significant scale.
37.         Since levels of productivity are low, PIDER investments would
be concentrated on land development, technical assistance, and the basic
infrastructure for access to inputs and markets.



MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDnER III
Components, Main Executing Agencies, and Disbursement Categories
Project Components                             Main Executing Agencies                                                   Disbursement Categories
1. Directly Productive Investment
Irrigation                                   SARH-OHDR-DGDUT/Credit Institutions                           Civil works/technical assistance/medium-term credit
Soil and Water Conservation                  SARH-DGCSA-DGDUT/Credit Institutions                          Civil works/medium-term credit
Fruit Crop Development                       CONAFRUT/SARH-DGDUT-Extension/Credit Institutions             Civil works/agricultural inputs/technical assistance/medium-term credit
Coffee Development                           INMECAFE/SARH-Extension/Credit Institutions                   Agricultural inputs/technical assistance/medium-term credit
Coconut Development                          IGC/SARH-Extension/Credit Institutions                        Technical assistance/agricultural inputs/medium-term credit
Livestock Development                        SARH-DGDUT/Credit Institutions                                Civil works, equipment/technical assistance/medium-term credit
Fisheries                                    PPM/Credit Institutions                                       Civil works, equipment/technical assistance, training/medium-term credit
Forestry                                     SARH-DGDUT-Forestry-Extension                                 Technical assistance/medium-term credit
Rural Industries                             SARH/Agro-industries                                          Civil works/technical assistance, training/medium-term credit
Development Credit                           BANRURAL/FIRA/Other Credit Institutions                       Medium-term credit
2. Productive Support Investment
Extension and Applied Research               SARH-DGDUT-Extension/INIA/INIP  (Applied Research)            Equipment and vehicles, technical assistance (operational cost), training
Marketing                                    CONASUPO-BORUCONSA                                            Civil works and equipment
Beneficiary Organization                     SPP/SARH/SARH                                                 Equipment and vehicles, operational cost, training
Rural Roads                                  SAHOP                                                         Civil works, equipment
Rural Electrification                        CFE                                                           Civil works, equipment
Productive Projects for Women             .  SPP (agency to be identified)                                 Equipment, technical assistance and training
Feasibility and Baseline Studies             SPP-Executing Agencies                                        Studies
3 Social I,,frastructure
Education Facilities                         CAPFCE                                                        Civil works, equipment
Health Facilities /1                         SSA                                                           /1
Nutrition                                    SARH/IMSS/SSA                                                 Vehicles, equipment, technical assistance, baseline studies
Water Supply                                 SAHOP                                                         Civil works, equipment
Self-Help /1                                 SPP/Other Executing Agencies                                  /1
/1  Expenditures covered by project but not reimbursed under Bank loan.



- 66 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 1
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
Agricultural Production, Benefits, and Crop Budgets
Introduction
1.          This section serves to illustrate the analytical technique applied
to the crops component for each of the eight micro-regions chosen for appraisal.
The Mocorito-Badiraguato-Culiacan micro-regions data is used as an example.
The methodology used in this analysis correlates to that presented in Chapter VII.
Only the direct participants are considered in the economic analysis--
benefits accruing to indirect participants are not included. Direct
participants are those whose land is improved through some form of soil and
water conservation, land clearing, or small-scale irrigation. Table 4 shows
the pattern of uptake rate for Mocorito. Rates of adoption would vary somewhat
across micro-regions. The anaLysis does not present overall regional average
yields, but only those for land directly improved by project investments.
Before embarking on the Mocorito analysis, however, farm level crop budgets
are presented for all eight of the pilot micro-regions. These budgets present
the before-project input levels as well as the input levels and yields expected
at full adoption for both rainfed and irrigated lands. The Mocorito example
uses the Sinaloa budgets.
Farm Level
2.          Crop Budgets.  In order to calculate farmer benefits derived
from agricultural investments, crop budget analyses are required. In each of
the eight micro-regions, the planning team prepared such budgets for all of
the principal crops. In some cases these budgets were provided by SARH, based
upon field surveys or extension agent estimates and recommendations. In other
instances, the budgets were provided by CONAFRUT or INMECAFE. To ensure
consistency, SPP agronomists reviewed them and made some logical adjustments
and corrections. Moreover, the mission agriculturalists made some additional
revisions. Principal crop budgets are presented for each state. Total
variable costs in the table are the sum of all mechanization, material inputs,
and hired labor costs. Gross margins are calculated by value of product less
total variable costs, using local market price estimates. Family labor is
derived by subtracting hired labor from the per-hectare total labor value
imputed by the mission-s agriculturalists after consultation with the SPP
agronomists.
3.          Recommendations for application of fertilizer vary somewhat in
quantity and type across micro-regions. In Zacatecas, fertilizer recom-
mendations average 120 kg of nitrogeni and 60 kg of phosphorus for improved
maize and around 60 kg and 40 kg respectively for beans. (The most common
fertilizers are Ammonium Nitrate, Triple Superphosphate, and Urea.)
Fertilization rates are somewhat lower in Yucatan for maize and beans, but the
vegetables are quite heavily fertilized there, with up to 360 kg of nitrogen



- 67 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 2
per hectare. Fertilizer rates in Sinaloa for maize and beans are
about half the rates used in Zacatecas and Yucatan. Chemical insecticides
and fungicides also differ widely. Parathion, Malathion, Sevin, and Manzate
are the most common,but several others are used, depending upon conditions
in each region. The budget analyses in most cases specify what is recommended.
Although hired labor is listed with a cash value, money transfer does not
always take place. Labor based on interchanges within the extended family
and payments-in-kind are both considered as hired labor. Hired labor is
valued at the local agricultural wage rate.
4.          Input Costs.  The major costs for annual crop production include
land preparation, seeding, fertilizing, cultivation, pest control, and
harvesting. The material inputs are seeds, fertilizers, and chemicals.
The rest is land, labor, mechanization, and water which may be provided from
owned resources, through exchange (labor sharing) or from local hire (hired
labor, rented land, tractor services, and water charges). For annual crops in
semi-arid regions-, yield increases are closely correlated to seeding densities
and fertilization rates. These are costly inputs, which the farmer accepts
reluctantly at first until assured that uncertainties which could lead to cash
losses are covered by the system. Hence, input costs rise slowly following
the pattern of the S-shaped, logarithmic curve until full adoption is reached.
It should be noted that as land improvements are made, mechanization becomes
feasible and displaces labor in some cases (particularly in the case of
beans). Tables IA through 1D present the budget analyses for input quantities
and values at traditional input levels (without project) and at full adoption
(with project). Since detailed research has not been carried out to determine
yield levels corresponding to partial input levels, estimates were made of the
number of years required for full adoption, and then yields and costs were
taken proportionately over this period. This accounts more realistically for
the adoption process than would the usual assumption of full development costs
for the first year of production.
Micro-Regional Level - An Example
5.          Land Development.  The maior agricultural activities in Mocorito
which PIDER would support are land development projects. The three principal
components include improving or rehabilitating rainfed areas, developing
new lands for rainfed crops, and opening up new small-scale irrigation
sites. It is assumed that subsistence crops were previously grown in areas
identified as improved rainfed. Hence, Table 1 presents the corresponding
acreages for the "before project" situation. Since plums and prickly pears
are new introductions for the improved rainfed areas, they do not appear in
the traditional acreage list. Total traditional rainfed acreage equals the
total improved ralrifed area--new rainfed or irrigation is assumed to have
been under forest or grassland of negligible productivity prior to
development.   The various crops which would be introduced under each program
with their respective hectareages are listed in Table 2. In those cases
where mixed-cropping systems may be encountered, the crop listed represents
the principal crop cultivated.



- 68 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 3
6.          Yields.  Yield levels for the baseline productivity rate are
generally provided by SARH, and drawn from local farm surveys of the preceding
season. These baseline Levels are then adjusted for drought. In this case,
the previous season had good rainfall and gave average maize per-hectare
yields of 1,000 kg. Since drought in this area is severe one year in five
(resulting in yields of 0% of 1,000 kg/ha) and moderate another year (50% of
1,000) with adequate rainfall in the remaining three years (100% of 1,000),
the weighted average yield would be 700 kg/ha. For this reason, all initial
yields have been adjusted accordingly and are presented in Table 1, and are
the first-year yield in Table 3.
7.          Autonomous Adoption.  Research stations are continually generating
new varieties and methods of fertilizer applications for increasing yields.
In spite of the fact that these new technologies may not be completely adjusted
to local conditions, it is certain that some technological improvements would
reach the farmers over time even with no additional extension effort. Hence,
it would be expected that some productivity increase would be generated over
time without the project. This is called autonomous adoption and becomes the
project's baseline output level. Autonomous productivity rates are presented
in Table 1 over fifteen years.
8.          Direct Participants.  The project in the Mocorito micro-region
focuses development expenditures on soil and water conservation in rainfed
areas, and on opening up new rainfed and small-scale irrigation areas. Those
farmers who have land which is directly affected by these developments are the
direct participants of the project. In theory, most of their production
constraints are overcome and they should use the proper inputs immediately in
order to obtain the highest possible yields. Since not all production risks
are eliminated, however, and since the farmers need a few seasons to adjust
from little or no modern inputs to improved seed and fertilizer and chemical
applications, a gradual uptake rate is projected.
9.          Volume of Production.  Table 5 shows the total volume of production
projected for the micro-region for the fifteen-year period considered. Maize
yields reach full development in the eighth year, and from then on a total of
20,190 tons of maize would be produced (including both rainfed and irrigated).
This represents a 250% increase over production projections (or the "without
project" situation (Table 2)). Production of beans is projected to more than
double. In addition, some 3,800 tons of fruits (plum, nopal, and avocado)
and 1,700 tons of oleaginous seeds (safflower and sesame) would be produced
annually. Thus, project interventions would significantly increase production
of both subsistence staples and new cash crops.
10.         Net Benefits to Farmers.  To calculate the value of production,
yields are multiplied by hectareages, and then by local financial prices. This
calculation is presented in Table 7. Net benefits to farmers are calculated
by subtracting the cost of inputs from the value of output. These calculations
are made for the with- and without-project situation. These cash flows appear
in Tables 2 and 7 respectively. Net incremental farmer benefits can be
derived by subtracting the total of without project benefits from with project
benefits. This cash flow stream is found in Table 8.



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
11.         Additional Benefits.  The calculation of net incremental farmer
benefits only accounts for output from single cropping for one season per
year. In fact, 15% to 30% of the maize area is intercropped with beans.
The beans receive the same additional joint inputs as does the maize crop,
and the benefit of these inputs is therefore multiplied. These benefits
have not been included in the analysis. Secondly, as better soil and water
conservation measures are introduced and as new land is brought into
production, the potential for double cropping increases. Lastly, when tree
crops are introduced, annual crops are intermixed during the years prior to
fruit tree maturity, to take advantage of the irrigation works and under-
utilized land under the tree stands. Moreover, the annual crops interplanted
are most often high yielding vegetable crops because of the irrigation
facilities.



MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
Crop Budgets Per Hectare/a
State: Sinaloa
Maize                               Beans                     Groundnuts             Sesamne          Safflower       Pluns
Rainfed         Irrigation          Rainfed         Irrigation          Rainfed             Rainfed           Irrigation   Rainfed
Crop Level Technology              Without    With                     Without    With                     Without    With       Without    With                      With
_roject   Projet                    Pect ct   Project                   Projet   Project   Project   Project                      Project
Value of Inputs
Land Preparation/Mechanization        450        916        1,636         600        980        2,230         600        87h        600        876        1,096           -
Seeds                                 180        210          270         800      1,200        1,400       2,900      3,344        140        140          360           -
Fertilizers                             -        485          703           -        450          573           -        320          -        304          500       1,785
Chemicals                                        223          340           -        124          124                    420          -        116          300         900
Irrigation                              -          -        1,400           -          -          920           -          -          -      1,400            -           -
Hired Labor
Workdays                             23.7       31.6         35.5        30.4       20.5         33.4        27.6       34.1       17.9       19.9         27.8        50.7
Cost /b                             2,440      3,006        3,371      2,870       1,946        3,173       2,620      3,240      1,700      1,894        2,644       4,815 o
Family Labor
Workdays                              6.3       23.4         34.5         9.9       14.5         26.6        22.4       40.9       12.1       30.3         27.2        20.0
Cost /c                               599      2,219        3,279         941      1,379        2,527       2,130      3,885      1,150      2,856        2,581       1,900
Total Variable Costs /d               2,870      4,840        7,720       4,240      4,700        8,420       6,120      8,200      2,440      3,330        6,300       7,500
Yields (tons)                            .7        1.8          3.5         0.4        0.8          1.6         1.3        1.7        0.3        0.7          2.2         5.3
Price (kg)                              4.46       -            -          12.00       -            -          13.00       -         11.50       -            6.00        4.5
Value Product                         3,122      7,582       15,610       4,800      9,600       13,472      16,900    22,100       3,450      8,050       13,200       23,850
Gross Margin                            252      2,742        7,890         560      4,900        5,052      10,780    13,900       1,010      4,720        6,900      14,350
TOTAL LABOR (WORKDAYS)                   30         55           70          40         35           60           50        75         30         50           55        70.7
/a All costs, prices, and values in Mexican pesos.
/b At local wage rate of Mex$95.00.
/c  At local wage rate for those areas where labor is scarce; 1/2 wage rate for all others.                                                                                 H3B
/d  Total variable costs do not include family wages.                                                                                                                       a z
>~ m



MEXICO
TNTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRCJECT =_PIDER III
Crop Budgets Per Ilectarc
State: Guerrero
Coconut
Palm                                               Maize      Beans
Crop Level Technology                   'ango                       (Copra)             Oranges            Cashew    Wlithout   Without
Irrigation       Coffee/e   Irrigation   Rainfed   Irripatioc    Rainfed   Project   PaJrolct
Value of Inputs
Land Pieparaticn/Mfeclar-ization          500                           600         800         1,500         500         470
Seeds                                        -              _-                         -             -           -         170        700
Fertilizers                              1,400            763         2,160            -           213           -           -          --
Chemicals                                  501            573            980           -         1,337         600           -          --
Irrigation                               1,100             -          1,259            -           657           -           -          -
Hired Labor
Workdays                                  39.0            160           28.8        43.5          87.3           40       26.7        38.1
Cost/b                                   3,900        16,030           9, 880      4,350         8,730       1,000       2,670      3,810
Family Labor                                                                                                                                  F
Wlorkdays                                   20             30             20        76.5          62.7           20        8.3         6.9   1
Cost/c                                   2,000          3,000          2,000       7,650         6,270        2,000        830         690
Total Variable Costs/d                     7,401         17,366          7,879       5,150        12,437        5,100      3,310       4,950
Yields                                       P.O             .9            2.5         5.0          10.0          3.5          .8         .4
Price/kg                                     5.0           76.3           11.3         4.0           4.0         11.3        4.46      12.00
Value Product                                                                                                              3,568      4,800
ross Margin                              3'',599       48,304         17,371       14 850       29,563       32*L50         258        150
'0TAL  APOR (,  (LAYS)                        50            100             49         120           153          (0          35         (5
/a All costs, prices, and values in Mexican pesos.
ib  At local wage rate of Mex$100.00.
c  At local wage rate for t'iose areas -Inere labor is scarce; 1/2 wage rate for all othelrs
/d  Total variable cost do not include family wages.
,'e  Coffee considered in 8th year of production.
(D X
FN 14



MEXICO
INTEGlRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
Crop Budgets Per Hectare a
State: Zacatecas
Maize                                     Beans
Rainfed            Irrigation             Rainfed             Irrigation
Crop Level Technology                  Without       With                        Without       With
Project      Project                      Project      Project
Value of Inputs
Land Preparation/Mechanization          340          610          1,140           440        1,108           1,108
Seeds                                   150          315            315           600           800            800
Fertilizers                               -        1,387          1,560             -           778          1,043
Chemicals                                 -           95            142             -           133            133
Irrigation                                -            -            353             -            -             227
Hired Labor
Workdays                               21.9         24.3             421         28.5          18.8           50.1
Cost/b                                2,190        2,433          4,210          2,850        1,881          5,009
Family Labor
Workdays                                8.1         30.7            27.9          11.5         12.5           15.0
Cost/c                                  810        3,070           2,790        1,150         1,250          1,500
Total Variable Costs/d                  2,500        4,840           7,720         3,890        4,700          8,420
Yields (tons)                             0.6          1.7             3.5           0.4          0.8            1.6
Price (Mex$/kg)                           4.46         -              -             12.00         -
Value Product                           2,676        7,582         15,610          4,800        9,600         19,200
Gross Margin                              176        2,742          7,890            910        4,900         10,780
TOTAL LABOR (WORKDAYS)                     30           55              70            40         31.3           65.1
/a  All costs, prices, and values in Mexican pesos.
/b  At local wage rate of Mex$100.00.
/c  At local wage rate for those areas where labor is scarce; 1/2 wage rate for all others.
/d  Total variable costs do not include family wages.
r



- 73 -                                     ANNE  '
Taol] 
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
Crop Budget Per Hectare'-
State: Yucatan
Maize                   Melon         Tomaic s
Rainfed         Irrigation   Irrigation  jrrirt on
Crop Level Technology                Without    With
Project   Project
Value of Inputs
Land Preparation/Mechanization            -        300        1,000         1,000         1,3t
Seeds                                   315        420          440           700         1,12)
Fertilizers                               -        800        1,350         2,600         2,4ClO
Chemicals                                 -        400          872         3,240         2,5502
Irrigation                                -          -        1,100         1,550         3,00C
Hired Labor
Workdays                               37.8       41.4         49.2         130.1         1177.1
Cost/b                                2,995      2,900        3,938        10,410         9,42'-
Family Labor
Workdays                               32.2       18.6         30.8          50.0          6?.
Cost,'c                               2,254      1,302        2,462         4,000         4,97
Total Variahle Cost/d                   2,961      4,820        8,700        19,500        19,5C7
Yield                                       .8       1.8          3.5    .  17,000         16,00C
Price/kg                                  4.55       -            -             3.00              0
Value Product                           3,640      8,190       15,925        50,400        50,40
Gross Margin                              679      3,370        7,225        30,900        30,9C0
TOTAL LABOR (WORKDAYS)                     70         60           80           180            1W
/a  All costs, prices, and values in Mexican pesos.
/b  At local wage rate of Mex$80.00.
/c  At local wage rate for those areas where labor is scarce; 1/2 wage rate for all other
/d  Total variable costs do not include family wages.



- 74 -
ANNEX 4
Tab le 2
ME XI CO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRCGRAM -- PIDER III
CROP-PRODUCTION
MICRO-REGION: MOCORITO (SINALOA)
WITHOUT PIDER
YEAR            1981        1982   1983-1984   1985-1987   1988-1990   1991-1992   1993-1995
AREA CULTIVATED (HA)
MAIZE                     3020.0      5730.0      9480.0      9480.0      9480.0      9480.0      9480.0
BEANS                     1130.0      2110.0      3500.0      3500.0      3500.0      3500.0      3500.0
SESAME                     610.0      1090.0      1830.0      1830.0      1830.0      1830.0      1830.0
YIELD (TON/HA) (1)
MAIZE                        0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.8         0.8         0.9
BEANS                        0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5
SESAME                       0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.4
VOL. OF PROD. (TON)
MAIZE                     2114.0      4011.0      6636.0      6636.0      7584.0      7584.0      8532.0
BEANS                     452.0        844.o      1400.0      1400.0      1400.0      1750.0      1750.0
SESAME                     183.0       327.0       549.0       549.0       549.0       732.0       732.0
VALUE OF PROD.
MAIZE                     9513.0    18723.3    30976.8    31945.7        36509.4    36509.4    41073.0
BEANS                     4068.0      7596.0     12600.0     12600.0     12600.0     15750.0    15750.0
SESAME                   2196.0       3924.0      6588.0      6588.0      6588.0      8784.0      8784.0
COST OF PROD.
MAIZE                     9180.8     17419.2    28819.2    28819.2    30715.2    30715.2    32611.2
BEANS                     4746.0      8862.0     14700.0     14700.0    14700.0      16100.0    16100.0
SESAME                    1488.4      2659.6      4465.2      4465.2      4465.2      4831.2      4831.2
NET BENEFIT                  361.8      1302.5      2180.4      3149.3      5817.0      9397.0    12064.6
(1) ASSUMES AN AUTONOMOUS RATE OF ADOPTION.
(2) ALL VALUES IN THOUSANDS OF MEXICAN PESOS.
(3) COST INCREASE REFLECTS ADOPTION RATE.



ANNEX 4
Table 3
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PIDER III
-------------------------------------------------
CROP_PRODUCTION
MICRO-REGION: MOCORITO (SINALOA)
________________________________
WIIH PIDER -- AREA CULTIVATED (HA)
----------------------------------
-------------------------------------------_----------------
YEAR                  1981             1982    1983-1995
------------------------------------------------------------
IMPROVED RAINFED
MAIZE                               3020.0           5640.0          9350.0
BEANS                               1130.0          2110.0           3500.0
SESAME                               570.0          1060.0           1750.0
PLUM                                    0.0            30.0             80.0
NOPAL                                 40.0             90.0            130.0
NEW RAINFED
MAIZE                                   0.0           500.0            700.0
BEANS                                   0.0           300.0           550.0
NEW IRRIGATED
MAIZE                                  90.0           250.0            600.0
BEANS                                  60.0           160.0            370.0
SAFFLOWER                             40.0            100.0           230.0
AVOCADO                              140.0            170.0           240.0



MEXICO
INTEGRATED  RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRCGRAM  -   PIDER  III
-------------------------------------------------
CROP_PRODUCTION
MICRO-REGION: MOCORITO (SINALOA)
________________________________
WITH  PIDER  --  YIELDS  (MT/HA)
____________________________
------------------------------------------------__---------------------------__-----------------------------------------------__----------------
YEAR                  1981             1982            1983             1984             1985            1986             1987             1988            1989    1990-1995
IMPROVED RAINFED
MAIZE                                   0.7              0.8             0.9              1.0              1.2              1.5             1.7              1.8             1.8              1.8
BEANS                                   0.4              0.5             0.5              0.6              0.7             0.7              0.8             0.8              0.8              0.8
SESAME                                  0.3              0.4             0.5              0.6              0.6             0.7              0.7             0.7              0.7              0.7
PLUM                                    0.0             0.0              0.0              0.8              1.1             1.9              2.5             3.2              4.5              5.3
NOPAL                                   0.0              0.0             3.0              4.2             6.2              9.3             11.4            12.0             12.0            12.0
NEW  RAINFED
MAIZE                                   0.0              0.0              1.0             1.1              1.4              1.7             1.8              1.8             1.8              1.8
BEANS                                   0.0              0.0             0.5              0.6              0.7             0.8              0.8              0.8             0.8              0.8
NEW IRRIGATED
MAIZE                                   0.0              2.5             2.6              2.7              2.9             3.2              3.5              3.5             3.5              3.5
BEANS                                   0.0              1.1              1.2             1.2              1.3             1.5              1.6              1.6             1.6              1.6
SAFFLOWER                               0.0              1.8              1.8             1.9              2.0             2.1              2.2             2.2              2.2              2.2
AVOCADO                                 0.0              0.0             0.0              1.0              2.7             3.3              4.9              6.8             7.6              8.0



MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PIDER III
-------------------------------------------------
CROP-PRODUCTION
MICRO-REGION: MOCORITO (SINALOA)
WITH PIDER -- VOLIM4E OF PRCDUCTION (MT)
YEAR            1981        1982        1983        1984        1985        1986        1987        1988        1989   1990-1995
IMPROVED RAINFED
MAIZE                     2114.0      4512.0      8415.0      9350.0     11220.0     14025.0    15895.0      16830.0     16830.0     16830.0
BEANS                     452.0       1055.0      1750.0     2100.0       2450.0      2450.0      2800.0      2800.0      2800.0      2800.0
SESAME                     171.0       424.0      875.0       1050.0      1050.0      1225.0      1225.0      1225.0      1225.0      1225.0
PLUM                        0.0          0.0        0.0         64.0        88.0       152.0       200.0       256.0       360.0       424.0
NOPAL                        0.0         0.0       390.0       546.0       806.0      1209.0      1482.0      1560.0      1560.0      1560.0
NEW RAINFED
MAIZE                        0.0         0.0       700.0       770.0       980.0      1190.0      1260.0      1260.0      1260.0      1260.0
BEANS                       0.0          0.0       275.0       330.0       385.0       440.0       440.0       440.0       440.0       440.0
NEW IRRIGATED
MAIZE                        0.0       625.0      1560.0      1620.0      1740.0      1920.0      2100.0      2100.0      2100.0      2100.0
BEANS                        0.0       176.0       407.0       444.0       481.0       555.0       592.0       592.0       592.0       592.0
SAFFLOWER                   0.0        180.0       414.0      437.0        460.0       483.0       506.0       506.0       506.0       506.0
AVOCADO                      0.0         0.0         0.0       240.0       648.0       792.0      1176.0      1632.0      1824.0      1920.0
H'1¢



MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PIDER III
-------------------------------------------------
CROP PRODUCTION
MICRO-REGION: MOCORITO (SINALOA)
________________________________
WITH PIDER -- VALUE OF PRCDUCTION (THOUSANDS OF PESOS)
YEAR            1981         1982        1983        1984         1985        1986         1987        1988        1989   1990-1995
IMPROVED RAINFED
MAIZE                     9513.0      21062.0     39281.2      43645.8     54013.1     67516.4      765 18.5    81019.6     81019.6      81019.6
BEANS                     4068.0       9495.0     15750.0      18900.0     22050.0     22050.0      25200.0     25200.0     25200.0      25200.0
SESAME                    2052.0       5088.0     10500.0     12600.0      12600.0     14700.0      14700.0     14700.0     14700.0      14700.0
PLUM                         0.0          0.0         0.0       288.0        396.0       684.0        900.0      1152.0      1620.0       1908.0             o
NOPAL                        0.0          0.0      1560.0      2184.0       3224.0      4836.0       5928.0      6240.0      6240.0       6240.0
NEW RAINFED
MAIZE                         0.0         0.0      3267.6       3594.4      4717.7      5728.7       6065.6      6065.6      6065.6       6065.6
BEANS                        0.0          0.0      2475.0      2970.0       3465.0      3960.0       3960.0      3960.0      3960.0       3960.0
NEW IRRIGATED
MAIZE                         0.0      2917.5      7282.1V     7562.2       8376.4      9242.9      10109.4     10109.4     10109.4      10109.4
BEANS                        0.0       1584.0      3663.0      3996.0       4329.0      4995.0       5328.0      5328.0      5328.0       5328.0
SAFFLOWER                     0.0      1260.0      2898.0      3059.0       3220.0      3381.0       3542.0      3542.0      3542.0       3542.0
AVOCADO                       0.0         0.0         0.0       1440.0      3888.0      4752.0       7056.0      9792.0     10944.0      11520.0
a- z
I-  t'
(D X
ax3



MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PIDER III
-------------------------------------------------
CROP-PRODUCTION
MICRO-REGION: MOCORITO (SINALOA)
________________________________
WITH PIDER -- COSTS (THOUSANDS OF PESOS)
YEAR             1981         1982         1983         1984          1985         1986         1987         1988         1989   1990-1995
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-------__-----------------------------------------------------------------
INVESTMENT                   41743.0      42667.0      37705.0           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
OPERATING                    15735.7      33818.0      66551.8      69705.1      74561.0      81859.4       83624.4      84623.5      84669.9      847717.9
IMPROVED RAINFED
MAIZE                       9180.8      18273.6      32164.0      34034.0      37774.0      43384.0       44319.0      45254.0      45254.0      45254.0
BEANS                       5164.1     . 9706.0      16100.0      16205.0      16310.0      16310.0       16450.0      16450.0      16450.0      16450.0
SESAME                      1390.8       2798.4       4970.0       5320.0       5320.0       5827.5        5827.5       5827.5       5827.5       5827.5
PLUM                           0.0          0.0           0.0       258.4        294.4         381.6        458.4        505.6        552.0        600.0
NOPAL                          0.0          0.0        982.8       1077.7       1188.2        1335.1       1400.1       1417.0       1417.0       1417.0
NEW RAINFED
MAIZE                          0.0           0.0      2548.0       2688.0       3108.0        3318.0       3388.0       3388.0       3388.0       3388.0
BEANS                          0.0          0.0       2530.0       2546.5       2563.0       2585.0        2585.0       2585.0       2585.0       2585.0
NEW IRRIGATED
MAIZE                          0.0       1500.0       3702.0       3804.0       4014.0        4368.0       4632.0       4632.0       4632.0       4632.0
BEANS                          0.0       1040.0       2405.0       2545.6       2689.9       2974.8       3115.4        3115.4       3115.4       3115.4
SAFFLOWER                      0.0        500.0       1150.0       1225.9       1299.5       1375.4       1449.0        1449.0       1449.0       1449.0
AVOCADO                        0.0          0.0          0.0       1953.6       2618.4       2779.2        3602.4       3398.4       3460.8       3528.0
OFF-FARM COSTS
EXTENSION                     6590.0       7383.0       8631.0       8631.0       4316.0         725.0        725.0        725.0        725.0        725.0
FARMER ORG. & TRAINING        1835.0       2200.0       2640.0       2640.0        1320.0        530.0        530.0        530.0        530.0        530.0
NET BENEFIT                 -50270.7    -44661.5    -28850.9        17309.6      37463.8      55952.3      70825.8      77831.8       79343.0      80091.8
()  C
(1) COSTS ADJUSTED FOR ECONOMIC ANALYSIS.



MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRCGRAM - PIDER III
-------------------------------------------------
CROP-PRODUCTION
MICRO-REGION: MOCORITO (SINALOA)
________________________________
WITH PIDER -- INCREMENTAL BENEFITS AND COSTS (THOUSANDS OF PESOS)
YEAR              1981          1982          1983          1984          1985          1986          1987          1988         1989          1990    1991-1992       1993-1995
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _- - - - - - - _ _- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_ _ - - - - - - -_   - - - - - - - - - - - -
VOL. OF PROD.
MAIZE                            0.0        1126.0        4039.0        5104.0       7304.0       10499.0       126 19.0      126006.0      12606.0       12606.0       12606.0        11658.0
BEANS                            0.0         387.0        1032.0        1474.0       1916.0        2045.0        2432.0        2432.0        2432.0        2432.0        2082.0         2082.0
g
VALUE OF PRCID. (1)
____________________
VALUE OF PRO).                   -144.0       11163.2       36512.1       50074.5       69145.5       90712.2     108173.9      111411.3      113031.3      113895.3      108549.3       103985.6
ON-FARM COSTS
COST OF PRCD.                     320.5        4877.2       18567.4       21720.7       26576.6       33875.0       35640.0      34743.1       34789.5       34837.5       33071.5        31175.5
NET BENEFTT                   -50632.5    -45964.0    -31031.3           15129.2      34314.5       52803.0       67676.5       72014.8       73526.0       74274.8       70694.8        68027.1
cr 2
0C A



- 81 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
Project Cost Estimates
1.          The total project cost over the three-year project is estimated at
US$506.0 million, of which US$96.0 million, or 19 percent represents the foreign
exchange cost. The baseline costs, estimated at US$325.0 million, are based
on detailed plans of eight micro-regions and extrapolated for the remaining
nine micro-regions. Baseline estimates are based on June 1980 prices.
Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10 percent of baseline costs for
construction, civil works, machinery, and equipment. Price contingencies have
been based on the Bank's revised estimates (as of October 1980) of domestic
and international inflation (para 6.02). Project costs are summarized on
page 39.
2.          Total cost estimates and investment phasing by component for
the seventeen micro-regions are shown in Table 1 of this Annex. Table 2
shows the percentage of base cost per component and investment phasing by
class of accounting category: (a) civil works, materials, equipment, and
vehicles; (b) labor; and (c) staff training, salary, and allowances. Table 3
presents the base cost for investment programmed per year for each of the
eight micro-regions. Tables 4 and 5 show individual investment programs for
two micro-regions for which crop budgets and economic analysis are presented
in detail in Annex 4.
3.          Table 6 shows the estimated schedule of disbursement by the
Bank.



ANNEX 5
MEXICO                                                 Table 1
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT -  PIDER III
TCTAL COSTS AND PHASING OF INVESTMENTS
SUMMARY TABLE: SEVE NTEEN MICR O-REGIONS
(MILLIONS OF MEXICAN PESOS)
YEAR              1981          1982         1983       TOTALS
PRODUCTIVE
AGRICULTURAL DEVEL.                579          641           586          1806
IRRIGATION                      293           311           224          827
SOIL & WATER CONS.                45           71            69          185
LAND IMPROVEMENT                  74           51            61          186
FRUIT CROP DEVEL.                 8o          112           123          315
COFFEE DEVELOPPENT                74           77            88          240
COCONUT DEVELOPMENT               13           18            21           52
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT              431          448           543          1423
BEEF & DAIRY                    309           292           350          951
GOATS                              -            3             6            10
PORK                              23           54            78          154
POULTRY                          20            30            35           86
BEEKEEPING                        14           13            22           50
PASTURE IMPROVEMENT               65           56            52          173
FISHERIES                           45           63            97           206
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT                is           26            t0            54
RURAL INDUSTRIES                    28           90           100           218
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT                 245          279           303           827
SUBTOTAL (PRODUCTIVE)               1347          1548         1639          4534
SUPPORT
EXTENSION (1)                      198           194          222          613
RURAL ROADS                        115          115           116          346
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION               81           101          163           345
RURAL MARKETING                     23            29           45            98
FARMER ORG. & TRAINING              54            64           74           193
FEASIBILITY STUDIES                 35            42           50           126
BASELINE STUDIES                    41           28            28            96
PROD. PROG. FOR WOMEN               20            t9           19            58
SUBTOTAL (SUPPORT)                   567           592          716          1675
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
EDUCATION                           66            74           85           225
RURAL WATER SUPPLY                  52           87            71          211
NEALTF CENTERS                      58            59           45           162
NUTRITION                           3S            38           42           115
SELF-HELP MATERIALS                  7             6           12            24
SUBTOTAL (INFRA.)                    219           264          254           737
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
MONITORING & EVAL.                  15            17           18            50
ORG. & MANAGEMENT                   53            60           65           179
TRAINING & TECH. ASSIS              21            24           26            71
BASE COST (2)                       2222         2505          2719          7446
CONTINGENCIES
PHYSICAL (3)                       154          178           191           523
PRICE                              523          1154         1950          3627
TOTAL COST                          2899          3836         4861         11596
EQUIVALENT IN U.S.$M (4)             126           167          212           506
(1) Extension includes technical assistance and applied research.
(2) All costs in 1980 values.
(3) Physical contingency (1 09) calculated for construction and
civil works only.
(4) Exchange rate: MEX23/U..S$1
DEC. , 198Q



- 83 -                                                   ANNEX S
Tab le 2
MEDICO)
INTEGRATED RERAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER Ill
COST ESTIMATES AND INVESTMENT PHASING
a~t-ssa 1Eq-up.
Base-Line         Service and                Prosacs Tear
Cost            Labac Cant
iS,)              (Li               198D      1982       1983       Toala
I.  D-roetly Prodoctioc                                         61
Ag-r1eul-raE Dcvelteneit                                    2S                                  l57        §1         5B7        1.8.7
I-rig-ci-D 11                                                                                    293       311        224          828
Civil works,   Ert-ialo and oquip-tnr                                        70              205        218        157          580
Labor                                                                         30                88        93         67         248
SIl sod Weter Cooseroarcon                                    3                                   45         71        69          185
CivlD works, iI   twrieln and equipmoen                                       70                31        )O         48          129
Labor                                                                         30                14        21         21          36
Land Inp-ooemst                                               3                                   74         51        61          187
Material and equipmoot                                                        80                59        41         49          150
Labor                                                                         20                15        10         12          37
,rait Crop Development                                       4                                    80       112        123          315
T.terSals ad cqaipeent                                                        75                60        84         92         236
Labor                                                                         25                20        2N         31          79
Coffe  and Cocoout Develop-ont                               4                                    87        96        109          292
Matorials and oquipm-en                                                       75                65        72         82         219
Labor                                                                         25               22         24         27          73
Livastoek l.evolopeoo                                        19                                  432       449        544       1.424
Coostr_t_  tion; produat-on and handling
f-ailities;  maerials and equip-eot                                           80              346        359       435        1,139
Labor                                                                         20               86         90        109         285
F- Ilios Dvlpet   p t..                                      2                                    45        63         98         206
'aterials, bo5ts, oquip. &  training                                          80                51        50         79         165
Lsbor                                                                         20                 9        13         19          41
Foaestry Dovelopooot                                          1                                   18        26         10           55
fiasorioin  and eqoupment                                                     80                14        21          8          4d
Labor                                                                         20                 4         5          2           11
VRowl ISdusteies                                              3                                   28        91        100          218
Coentruwtion of plaont  e.quip. aed
Leaborsao                                                                     580               22        73         80         174
Labor                                                     so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  6  ES        20           44
Devolopmeant Crodit                                         11                             '     245       279        303         827
Materials sod equipn te                                                       85              208        237       257          703
Labor                                                                         15               37         42        4k          124
11.  Productivc Support                                           26                                   567       593        717       1,877
tenokon iowh. ass-itanee and
Appliod Resoareh                                              8                                  198        194       222          314
hvterialo, oqoip. and  _ehieles                                               20               40         39        44          123
Scoff trainin8, salarois and allowan.ee                                       80               158       155        148         491
Rural Noans                                                   5                                  115       IIS        116          346
CiEil works,  -uterials and equip-eot                                         70               80         80        81          242
Labor                                                                         30               35         33         33         104
Rural flecirifieation                                         5                                   81       101        163          345
iMatorals and oquip-ent                                                       80                65        81        130         276
Labor                                                                         20               16         20        33           69
Roral  -arke-ing                                              1                                   23        29         45           98
Coostruction of uaehoussos and sto
pat-rial5 and equipment                                                       80                18        23        36           78
Labor                                                                         20                 5         6          9           20
Parnoro   org0 oioati-n sod  ra-ieg                           3                                   54        64         74          193
Materials, equip. and  -ohieIe-                                              20                5l         13        15           39
Staff, farmor  t-ralsg; & stff
salaries aod I  lloao.s        s                                              80               43         51         59         154
Fe-sobility and Basoline  Ssudicn                             3                                   76        60         78          222
it-srislsoad eqaipneont                                                       15                11       5          66          189
SooviEes                                                                      85                65         9         12          33
Prodsctive Pro8ram  for WSaen                                 1                                   20         19        19           58
Mia.orioln. equip., aod eonsruction
of planto                                                                    s0                 16        15         13          46
Labor                                                                         20                 4         4          4           12
D1I.  Soeial Iufr-stractare                                        10                                   219       264        255          738
Iduwarson                                                    3                                    66        74         85         2 .
Conneruetion of class rpoars;
osereatlo aed equsp-ent                                                       70               46         52         59         157
Labor                                                    ~~        ~       ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~                ~     ~~~~~~~~~~30  50  22  26  68
RVowl W..er Sapply                                            3                                   52        87         71          211
Constructio-, matorials aed eqaip.                                            70                36        61         50         148
L.,-                                                                          30                16        26         21          63
Oo-lrk ConEer                                                 2                                   55         59        45          162
Consesuction, seasons In aod oqoup.                                           70               41         41         31         113
Labor                                                                         30                17        18         14          49
Natrit_on                                                     2                                   35        38         42          115
Eds-asion-l -atsrials, eqoip. snd
_h_ele                                                                        2                  9         9         15          29
Staff benofieiaries trhiniog, and
itaif salaries sod alloaaewo-                                                 75               26         29        32           86
SolE-HeN.-                                                   5                                     7         6         12           24
Plreria1s and aquip-ent                                                       40                 3         3          5           10
Labor                                                                         60                 4         4          7          14
IV.  Poreet M ..o -..ent                                              4                                   89        101       109          346t
MonitoriVg and Evalsation                                     1                                   15         17        18           50
hs--orslo  and oquipment                                                      20                 3         3          4           10
Staff  alarfen and allwan1ee                                                 80                12        14         14          40
0oganoastien and Ma.agenont                                   2                                   53        60         65          178
M,terialo, equip. and v-hicles                                                20                11        12         13          36
Se If salanoes and allowancen                                                 80               42         48        32          142
Tweoinig and Towb- ieal Assistance                            1                                   21         24        26           72
Mot-rials and equip-ent                                                       20                 4         5          5          14
Sorvi-en sod aIloawanco                                                       80                17        19         21          58
V.  Total Basn-Lioo  Cose                                           100                                2,224    2.507       2,722       7,453
.VI   Cootinoge-ie-
A. PIysiwal (10X)calculated for
eonst,  oEan and wioil works only                                                           154        178       192          524
B.  Pei-e                                                                                        523     1.155     1.952        3.630
T-eal Coat /                                                                                  2,901      2^84      4.865       11.606
,'d o n-y  -ot odd op duo so roundsng.



-84 -                                   ANNEX 5
Table 3
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
Investment Programmed - By Eight Micro-Regions
(Mex$ millions)
Project Years
State / Micro-Region                         1981       1982        1983          Total /b
Sinaloa:
1.  Mocorito-Badiraguato-Culiacan            195.8      222.9       249.5         668.2
2.  Norte                                    172.7      213.8       226.3         612.8
Zacatecas:
3.  Valparaiso                               120.8      143.9       156.3         421.0
4.  Tlaltenango                               71.3       109.7      137.1         318.1
Yucatan:
5.  Litoral Norte                            107.6       119.3      141.1         368.0
6.  Sur                                      187.9      136.9        94.0         418.8
Guerrero:
7- Atoyac                                    112.3       127.5      155.7         395.5
8.  Costa Chica                              112.6       140.7      173.9         427.2
Total Base Cost -             1.081.0    1,214.7    1,333.9        3,629.6
US equivalent (millions)         47.0        52.8        58.0         157.8
(Base Cost)
/a Excluding: Feasibility and Baseline Studies, Productive Projects for Women, and
Project Management (since these are administered from the federal
level). Allocations will be made by federal management to micro-
regions.
/b Totals do not extrapolate directly to seventeen micro-regions, due to reductions
planned for some components in the remaining nine micro-regions.



-85 -                                  ANNEX 5
MEXICO                                 Table 4
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRCJECT -  PIDER III
-------------------------------------------------
TOTAL COSTS AND PHASING OF INVESTMENTS
--------------------------------------
MICROREGION: MOCORITO (SINALOA)
_______________________________
(THOUSANDS OF MEXICAN PESOS)
YEAR            1981         1982        1983      TOTALS
PRODUCTIVE
AGRICULTURAL DEVEL.          41743        42667       37705       122115
IRRIGATION                  11000       16820       11150        38970
SOIL & WATER CONS.          4092         8448        9108        21648
LAND IMPROVEMENT            19565       14535       14382        48482
FRUIT CROP DEVEL.           7086         2864        3065        13015
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT         55782       72989       90259       219030
BEEF & DAIRY               49700        52600       67600       169900
PORK                           -        15000       15000        30000
POULTRY                        -         3600        3600        7200
BEEKEEPING                   500          750        3000        4250
PASTURE IMPROVEMENT         5582         1039        1059        7680
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT              -        1900        4000         5900
RURAL INDUSTRIES                  -        2800           -         2800
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT           28093        36466       41418       105977
SUBTOTAL (PRODUCTIVE)          125618      156822      173382       455822
SUPPORT
EXTENSION (1)                 13180       14766       17262        45208
FEEDER ROADS                 27233        16596       10200        54029
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION         12650       16180       23540        52370
RURAL MARKETING               3000            -        3000         6000
FARMER ORG. & TRAINING         3670        4400        5280        13350
SUBTOTAL (SUPPORT)              59733       51942       59282       170957
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
EDUCATION                     3120         4320        6480        13920
RURAL WATER SUPPLY             2950        5299        7650        15899
HEALTH CENTERS                 3680        3680           -         7360
NUTRITION                      758          872        1002         2632
SELF-HELP MATERIALS               -           -        1740         1740
SUBTOTAL (INFRA.)               10508       14171       16872        41551
BASE COST                      195859      222935      249536       668330
CONTINGENCIES
PHYSICAL (2)                  15092       16730       18558        50380
PRICE                        21095        23967       26809        71871
TOTAL COST                     232046      263632      294903       790580
(1) EXTENSION INCLUDES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND APPLIED RESEARCH.
(2) PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY (10%) CALCULATED FOR CONSTRUCTTION AND
CIVIL WORKS ONLY.
DEC. 4, 1980



- 86 -                                   ANNEX 5
MEXICO                                  Table 5
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT -  PIDER III
-------------------------------------------------
TOTAL COSTS AND PHASING OF INVESTMENTS
MICROREGION: SUR DE YUCATAN
___________________________
(THOUSANDS OF MEXICAN PESOS)
____________________________
------------------------------------------------__----------------------
YEAR            1981         1982         1983      TOTALS
-----------------------------------------------------------------__-----
PRODUCTIVE
AGRICULTURAL DEVEL.           62200        49300        15700      127200
IRRIGATION                  50800        44500        1170 0     107C 00
LAND IMPROVEMENT             1900            -            -        1900
FRUIT CROP DEVEL.            9500         4800        14000       18300
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT         33600        16500        10100       60200
BEEF & DAIRY                33400        16500       10100        60000
BEEKEEPING                    200            -            -         200
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT            29070        18824         8352       56246
SUBTOTAL (PRODUCTIVE)          124870        846214       34152      243646
SUPPORT
EXTENSION (1)                 12800        12200        13200       38200
FEEDER ROADS                   9200         1000         1000       11200
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION         13300        12400        16900       42600
RURAL MARKETING                2000         2000            -        4000
FARMER ORG. & TRAINING         3900         4700        5600        14200
SUBTOTAL (SUPPORT)              41200        32300        36700      110200
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
EDUCATION                      3700         5000       ,6000        14700
RURAL WATER SUPPLY             8500         7800        10400       26700
HEALTH CENTERS                 3700         1600            -        5300
NUTRITION                      2800         3000         3000        8800
SELF-HELP MATERIALS            3200         2600         3800        9600
SUBTOTAL (INFRA.)               21900        20000        23200       65100
BASE COST                      187970       136924        94052      418946
CONTINGENCIES
PHYSICAL (2)                  14220        10120         6690       31030
PRICE                         20219        14704        10074       44998
TOTAL COST                     222409       161748       110816      494974
(1) EXTENSION INCLUDES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND APPLIED RESEARCH.
(2) PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY (10%) CALCULATED FOR CONSTRUCTION AND
CIVIL WORKS ONLY.
DEC. 4, 1980



- 87 -                            ANNEX 5
Table 6
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million equivalent)
Cumulative
Disbursements
Fiscal Year                                                   at end of
and Quarter                    Amount Disbursed                Quarter
1982
September 30, 1981                       8.0                          8.0
December 31, 1981                       14.0                         22.0
March 31, 1982                          14.0                         36.0
June 30, 1982                           14.0                         50.0
1983
September 30, 1982                      11.0                         61.0
December 31, 1982                       16.0                         77.0
March 31, 1983                          19.0                         96.0
June 30, 1983                           17.0                        113.0
1984
September 30, 1983                      14.0                        127.0
December 31, 1983                       22.0                        149.0
March 31, 1984                          11.0                        160.0
June 30, 1984                            9.0                        169.0
1985
September 30, 1984                       6.0                        175.0



MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRWJECT -- PIDER III
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS -- CROPS
__________________________
WITH PIDER
Incremental Volume of Production (MT) /a
-------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------------------------------____--------------------------------------------------------------------------___
YEAR               1981          1982          1983          1984           1985          1986          1987          1988           1989          1990          1991
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__------------------------------------------------------------------__--------_
MAIZE                               -4774 /b       15461         26868         44768         61234          81396         94074         94794         93168         93168          93168
BEANS                                -506           4245          7262         11868         15528          17943         20153         20309         20364         20364          16883
GROUNDNUTS                             313          3770          7185          8196          9028           9860          9860          9860          9860           9860          94770
SESAME                                 -19           434           681          1423          1423           2166          2166          2166          2166          2166           1155
SAFFLOWER                                -          1264          2336          2466          2596           2726          2855          2855          2855           2855          2855
VEGETABLES                               -          9213         14606         167413        18347          19472         20864         20864         20864         20864          20864
PLUM                                     -             -            16           178           254            406           537           698           935           1071          1071
NOPAL                                    -             -          2132          24614         5260           8577         11183         12000         12000          12000         12000
AVOCADO                                  -             -             -           702          2106           3102         41570          6230          6945           7149          7149
MANGO                                    -             -                        2285          8209          1641014       21798         23011         24734         26917          28615
CITRUS                                   -             -              -             -         3266          13938         34640         58564         97785        107985         115581     '
PEACH                                    -             -           457          1151          1974           2585          3519          4772          5402           5638          5638      1
CASHEW                                   -             -             -              -           915          1638          2681          4128          6426           9298         12936
COCOA                                    -             -             -            22             80           128           185           249           271            271           271
COFFEE                               -264           -346           386          2406          5031           7521          9894         11664         13731          16083         14836
COPRA                                    -            19            77            115           191           268           306           287           306            306           306
/a  For seventeen micro-regions.  The total volume of production for eight micro-regions was multiplied by 17/8,
and therefore assumes the same output mix in the remaining nine micro-regions.
/b  Negative values for initial project years are due to shifts in cropping patterns, and in some cases, interruption
of production for on-farm investments (particularly irrigation).
ax



MEXI C0
ItlTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PIDSR III
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS -LIVESTOCK
-----------_----------------------------
INCIIRENTAL L1VESTOCK PRODUCTION
_ _     _ _    _ -_                               -           - - -      - ___ __ __ __ __ __  ___ __ __  -__ _ _ _ _ _                    --- -- -______ -  ___   -___------_                         _   __          _
TEAR             1981          1982         1983         1984         1985         1986         198T         1988         1989         1990          1991      1992         1993          1994         1995
IHEIFEPS (300 rG/HD)                  -          343          470          818         1061         1B06         2075         2533          2854         3107         3511       3715         3929         3991         3981
STEERS (280 lG/HD)                    -            -          324         1555         3970         5704         6581         7641         7326          7426         7927       8126         8244         8312         8164
CULL COWDS (350 KG/HD)                -          126          598         136D         2501         3746         4601         4675          4672         4939         5017       5051         5051         5051         5C51
CULL BULL (350 KG/ND)                 -            -            -            8           78          149          403           510          454          284          300        302          302          318          318
YFARI!CG CALVES                       -          343          779          967         1149         1144         1144          1144         1144         1144         1144       1194         1144         1144         1194
WEANED CALVES                         -        990°0       195228       268488       260172       252648       24512,       155628         68112            -                       -            -            -            -
CATTLE-FAT.A 400 NG/ED)               -         9116         6672         8090         6424         4712         3092         2098          1666            -            -          -            -            _
MILK (LT)                             -     3843000       6069000    11225000    12903000    15395000    15837000    15924000    15952000    16113000    16152000  16152000    16152000    16152000    161520C0
rIGS (90 KG/31D)                      -         2226        11660        24340        30148        30324        30324        30324        30324        3032         30324      30324        30324         30324        30324
CULL SGVS                             -           60          180          340          444          412          412           412          412          412          912        412          412          412          )l2
CULL BOARS                            -            2            a           18           20           20           20            20           20           20           20         20           20           20           20
CHICKENS (2 KG/BIRD)                  -       272000       56T000       9488000      958000       958000       958000       g5o0 0o9580o00            9580o         958000    958000 958000             958000        958002
HONEY (KG)                            -       133800       335000       688400       899700       902700       902700       902700       902700       902700       902700    902700        902700       902700        902700    1
wAX (Xs)                              -         2852         7072        13130        18674        18774        18774         18774 1674                18774        18774      18774        18774        18774        1e774
H7YE UNITS                            -            -            -          324         4581         4675         4675         4675          t675        9675          4675      4675         9675          4675         4675   Co
KIDS                                  -                      1125         3031         3866         4594         4931         9931         9931          4931         4931      9931          4931         4931         4931
CULL GOATS                            -            -          300          822          801          938          938          938           938          938          938       938           938          938          938
tJ 
m   J



MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
Farm Income With and Without the Project bv Micro-Region (Crops Only)/a
(000 Mex$)
Guerrero                  Yucatan                     Zacatecas                  Sinaloa
Costa Chica   Atoyac   Litoral Norte        Sur      Valparaiso   Tlaltenango   Norte   Mocorito
Rainfed
Without Project                     9,051       37,861             -           910        3,474         2,475       8,995      6,502
With Project                       54,819      184,172             -         41          45,925        32,711      68,430    56,174
Incremental                        45,768      146,311            -         3,606       42,451         30,236      59,434    49,672
Per Capita/b Without Project        2,055        1,234             _           267          251           226         234        180
Per Capita With Project            12,448        6,004-                      1,324        3,323         2,991       1,777      1,558
Incremental Per Capita Income   10,392           4,770            -         1,057         3,072         2,765       1,543      1,378
Irrigated
Without Project                    17,859        3,157       14,351         21,717        1,914           282       1,651      1,181  C
With Project                       71,295       23,973       37,254        56,378        49,594         7,296      24,134    19,519
Incremental                        53,436       20,816       22,903        34,661       47,680          7,015      22,483    18,338
Per Capita Without Project          2,159          898        3,075          9,567          314           283         234        180
Per Capita With Project             8,618        6,825        7,983         24,836        8,144         _i23        3,414      2,980
Incremental Per Capita Income    6,459           5,927        4,908        15,269         7,830         7,046       3,180      2,800
Total Income
Without Project                    26,910       41,018       14,351         22,627        5,388         2,757      10,647      7,683
With Project                      126,114      208,145       37,254         60,894       95,519        40,007      92,564    75,693
Incremental                        99,204      167,127       22,903        38,267       90,131         37,250      81,917    68,010
Eight Micro-Regions                       Total Income             Per Capita Income             Family Income /c
Without Project                             131,381                       741                        4,151
With Project                                736,190                     4,15423260
Incremental                                 604,809                     3,413.                     19,109
31,651 farms
/a  It is assumed that crops represent about 40% of total farm income.
/b  Per capita figures based on average of 5.6 persons per farm family unit.
/c  Family income figures based on estimate of 31,651  farm families.
D X'



MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
Farm Labor Generated by the Project at Full Development by Micro-Region
(Thnii.qstrds of Workdavs)
Guerrero                        Yucatan                         Zacatecas                         Sinaloa
Costa Chica       Atoyac       Litoral Norte         Sur        Valparaiso      Tlaltenan o         Norte         Mocorito
Hired  Family  Hired  Family  Hired  Family  Hired  Family  Hired  Family  Hire    amiy  Hired  Family  Hired  Family
Labor  Labor   Labor  Labor   Labor  Labor   Labor  Labor   Labor  Labor   Labor  Labor   Labor  Labor   Labor  Labor
Rainfed
Without Projecta/           90    26       520   192                        51      43    234       89     167      64     367    160       334    135
With Project               173    52    2,506   245                         55      26    257    250       183    178      376    408       343    389
Incremental                 83    26    1,986    53                          4    (-17)    23    161        16    114        9    248         9    254
Irrigated
Without Project            169    49        60    22       53      78       81     118    106       38      16       6      67      29       61     25
With Project               135    88        46    32      127      81      192     123    194      98       29      14      72      64       65    100
Incremental               (-34)   39      (-14)   10       74       3     111        5      88     60       13       8       5      35        4     75
Total Labor
Without Project            259    75       580   214       53      78      132     161    340    127       183      70     434    189       395    160
With Project               308   140    2,552   277       127      81      247     149    351    348       212    192      448    472       408    489
Incremental                 49    65    1,972    63        74       3     115    (-12)   111    221         29    122       14    283        13    329 1
Hired Labor Income               (8 Mex$100/day)                 ($ Mex$80/day)                    (@ Mex$100/day)                 (@ Mex$95/day)
(millions of Mex$)
Totals for 8 Micro-Regions            Hired Labor - 2,377    Family Labor - 1,074   Total - 3,451 (@ Mex$99/day (average))
Incremental - 234.2
Incremental                   4.9           197.2             5.9              9.2            11.1             2.9             1.3             1.2
a/ "Without Project" figures are for base year (1981).
rD X



- 92 -
ANNEX 6
Table 5
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER III
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
A. Summary Economic Characteristics
Net Present             Internal Rate
Discount Rate               Value                   of Return
12%                3,070,800,000                  27%
B.   Switching Value Percentage Exchanges for Major Benefits and Cost Streams
Percentage Change
Incremental Benefits                         - 32
Total Investments                             113
Operating Costs                                67.6
C. Sensitivity Analysis
Assumption                      Economic Rate of Return
Best Estimate                                27%
Production Lagged 1 Year                     17%
Production Lagged 2 Years                    13%
Production Lagged 3 Years                     9%
Benefits Reduced 20%                         18%
Investment Costs Increases 20%               24%
Total Costs Increased 20%                    20%



P 199
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT -- PIDER III
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PRICES
(MEXICAN PESOS PER MT)
YEAR            1981         1982        1983         1984        1985         1986   1987-1990   1991-1995
-_ ----------------------- ---------------_ ------__ -_ -__ -------------__ -------__ ------------------------------------_  ___
MAIZE                            4500        4668         4668        4668         4814        4814         4814        4814
BEANS                            9000        9000         9000        9000         9000        9000         9000        9000
GROUNDNUTS                      11300       14690        13852       13852        13852       18866        18866       27290
SESAME                          12000       12000        12000       12000        12000       12000        12000       12000
SAFFLOWER                        7000        7000         7000        7000        7000         7000        7000         7000
VEGETABLES                       3000        3000         3000        3000         3000        3000         3000        3000
PLUM                             4500        4500         4500        4500         4500        4500         4500        4500
NOPAL                            4000        4000         4000        4000         4000        4000         4000        4000
AVOCADO                          6000        6000         6000        6000         6000        6000         6000        6000
MANGO                            6000        6000         6000        6000         6000        6000         6000        6000
CITRUS                           3500        3500         3500        3500         3500        3500         3500        3500
PEACH                            4500        4500         4500        4500        4500         4500        4500         4500
CASHEW                          11300       11300        11300       11300        11300       11300        11300       11300
COCOA                           73814       76344        80254       80254        80254       81180        81180       73354
COFFEE                          76340       63000        57940       57940        57940       62770        62770       69440
COPRA                           11486       13034        13593       13593        13593       19060        19060       23737
CULL BULLS (PER HEAD)           13385       14166        14322       14737        14737       14737        14789       14789
CULL COWS (PER HEAD)             9638       10200        10312       1p611        10611       10611        10648       10648
HEIFERS (PER HEAD)               9631       10199        10293       10606        10606       10606        10670       10670
STEERS (PER HEAD)               13698       14506        14639       15085        15085       15085        15174       15174
MILK (PER LT)                       7           7            7           7            7           7            7           7
CULL COWS (DAIRY)               10708       11333        11458       11800        11800       11800        11831       11831






UNfITO      I BRD-15264
UN]                      T E  $~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N:E?Slts 7"
!707\~~~~~~~~7~~~ N. K      ~:~U                        N~        T    E    D                     $    T   A    T                                                                                       - EArO              COBR   S
_1                                                                                                                                                                          JAMAICA
30.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GUTMLA L ~->    IAAU
NICA>&AGUA
/    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                                                       CANAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L AVD
0                                                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PANAMA
t~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~~~~~~~~~~~900                                              Th,t trp h,t hb-r prApayd by the
the&          -W-r,lca  teecdr tof
CHIHUAHUA                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The d--rti-atort -rd a,dtlha
do --trsply - o he p-rt f the
LOCATIONS OF MICRO-REGIONS                              WaddBr-rt-trh.toftrheep,rt
2  >7                                    COAHUILA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~E ~~NORTE
a  rU  f  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~(                                                           U- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MOCORITO                                  T/f
a  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~73 COSALA-ELOTA
SUR                                                      St
0  E c CI                                                                                                                   KU E V                                            ZACATECAh
G ,                                                                                          L E --N LEON                                  RIO GRANDE                                        C.  *C(
q ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    -                                          =6    FRESNI LLO-CALERA
N  -p                                                                                                      7     P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALPARAISO
'p 1\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r1I~PINOS
E    C ~  LALTENANGO
COTTA GRFANDE
TMAULIPASYA
3  COSTA CHICA
I s                 lo,~~~~~ha        I     OMETEPEC
N  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~         oro~~~~)  ,s I                                     CUAUHTEMOC
NAYAR                                                            ~~~~~~~~~LITORAL NORTE 
200                                                                       OCANAJIJATO,                      rr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   .     ~~~~ MICRO REGIONS FINANCED UNDERCOML
J A   L  I  S                            0~~~~HIDLG                                                                                        Is  20'0
r  r                                                                            ,   I O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UrTANA ROCI
L.            )    C~~~~l~1jFD  rkXs3 rI                                                                        r
OOLIM~~  ~    MICHOACAN                                                                                      c  UULr
rGMhRtThhr  -  t.~~j                             K   CAMPE CHE
-ITOIsohyets in Millimeters (Mean Annual Precipiltion                                          o     r'                     < j        >IrT                                     I-
Stale ~~~~~~~~~aondorien   -~~~~~~~~~~~~R R EP O.             ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~                             BELIZE
-----International Boundaries                                                                                                                                       2 ho5~ox~  - UU
MEXICO                                                                                  C         HII 
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-PIDER MI   A--~                                                                                                                    
HONDURAS
D      1~0     2.0    300      400      SOD
KILOMETERS
1100                                                      100~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lo                                                       900o.E
o'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 14SAILVADOR.0.0



