Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15941
TIMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
(Credit 1990-MAI)
August 6, 1996
Energy and Infrastructure Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The unit of Currency is the Malawi Kwacha(MK)
MK 1.00 = 100 tambalas
US$ 1.00        =     MK 2.53 at appraisal
MK 1.00         =     US $0.39 at appraisal
US$ 1.00        =     MK  15 current
MK 1.00         =     US$ 0.067 current
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I gigawatt hour (GWh         =     I million kilowatt hours
I kilovolt (kV)              =     1,000 volts
I kilowatt (kW               =     1,000 watts
I kilowatt hour (kWh)        =     1,000 watt hours
kVA, MVA                     =     kilovolt ampere, Megavolt ampere
I Megawatt (MW)              =     1,000 kilowatts
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDC           -       Commonwealth Development Corporation
EIB           -       European Investment Bank
ESCOM         -      Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi
ESMAP         -      Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
FD            -       Forestry Department
GDP           -       Gross Domestic Product
KfW           -       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MAI           -       Mean Annual Increment
M & E         -       Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR           -       Mid Term Review
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................................                                                                                                                       i
THE PROJECT AND ITS OBJECTIVES ............................................................                                                                                                           i
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND SUMMARY OF FINDINGS ............................................................ i
LESSONS  LEARNED  AND  FUTURE  OPERATICNS  . ...........................................................i.........................................  ni
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ....................                                                                                   ........................................ I
A. Introduction ............................................................ I
B. Project Objectives and Description ............................................................                                                                                   2
C. Achievements of Project Objectives ............................................................                                                                                   3
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting The Project ............................................................ 5
E. Project Sustainability ............................................................                                                                                              14
F. Bank Performance ............................................................                                                                                                    15
G. Borrower Performance ............................................................                                                                                                16
H. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................                                                                                              16
1. Future Operations ............................................................                                                                                                   17
J. Key Lessons Learned ............................................................                                                                                                  18
PART 11: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ....................................................                                                                                               21
Table 2: Related Bank Loans ....................................................                                                                                                   23
Table 3: Project Time Table ....................................................                                                                                                   24
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimates and Actuals ....................................................                                                                   24
Table 5A: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Power) ....................................................                                                                   25
Table SB: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Wood Energy) ....................................................   28
Table 7: Studies included in the Project ....................................................                                                                                      29
Table 8A: Project Costs ....................................................                                                                                                        30
Table 8B: Project Financing Plan, in million US dollars ....................................................                                                                       31
N.B. The local cost does not include interest during implementation ....................................................                                                             31
Table 9: Economic Costs And Benefits .............2.................                                                                                                                32
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .............................                                                                                                                   40
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .............................                                                                                                               43
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .............................                                                                                                                   44
APPENDICES
A. ICR Mission's Aide Memoire
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C. Map
This document has restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. It contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
(Credit 1990-MAI)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Energy I Project in Malawi,
for which Credit 1990-MAI in the amount of SDR 34.8 million (US$ 46.7 million equivalent)
was approved on March 14, 1989 and made effective on February 6, 1990. The Credit was
closed on February 28, 1996, fourteen months after the original closing date of December 31,
1994 and after one extension. Final disbursement from the Credit was made on March 18, 1996.
The Republic of Austria provided Austrian Shillings 277 million (US$ 26.4 million
equivalent) in cofinancing for the purchase of turbines and generators for the Tedzani III power
plant, a major project component. The Preferential Trade Area (PTA) Bank provided 6 million
PTA units of account (US$ 8.4 million equivalent) to help finance the substations and the short
transmission link.
The draft of the ICR was prepared jointly by the co-Task Managers of the Energy I
Project (Assefa Telahun of the Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division for the Power
component and Paul Ryan of the Agriculture and Environment Operations Division for the
Wood Energy component). Coordination of the inputs to the ICR was done by the Energy and
Infrastructure Operations Division of Southern Africa Department. It was reviewed by Jeffrey S.
Racki, Division Chief, and Jacomina de Regt, Acting Operations Advisor of the same
Department. The Borrower provided comments that are included in the Appendix.
Preparation of the ICR began during the Bank's ICR mission in February 1996
(Appendix A). It is based on the mission's findings and on information in the project files.






MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
(Credit 1900-MAI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
THE PROJECT AND ITS OBJECTIVES
1.    The Energy I Project had two main components. (a) a Power Component, with its own
subcomponents, and the Bank's fourth power project which the Bank helped finance in Malawi;
and (b) a Wood Energy Component, also with a number of subcomponents, being the third
wood energy project financed by the Bank, which replaced the IBRD funded second Wood
Energy loan of US$ 16.7 million (Ln. 2670-MAI), which was canceled after disbursement of
only US$ 777,057 (para. 50).
2.    The specific objectives of the Energy I project were: (i) assisting Government and
ESCOM implement the priority components of the least cost power development program; (ii)
helping Government and the Forestry Department implement their comprehensive strategy for
the management of wood energy on a cost effective and environmentally sustainable basis; (iii)
ensuring that energy pricing policy signaled the economic cost of supply; and (iv) strengthening
energy planning capability and enhancing the management information system of ESCOM.
3.    To achieve these objectives, the Energy I project consisted of: a Power Component
comprising: (i) 50MW of additional hydroelectric capacity through the construction of the
Tedzani III power plant; (ii) rehabilitation of existing power plants; (iii) reinforcement of
distribution and transmission facilities; and (iii) strengthening the power sector through studies
and provision of computer hardware and software; a Charcoal Component comprising
consultancy services to advise on and support activities related to the production and marketing
of softwood charcoal from forest thinnings; and a Wood Energy Component consisting of:
(i) institutional development through establishment of improved management and protection of
indigenous woodlands; (ii) sustainability of wood production through promotion of tree growing
by smallholder farmers coupled with Government plantations; and (iii) wood conservation
through policy initiatives and assistance in charcoal production and marketing.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND SUMMARY OF FINDINGS
4.    Tedzani III was substantially completed in December 1995, a delay of 18 months from
the original completion date of June 30, 1994, mainly because of delayed effectiveness of the



- ii -
IDA credit and procurement delays due in part to Government bureaucracy at the initial stages of
implementation and problems encountered during bid evaluation. These delays, together with
delays encountered during construction, coupled with a more robust design of the turbines and
powerhouse structure contributed to a 26.9% cost increase over the original cost estimate in US
dollar terms for the Power Component. The other Power subcomponents were completed within
cost estimates and most of them ahead of schedule. The Wood Energy Component was also
completed in time and without incurring additional costs. The overall cost increase of the Energy
I project was 19.2% in US dollar terms (Table 8A). Actual increases in currency of payments are
discussed in paragraph 18. The Republic of Austria and the PTA Bank assisted the Government
and ESCOM in financing the additional cost increases; ESCOM was, however, still looking for
sources of financing outstanding invoices totaling about US$ 6 million during the ICR mission.
5.    The Power Component faced major claims by the Civil Works contractor and by the
Electrical Contractor. The Civil Works claim, estimated at 41 % for foreign and 51.4% for local
costs over the original contract amount, has been amicably settled, well within the presumptive
contract sum ( which includes contingencies). The Electrical Works Contractor claim of over
170%, although rejected on legal grounds, is under discussion with a view to arriving at an
amicable settlement. ESCOM appears confident that the revised cost to completion will not be
exceeded in spite of the claims by contractors. Despite delays and cost increases the Power
Component's main objective of providing the additional capacity of 50MW has been achieved.
6.    Project management of the Power Component was satisfactory, including project
accounting and progress reporting. Project coordination of the Wood Energy Component was
weak until the Component's Mid Term Review, following which a dedicated Project
Coordinator and a Financial Controller were assigned to the advantage of the Component.
Bank's supervision of the two discrete components of the Project was regular at about two per
year. Why the Charcoal component was not included as an integral part of the Wood Energy
Component at project design is not clear. Its ownership, though specific in the legal documents,
did not receive the required commitment by the Forestry Department during supervision. The
major objective of privatizing the production and marketing was not achieved, and follow up
operation is recommended (paras. 59, 60).
7.    The lessons learnt from the Wood Energy I project (Credit 992-MAI) helped reorientate
Wood Energy II (Loan 2670-MAI) away from direct wood production for fuel and poles by the
Forestry Department towards the creation of an institutional and policy environment that
encourages private sector production, wood conservation and its efficient utilization, thereby
alleviating the gap between sustainable woodfuel supply and increasing demand. Due to
Malawi's deteriorating external debt in the 1980s, the Borrower and the Bank agreed to cancel
the IBRD loan and transfer the main activities to the Energy I Project, however, with no change
in the stated objectives of Wood Energy II. The overall achievement of the Wood Energy
Component of Energy I is considered satisfactory.
8.    The Energy Pricing Study has achieved its objective in signaling energy pricing policy
issues. The study has contributed to the removal of paraffin subsidies and the stabilization fund



- iii -
for petroleum products. The study document is expected to be used as reference for principles
and methodologies in setting energy pricing policies (paras. 15, 57).
9.    Following the indications of Tables 5A and 5B and the component by component
evaluation of this ICR, the overall Assessment of Outcome of the Energy I project is rated
satisfactory. The economic rate of return of the Power Component is 5%, well below the SAR's
estimate of 11%. This is mainly due to lower incremental energy benefits and low tariff levels
(para. 22). That of the Wood Energy Component is the same as the SAR estimate of 14% for
Government plantations and slightly higher at 21.5% than the SAR's estimate of 19.5% for
smallholders (Tables 9B- 9D). ESCOM's financial situation has been deteriorating particularly
following the devaluation of the Kwacha in early 1994, making ESCOM non-compliant in its
financial covenants of 30% internal cash generation for investment. Table 5A shows the ratio to
be 17%, 2% and negative in fiscal years 1993/94, 1994/95 and 1995/96 respectively. Borrower's
performance in the power sector is hence rated deficient (Table 1).
10.   The Credit of SDR 34.8 million (US$ 46.7 million equivalent, of which US$ 31.9 million
was on-lent to ESCOM and US$ 14.8 million was earmarked for the Government's Wood
Energy Component and Energy Pricing Study), was approved by the Board on March 14, 1989,
and made effective on February 6, 1990. The original closing date of December 31, 1994 was
extended to February 28, 1996, after one extension. The final disbursement was made on March
18, 1996.
LESSONS LEARNED AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
11.   The lessons to be drawn from the implementation of the Power Component are the
following: (i) due to erosion of ESCOM's autonomy (para. 61), its financial performance has
lately been adversely affected, although there was no change either in ESCOM's ownership or in
its legal status. Government's role should move from approving individual tariff proposals to
providing tariff policy guidelines and empowering ESCOM's Board to set tariffs within
prescribed guidelines; (ii) different scenarios for exchange rates and for inflation should be
examined at the project preparation phase, with indicative indexation formula for average tariff
rates; (iii) the need for a mid term review to restructure, if need be, the financial covenants
(para.28) and to assess additional financing requirements, if any, including sources of financing
(paras. 18-20); (iv) to ensure sustainability, future operations should stress the need to accelerate
the commercialization and corporatization of ESCOM and the role the private sector could play
in the power sector (paras. 45, 58).
12.   The Charcoal Component has brought forth the lesson that utilizing surplus softwood in
Government plantations could be an effective strategy for least cost woodfuel supply. However,
the ambitious objective of commercializing its production and marketing has underestimated the
impracticality of confiscating hardwood charcoal, the high transport cost from the Viphya forest
and the lack of an extensive market network, particularly for the domestic sector. Encouraging
participation of the private sector for the production and marketing of softwood charcoal from
Mulanje plantations, where transport cost is less of a constraint, should pave the way for the
commercialization of similar operations elsewhere in Malawi.



- iv -
13.   The following main lessons (paras. 56, 63) emerge from the experience on the Wood
Energy Component: (a) the establishment of market linkages is a critical incentive for growing
wood by the private sector; (b) greater effort should be made to involve local communities in the
protection and management of woodlands, together with collection and sharing of revenues; (c)
the need for the legislative framework to legitimize the establishment of forest areas, including
the management and protection by communities.
14.    Strengthening the planning, monitoring and evaluation capabilities of the Forestry
Department, encouraging commercialization and privatisation of softwood charcoal operations,
and supporting extension services to disseminate knowhow and best practices, are essential to put
into effect the lessons learnt from the Wood Energy component' (paras.47 50, 53, 60, 62).
Borrower's input to the ICR states that "...the report falls short of making recommendations for follow-up actions
by the Bank, other funding agencies and the Government of Malawi..."and adds .. "It has been pointed out to
both the latest Bank Supervision and ICR draft missions that the view of the Forestry Department is that the
Environmental Support Programme (ESP) is not successor to either the Wood Energy or Charcoal Production
Components." (Page 46).



PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
(Credit 1990-MAI)
Project Identity
Project Name:                        Energy I Project
Credit Number:                       1990-MAI
Credit Amount:                       SDR 34.8 million
RVP Unit:                            Southern Africa Department
Country:                             Malawi
Sector                               Energy
A.   Introduction
1.    The first IDA Credit (178-MAI, Table 2) for US$ 6.09 million was made in 1970 to help
finance the foreign exchange cost of the Tedzani I hydroelectric power plant. The second stage of
Tedzani and a 15MW standby gas turbine plant were financed with a second IDA Credit (426-
MAI) of US$7.5 million made in 1973 and a loan of US$ 6 million from the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC). A total amount of US$ 25 million was provided in three lots,
of which two were loans and one a credit, all approved on March, 29, 1977, to finance the civil
works component of the 80MW Nkula B hydroelectric power plant. CDC, the European
Development Fund, the African Development Bank and KfW provided a total of US$ 82 million
towards the cost of Nkula B. KfW provided additional funding for the installation of the fifth 20
MW unit at Nkula B commissioned late in 1993.
2.    Assistance to periurban woodfuel plantation was provided in 1980 by the first forestry
sub-sector credit (Cr 992-MAI) of US$ 13.8 million. A second loan of US$ 16.7 million was
made in 1986 to reorient the Government away from wood production and towards the
encouragement of private smallholder wood production, conservation and efficient utilization of
biomass resources. Energy I Project approved in 1989 was the fourth project in regard to its
Power component, accounting for 68% of the Energy I Credit of SDR34.8 million (US$46.7
million equivalent), and the third in regard to its Wood Energy component, accounting for the
remaining 32% and replacing Wood Energy II loan, which the World Bank helped implement in
Malawi. The Republic of Austria, with US$26.4 million equivalent, and Preferential Trade Area
(PTA) Bank, with US$8.4 million equivalent, assisted in financing the Power component of the
Energy I project.



- 2 -
3.   In addition to Energy I, for which this ICR is prepared, the Bank together with CDC, EIB
and KfW is assisting in the implementation of the ongoing Power V project for which a credit of
US$ 55 million equivalent was approved in June 1992, and declared effective in December 1993
after a long delay due to temporary withdrawal of donors' support on grounds of alleged
violations of human rights.
B.   Project Objectives and Description
4.    The overall objective of the Energy I Project was to assist the Govermment to formulate
and implement an integrated program to make the most economic use of Malawi's domestic and
imported energy resources. The specific objectives of the Project were to: (i) assist the
Government and ESCOM implement the priority components of the least cost power
development plan adopted by the Government; (ii) assist the Government and the Forestry
Department to implement their comprehensive strategy for the management of wood energy on a
cost-effective and environmentally sustainable basis; (iii) ensure that energy pricing policy
signals economic cost of supply; and (iv) strengthen energy planning capability and enhance the
management information system of ESCOM. Consistent with the objective of 4(ii) above,
substitution by softwood charcoal for woodfuels derived from customary land and consumed by
flue-cured tobacco growers and urban households as well for imported and domestic coal for
industries was set as a specific strategy for the Charcoal Production and Marketing Component.
5.    The Project consisted of the following main components: the Power Component, the
Charcoal Component and the Wood Energy Component.
6.    The Power Component omprised the following parts:
*  Part - A: Tedzani III Hydroelectric Scheme: (i) Construction of an additional
intake structure from Tedzani I and II dam; a 1052m headrace tunnel and surge
chamber, a reinforced concrete box structured power house, a tailrace outlet system;
installation of two Francis turbines coupled to two 25MW generators, and associated
electromechanical equipment and switchyard; about 6km of 132kV transmission link
to Nkula B; and additional SCADA and PLC systems; (ii) a 132/66kV substation at
Blantyre West; and (iii) Engineering Services for the design and supervision of the
power scheme.
*  Part - B: Generation Rehabilitation: (a) Increasing the reliability of Tedzani I and
II power plants through (i) the systematic replacement of direct cooling by closed
circuit water cooling, (ii) changing turbine governor parts to improve stability of
Tedzani I by electronic automatic voltage regulators; and (b) Acquisition of spares for
the existing hydro, gas and diesel power plants.
*  Part. - C: Institutional Strengthening of ESCOM: (i) Provision of computers to be
installed in ESCOM's various branches to enhance the speed of information flow to
headquarters and to strengthen its in-house planning capability; (ii) Studies on



- 3 -
electricity tariffs and asset revaluation; and (iii) Transmission and distribution system
studies.
7.    Part - D: Charcoal Production and Marketing Component, providing for: (a)
Consultancy services to: (i) advise on and monitor the performance of softwood charcoal
production from forest thinnings and its marketing; (ii) advise on commercialization of charcoal
production and marketing; (ii) advise Government and potential industrial and agro-industrial
consumers on charcoal utilization; and (iv) prepare specifications for procurement of vehicles
and equipment for charcoal production and performance monitoring; and (b) Procurement of
vehicles and equipment for charcoal production and performance monitoring.
8.    Part - E: Wood Energy Component, covered the following sub-components:
* E(i): Institutional Development: involving: (a) establishment of an improved
management and protection of indigenous woodlands; wood pricing reforms and
improved revenue collection; (b) setting up of pilot extension schemes in nine
districts; and (c) the establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit and a
Planning Unit in the Forestry Department and the strengthening of the existing units.
3 E(ii): Wood Production: (a) promotion of tree growing by the private sector through
provision of seedlings from Government retail nurseries, including the establishment
of 60 retail nurseries to sell seedlings to smallholders and estates and provision of tree
planting incentive bonuses to smallholders; and (b) establishment of some 2,800 ha
of Government fuelwood plantations on the environmentally fragile slopes of Mount
Mulanje.
• E(iii): Wood Conservation: assistance with production and marketing of fuel
efficient cooking stoves and reducing wood consumption in tobacco curing.
* E(iv) Support Services:-consisting of assistance for training and applied research.
9.    Part - F: Energy Pricing Study provided for consultancy services to carry out an energy
pricing study, covering liquid fuels, woodfuel and coal and interfuel substitution possibilities
particularly in industry, households and transport.
C.   Achievements of Project Objectives
10.   Power Component. The completion of Tedzani III, albeit with substantial delay and
cost increase, has provided the needed additional hydroelectric capacity of 50MW in a least cost
manner, and has improved availability of hydro power. Each of the two units has supplied
continuously almost 27 MW, more than the specified 25.8MW, and essential guaranteed figures
have been exceeded. Because of the fine and high quantity of silt, ESCOM would closely
monitor the operation of the specially designed cooling water system. Guaranteed values on
cavitaion would be checked after about 8000 hours of operation. As revealed by the experience
since the commissioning of Tedzani III, load shedding, which was rampart during the last two



- 4 -
years especially during peak periods and when breakdown of units occurred, would be avoided
and curtailed demand would also be met. The rehabilitation of the existing hydroelectric plants,
though not fully realized to avoid capacity shortages, particularly during the dry periods of the
last two years, has also assisted in improving the reliability of power supply and has minimized
the use of the expensive gas turbine and diesel standby generating plants.
11.  In regard to ESCOM's Institutional Strengthening, prompt transfer of billing
information from distant 8 operating centers to processing centers in Blantyre and Lilongwe has
been achieved through the installation of personal computers. The Tariff Study has achieved
the desired objective of determining the average incremental cost of electricity supply, and
recommended a revised tariff structure and tariff rates including seasonal, off peak and time of
day rates. Connection fees for the various categories were also assessed. ESCOM adopted, since
October 1992, the proposed structure and was in the process of moving tariff rates gradually
towards of the average incremental cost of power supply. The process was, however, derailed by
the floating of the Kwacha in February, 1994 (para 27). The Asset Revaluation Study has
introduced appropriate software for use by ESCOM in annually updating reinstatement values of
ESCOM's facilities in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement. The specific
objective of this subcomponent has thus been achieved, currently enabling ESCOM to generate
annually, together with its audited accounts, supplementary financial statements which include
rate of return on revalued asset basis, pursuant to the provisions of the on-going Power V Credit
Agreement. The Transmission Study has determined and costed transmission needs to meet
estimated demand, improve quality and reliability of supply and reduce losses. The subsidiary
objective of training ESCOM's staff in basic planning and designing techniques of transmission
systems was done at the Consultant's headquarters for 3 of ESCOM's professional staff. Loss
reduction study on the distribution system was carried out with the assistance of ESMAP, with
intensive training of ESCOM staff to sustain future operations. Non-technical losses were
identified during the study, and losses which were over 17% during the initiation of the study
now are near 14%. Although resource limitations hindered ESCOM from fully implementing the
recommendations of the Transmission and Distribution System Study, results achieved in loss
reduction and in transmission system reliability render the achievement of this subcomponent
satisfactory (Table 5A).
12.  In light of the above, the Power Component's overall achievement is stated satisfactory,
although the sector's financial performance (discussed in para 27 below) has lately deteriorated,
,affecting the Component's sustainability, due to indecision by Government. Accordingly, the
Component's sustainability is assessed unlikely (para. 45), and the Government's performance is
stated to be deficient (para.5 1).
13.   Charcoal Component. The charcoal component has satisfactorily established that the
use of waste and surplus wood in Government forest plantations (particularly thinnings from the
Viphya) could be an effective strategy for least cost and environmentally sound woodfuel supply
for Malawi. Specifically, the pilot projects proved that softwood charcoal has the potential to be
an effective substitute fuel in the tobacco and some other industries and in the urban household
market where up to now the use of hardwood charcoal from indigenous woodlands has been in
use at the expense of an accelerating environmental degradation. However, the ambitious



objective of commercializing the production and marketing of the operation within only a year
was not achieved, and further action will be needed to achieve this objective (para.60).
14.   Wood Energy Component. The Wood Energy Component has, to a large extent,
achieved its objectives, although it fell short in terms of wood energy pricing and recovery of
economic rent for indigenous trees cut, as well as in conservation and management of indigenous
wood resources. Through extension activities and other government support, the situation is
such that at the end of the project the private sector, notably smallholder farmers and schools
have assumed a significant and, depending on Government follow-on support programs, a
sustainable role in production of wood for fuel and poles. This includes private sector production
of a major share of planting stock. Significant amounts of wood for fuel and poles have been
produced by both the private sector and at the Mulanje plantations. At the same time these
plantations have had a major environmental impact on what was previously steep wooded slopes
being cut over for squatter farmers. More efficient utilization of woodfuels has also been
achieved with the widespread production and sales of some 500,000 improved charcoal stoves.
15.   Energy Pricing Study Component. The Energy Pricing Study has achieved the
objective of signaling the economic cost of energy supply. The study estimated economic costs
of liquid fuels, woodfuel and coal, examined interfuel substitution possibilities including
electricity, and recommended overall policy options, objectives and strategies. The
recommendation of the Study have laid the foundation for policy initiatives taken by
Government. These include: the removal of the Price Stabilization Fund from petroleum price
setting in April 1995, the complete removal of paraffin subsidies, and changing the role of the
Mining Investment and Development Corporation from mining to promotional activity following
the privatization of the coal mining operations at Mchenga. Sound woodfuel pricing policy has
yet to be introduced. In addition, the methodology used in the study has proven to be of use to
the Government in updating energy prices.
D.   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting The Project
16.   The Power Component. A least cost power development study carried out by a
consultant assisted the preparation and appraisal of the Tedzani III power scheme which was
subsequently optimized by an engineering consultant. The other subcomponents were prepared
by ESCOM with the help of consultants and Bank staff. The Credit was approved by the Board
on March 14, 1989. The originally planned effectiveness date of November 28, 1989 was not
realized until February 6, 1990. This delay combined with delays in the procurement cycle and
construction delays experienced on the Main Civil Works, partly due to lack of proper planning
initially and partly consequential delay caused by other contracts, resulted in the extension of the
original closing date of December 31, 1994 to February 28, 1996, after one extension. The delay
has contributed to cost increases. Although demand did not grow as originally anticipated due to
decline in economic growth (item 15 of Table 5A), capacity shortage contributed to frequent
interruptions during 1993 - 1995 (item 10 of Table 5A).
17.   Some 13 contracts, finally valued at US$93 million in total, were executed by ESCOM to
implement the Power component. Of these, 9 were for the construction of the 50MW Tedzani III



- 6 -
hydroelectric power plant. The first contract was for engineering services which was signed on
October 31, 1990, although the solicitation for the proposals was distributed on February 13,
1990. The Government's involvement in the whole procurement cycle was the main reason for
the major part of this delay. Considering the impact such an intervention was likely to have on
the other contracts of Tedzani III, agreement was reached that Government's mandatory review
would be limited to the recommendation of the contract award. The delay in awarding the
engineering services contract, however, also delayed the issuance of the bid and contract
documents for Tedzani III. Table 5A (item 1) for Key Indicators shows that processing the
procurement of the Main Civil Works funded by the Bank took nine months in terms of actual
dates. Part of this delay resulted from a complaint by one of the competitors for the Civil Works
on the bid evaluation, which held up issuance of a no-objection to the Borrower's
recommendation. Although the original recommendations remained valid, clarification by the
Bank required a period of about 3 months. The Electrical Works contract is the exception which
agreed with the SAR's optimistic provision of two months, in spite of differences (which had to
be sorted out) between the Borrower and the Bank in the selection of the prospective contractor.
18.   Cost Increases and Financing. Tedzani III, accounting for more than 78% of the
original estimated cost of the Energy I Project, encountered the major problem of cost increases
almost from the beginning. During negotiations of the Energy I Credit in Washington DC, the
financing of the turbines, generators and the power house crane was increased from Austrian
Schillings (ASchs) 218 million to 235 million (almost US$18 million). Subsequent discussions
between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Malawi resulted in a further increase to
ASchs 277 million (an increase of 17.9 %, in ASchs terms or 46.6 % in US$ terms due to
appreciation of the Austrian Schillings). Part of the increase is accounted for by the higher
inertia constant advocated by the Engineer's optimized design for the generating units, and part
could very well be due to the limited competition within Austria for deliveries. The increase in
inertia constant was to improve the stability of ESCOM's growing power system. This increase
meant more robust design for the generating units which called for a more robust structure for the
power house. The increase in cost of the civil works, from US$ 23.72 million to US$ 36.55
million in total, or 54.1 % over the original estimate in US$ terms can be attributed to: ( i)
heavier structures than originally anticipated; (ii) lower initial base costs for some items like
concrete and rock excavations and (iii) impact of inflation due to the postponement of the
construction period, originally commencing on 5/91 and ending 4/94 (33 months) to
commencing on 11/92 and ending 10/95 (also 33 months, but with a delay of 16 months); and
more importantly (v) the appreciation of the European Currency Unit (ECU), the currency of
payment to the main civil works contractor, vis-a-vis the US$, the cost increase in ECU terms
amounting to only 18.7%, from ECU18.7 million to ECU22.2 million, for the major share of the
cost paid in foreign currency. The extension of about 16 months on the engineering services
(about 33% additional time on the original contract) combined with the appreciation of the
Deutche Mark (DM), the currency of payment to the Engineer, has also increased the
engineering services cost by about 46.1 % in US$ terms from US$5.4 million to US$7.9 million
and by 22.1 % in DM terms from DM 9.9 million to DM 11.97 million. The divergence in cost
increases when expressed in various currencies demonstrate that the practice of converting
currencies solely to United States Dollars for purposes of cost estimates during project
preparation and for re-estimating costs during implementation can be misleading. For the latter



- 7 -
case, the currency of payment is the nearest to reality. For the former, either a basket of the
major currencies or the currencies of the main trading partners of the Borrower might provide a
more accurate forecast.
19.   During appraisal of the Energy I project and the subsequent appraisal of the Power V
project, coinciding with the early phases of the implementation of the Energy I project,
ESCOM's financial position was assessed to be sufficiently sound for it to contribute to local
currency requirements of the two projects and the investment program of the power sector. The
only concern was whether Government's foreign currency reserve position would permit
ESCOM to purchase adequate foreign exchange to pay for services rendered or goods procured.
However, ESCOM's financial position, particularly during the latter half of the implementation
period of Tedzani III, became precarious and additional sourcing of foreign currency was needed
to complete the project.
20.   The Republic of Austria had already at the start of the project, committed additional
funds to finance the increased cost of the generating units. In regard to the cost increase for the
civil works and the engineering services for Tedzani III being financed by IDA, because of
IDA's involvement in two energy projects, further support to meet cost increases was not
entertained and the Government looked for other sources when internal cash accumulation by
ESCOM was proven unattainable and foreign currency situation of Malawi was not also that
fluid. Preferential Trade Area (PTA) Bank provided an amount of 6 million Units of Account
(equivalent to about US$ 8.4 million) to help finance the electrical control and transmission link.
This released a corresponding amount for the civil works being financed by the Bank. The latest
cost to completion indicates a shortfall of about US$6 million which ESCOM was still seeking,
and PTA was considering to finance the shortfall.
21.   Tedzani III Claims. The civil works contractor for Tedzani III was slow in mobilizing
and starting construction works. Site management and planning were weak initially. This
prompted the Engineer to instruct the Contractor, after just about a year of site activity, to
accelerate the work at no cost to the Employer. The contractor acquired additional plant and
equipment and changed key expatriate staff responsible for site management. However, soon
after the Contractor made several claims, which by the end of the construction totaled almost
41% of the foreign currency amount and 51.4% of the local currency amount of the original
contract. Main areas of the claim were: the Malawi Kwacha Devaluation Claim which,
according to the Contractor resulted in an excessive local inflation requiring him to import
foreign currency; claim for time extension for the headrace tunnel and the power house
construction activities; and the acceleration claim despite an initial agreement that the
acceleration was to have been undertaken at no cost to the Employer. The Engineer's ruling and
an independent opinion sought by the Employer persuaded the parties to the Contract to settle the
matter amicably rather than proceed to arbitration. Claims on Electrical Works (exceeding 170%
of the original contract amount) are, however, still under discussion, and because of
disagreement on the legal basis of the claims is unlikely to be resolved in the near term.
22.   Despite delays, cost increases and claims, the Tedzani III power scheme started
successful operation in December 1995 (first unit December 5 and second unit December 18).



- 8 -
High quality of construction of the main civil works and plant output higher than the guaranteed
values (27 MW compared to 25.8MW) are recorded. Efficiencies are also above the guaranteed
values. The fine silt contained in the Shire river called for a special design of the cooling water
system of the generating plant. This aspect and possible corrosion of metal parts in contact with
water and cavitation in turbines will be monitored closely by the operating staff in accordance
with operating manuals and special instructions being provided by the Engineer. Rectification of
minor defects on the draft tube which caused noise and vibrations was in progress. Tedzani III,
the major component of the Energy I project, has satisfactorily achieved its required objective of
increasing the capacity of the power system by 50MW. The economic rate of return is 5% much
below the appraisal estimate of 11%, mainly due to lower energy benefits and low tariff levels
(Table 9A).
23.   The needed spares and materials for Generation Rehabilitation were delivered, but, due
to shortage of generation capacity, rehabilitation could not be done on all the originally targeted
units, but only on critical areas. All the air coolers (major causes for numerous outages) of the
Tedzani I and II machines were replaced. The circulating water system of one of the four units
of Tedzani I and II was rehabilitated; that of the second unit was delayed as was the replacement
of mechanical regulators by electronic voltage regulators as well as the replacement of Nkula's
turbine parts, pending the commissioning of Tedzani III to avoid load shedding. The
rehabilitation already carried out has helped slightly improve availability of the generation units.
Future supervision missions will follow up the completion of the generation rehabilitation works.
24.   The computers installed under the Institutional Strengthening Component of the
Project catered for improving cash receipting, inventory control, electricity meter readings and
transmittal of the readings either by dial up facilities or, where such facilities are not available,
by floppy disc to the two processing centers in Blantyre and Lilongwe, which were also provided
with new facilities (mid-range computers). The supplier did not provide appropriate conversion
tools (from the then existing to the new computers). This caused delay in the use of the new
facilities until a new contractor took over the conversion. Additional PCs were procured which
assisted ESCOM in improving the performance of its management and in carrying out, in a
sustainable manner, system studies including loss reduction in its distribution system. The
component has introduced computer literacy at senior and middle staff level in ESCOM.
25.   The implementation of the recommendations of the Tariff Study of this Institutional
Strengthening component was started within a few months of receipt of the final version of the
study and a new tariff structure was put into force as of November 1992. Table 5A (item 12)
shows the level of tariffs in relation to the average incremental cost of supply. In Kwacha terms,
the increase from November 1992 to January 1995 was 1 15.8%; in US$ terms it was negative
35.3%, thus receding from the heavily foreign currency denominated financing requirements of
ESCOM (para.27). ESCOM's connection fees were fixed over ten years back and are thus
considered by ESCOM to be nominal relative to current costs. Capacity constraints due to
drought limited the possibilities of attracting additional customers to avail themselves of the
special rates; with the commissioning of Tedzani III and after the stabilization of the flow from
lake Malawi , ESCOM may venture to attract potential customers. Attainment of the objectives
of the tariff study have been impeded by unforeseen developments on Malawi's economy.



-9-
26.   For the Transmission Study sub-component, the procurement and installation of
computer hardware and software was realized, and 3 of ESCOM's professional staff were given
on-the-job training on the computer facilities for load flow, short circuit and protection studies.
ESCOM is carrying out some transmission system analysis with the use of the computer. The
main thrust of the distribution system loss reduction study was the training of ESCOM staff to
carry out loss studies with the use of computer hardware and software provided by the ESMAP
program. The study has made specific recommendations, totaling US$19 million in 1992 prices,
which would have substantially improved technical losses and aggressively curtailed non-
technical losses. Some of these recommendations like improvement of the billing system and
distribution reinforcement are included in the ongoing Power V project, and are awaiting
financing. The specific objective of reducing losses has thus been partially achieved. The
construction of the 132kV line from Nkula to Lilongwe has improved reliability of the
transmission system, but the shortage in generation capacity referred to above has resulted in
frequent interruptions of supply to Lilongwe. The output of the Transmission and Distribution
system study is making useful contributions to system reliability and efficiency.
27.   Power Sector's Financial Performance. The impact of the devaluation was aggravated
by the fact that over 90% of ESCOM's debt service and almost 75% of its debt are denominated
in foreign currency. This led to to very significant escalation in debt servicing and underlying
debt in terms of Kwacha. Spiralling domestic inflation, brought about largely by devaluation, led
to sharp rises in operational costs, such as salaries, fuel, maintenance spares and other supplies
and services. The prolonged drought considerably reduced electricity demand growth; during the
six years ending March 1996, electricity sales rose by 44% compared to 56% forecast at
appraisal. Generation capacity shortages were also experienced due to the low level of Lake
Malawi as well as the reduced live storage of Nkula daily regulating reservoir, resulting in
frequent and, at times, prolonged load shedding. The political and social unrest preceding the
elections of 1993 created considerable disruption to the economic environment. In line with
other parastatals and government departments, salaries had to be increased by 64% in 1992 as a
result of labor unrest. Regular increases in tariffs, which were norm until about early part of
1993, could no longer be relied upon. Ever since the change in Government following the
democratic elections in May 1993, the issue of tariffs has come into the public domain, and the
decision making process within the Government has therefore invariably resulted in delayed
approvals. Moreover, the authorized increases are much less than the required levels, thereby
calling for subsequent jerky increases.
28.   For all the above reasons, the financial performance of ESCOM declined gradually from
a very healthy position in 1989/90 through 1991/93 tobecoming an insolvent utility in the near
term, unless major tariff adjustrnents are made. Electricity tariffs since April 1991 to April 1996
have risen from an average of 12.59 tarnbala/kWh (US cents 4.34) to 48.16 tarnbala/kWh (US
cents 3.12), an increase of 282.5% (or an average annual increase of 23.1%) in local currency
terms and a decline of 28.9% ( or an average annual decline of 1.96%) in US$ terms,
demonstrating that: (i) tariffs have not kept pace with the decline in the value of the Kwacha; (ii)
ESCOM's financing requirements are heavily influenced by exchange rate fluctuations due to its
heavy dependence on foreign currency denominations for debt repayment and for major
investments. As a result ESCOM complied with the 30% self financing ratio covenant only for



- 10-
two out of the six year period of project implementation. However, the debt service coverage of
1.5 was achieved for all the years except 1994/95 when it was 1.0. Gradual and timely increases
were not implemented due to Government assuming the responsibility for approval of tariffs in
lieu of laying down basic pricing policy and empowering ESCOM' s Board to set tariffs within
the policy framework of the Government. One such policy could be a tariff adjustment formula
designed to respond to exchange rate fluctuations and to inflation. Another possibility would be
to refer only those tariff increases in excess of a prescribed limit (say inflation) to the
Government.
29.   Power Component's Project Management. Consultants (referred to as the Engineer)
were employed to help in the detail design, preparation of bidding documents, and supervision of
construction of the Tedzani III hydroelectric scheme and associated facilities. An engineer was
appointed by ESCOM as project manager from the early stages of project implementation
liaising between cofinanciers, ESCOM and the Consultants. Progress reporting was
regularized, and was an improvement on the Engineer's progress reports, especially with regard
to up-to-date disbursements and implementation schedules of all components of the project.
Project accounting was of a high standard. Training of ESCOM's technical staff was carried out
at the supplier's works for generators and turbines, followed by on-the-job training during site
installation of the generating units. Some engineers were assigned to work with the Consultants
to acquire basic experience on administration and supervision of contracts. The project
management team kept a close watch on compliance with environmental requirements, and was
busy replanting trees in degraded areas during and before the visit of the ICR mission.
ESCOM's responsibility on resettlement of 234 people, already completed, was also supervised
by the same team.
30.   Charcoal Production and Marketing Component. Consultants were employed under a
Project Preparation Facility to carry through the pilot phase of the softwood charcoal production
to a commercial phase. Towards this end, under guidance of consultants, eight softwood
production centers (with 124 beehive shaped brick kilns) in the Viphya forest in the north and
one center (with 6 kilns) in Chambe forest in Mulanje mountains were established. The six
centers increased their capacity from 6,000 (the pilot phase's capacity) to 9,500 tons per year
during this commercial phase. To ease transport problems during the trial operations and to
introduce softwood charcoal to the market, the Borrower purchased a 20-ton truck trailer under
the project. The pilot scheme helped determine charcoal sizes for various uses as follows: lump
charcoal for households, agroindustries and small industry, pea-size charcoal for large scale
industries, and charcoal fines for the cement industry. The charcoal production effort was
coordinated with fuel efficient barn designs at the premises of the tobacco growing estates, and
with charcoal stoves for households.
31.   A total of 2,000 tons was marketed to the tobacco and cement industries in 1989, well
below the short - term sustainable target of 11,000 tons (of which 57% was estimated to be used
by industries, 23% by tobacco and tea states, and 20% by urban households). During the
commercial phase efforts were made to establish a distribution network for the urban households
in the main cities of Lilongwe and Blantyre, and had planned extensions in Zomba and Mzuzu.
In addition to supporting the operations of the Viphya charcoal production through a Treasury



- I1 -
Fund Account, policy incentives introduced by Government to help commercialize the
production and marketing of softwood charcoal included: (i) confiscation of hardwood charcoal
which proved to be ineffective; (ii) gazetting of the commercialization of charcoaling operations
including licensing of forestry resources which, because of the high cost of transport, did not
attract the private sector to the Viphya forest. The estimated 10,000 ton annual potential
consumption of softwood charcoal was therefore not achieved. Use of Mulanje's softwood
charcoal, relatively close to the market, has a better chance of success if handed over to a private
operator for which motivation and initial support may be needed. It should, however, be pointed
out that part of the reason for the failure of this component could be weakness in the linkage
between the consultant and the Forestry Department - the designated implementing agency for
the component. Ownership appeared to have been assumed by the consultant rather than the
Forestry Department, probably due to changes in senior positions at the Forestry Department.
Follow up practically ceased after the completion of the services by the consultant. However, the
recommendations of the consultant should be re-evaluated and, as may be needed redesigned,
and included in a related program on woodfuels (para. 60).
32.   The Wood Energy Component. The implementation experience of the four
subcomponents (Institutional Development, Wood Production, Wood Conservation and Support
Services) is recorded as follows.
33.  Institutional Development: The achievement under this sub-component was mixed.
The management and protection of the indigenous forests was unsatisfactory. Although 1720
village forest areas (VFAs) were established by the end of the project, most of these were too
small to be significant and very little boundary surveying or management planing had been done.
In fact the situation of tenure related to these customary land woodlands does not appear to have
been understood at project preparation/appraisal, thus restricting the scope of the program. On
the other hand, control over the cutting and sale of indigenous woodfuels was poor, with
increasing amounts of such appearing on the market and with very little stumpage revenue being
collected. The situation was confused by the fact that a ban on the cutting of indigenous wood
for sale was imposed in 1989, after the Energy I appraisal. The assumption was that plantation
for woodfuels, largely coniferous, and farm woodfuels would substitute for the indigenous wood.
However, this was over optimistic and unrealistic, particularly without the necessary support
interventions. The result was illegal, unmanaged overcutting of the preferred indigenous wood
with confiscations through project roadblocks only amounting to about 2% of the estimated
indigenous woodfuels sold in urban centres. In the last year of the project, however, progress has
been made with establishment of village forestry committees and development of some plans,
but the legislation to support this is lacking. Although several supervision missions urged FD to
rescind the ban on indigenous wood cutting and bring such under better management, this was
not done. In the latter two years, with a combination of political irresponsibility before multi-
party elections and severe drought, the cutting of indigenous wood for fuel was rampant.
34.   Although woodfuel stumpages were increased in two large increments over the life of the
project, from MK2.70 to at first MK25 followed by a further increase to MK45 per stacked m3,
the failure to collect revenue to any meaningful extent meant that preferred woodfuel species
were available as "free" goods, which has not assisted in promoting private sector production of



- 12-
wood. Revenues collected amounted to only 7 to 12% of the SAR annual targets and only about
2 to 4% of what could potentially have been collected for commercial woodfuels nationally.
Implementation of this aspect is, therefore, unsatisfactory.
35.   Pilot extension schemes were established in nine districts and have been relatively
successful in assisting the private production of wood. Some 12,400 farmers were trained at
Agriculture Training Centers, and this, coupled with publicity have been major factors in good
farmer response to raising seedlings and tree growing. Farmer/institutional seedling production
for the project was 30.4 million compared with an SAR target of 3.8 million. A survey
conducted in 1995 showing over 60% survival on average for trees planted, a creditable
performance, given often difficult weather conditions. Lack of training facilities and funds
curtailed further farmer training. It was also recognized at the Mid Term Review (MTR) that
market linkages for farmers wishing to sell woodfuels and seedlings needed to be greatly
improved as a major incentive. Lack of consideration for this at appraisal was a flaw in the
design of the Component. A detailed evaluation of the extension system should have been
undertaken in the latter stages of the project with recommendations being given on
improvements, including possible links with agriculture extension. Achievements under
extension are satisfactory.
36.   The Monitoring and Evaluation (M & E) Unit's achievements should in general be
considered satisfactory. Although more could have been achieved if initial work done by
consultants was built upon and staff assigned were more stable, notable achievements have been
made including comprehensive and timely annual reports and the undertaking of several useful
surveys to determine the effectiveness of extension and tree planting schemes. However, a
system of regular monitoring to determine project effectiveness, as distinct from activities and
outputs, is still lacking.
37.   An additional task performed by the Management and Planning Unit, under the project,
was a Forest Resources Mapping and Biomass Assessment, and included training of staff in
geographic information systems operations. This was undertaken to better understand the
woodfuel supply situation. Useful information on the woody biomass situation was generated,
including a time series showing forest cover depletion and 1:250,000 ground cover maps.
38.   Wood Production: The promotion of tree growing and wood production through retail
nurseries seedling sales was satisfactory. Approximately 41 million seedlings were raised
against an SAR target of 50 million, the shortfall being more than compensated for by private
production. However, sales of seedlings are estimated to only be 63% or 26 million from FD
nurseries, with drought conditions being a major contributor to the less than optimum sales. FD
consistently under-priced the seedlings at 40% of production costs for regular sales and 10% for
Carlsberg bottle top sales, something that did not assist private seedling production. However,
the use of an incentive bonus, determined on the basis of a survey conducted prior to the MTR,
was proven to be almost irrelevant in promoting tree growing, while at the same time being
overly costly to manage. It was subsequently phased out. The combination of both private and
Government raised seedling as planted by farmers and schools and surviving is estimated to be



- 13 -
equivalent to 14,000ha of woodlots with a total expected annual yield of some 150,000 m3, of
which, based on surveys of farmers, wood for fuel would amount to about 40%.
39.   The Mulanje plantations are satisfactory. Growth rates have exceeded SAR estimates by
at least 50%, and more on some sites, meaning that rotations could be cut from a projected five to
four years. The expected annual yield is about 90,000 mi3. However, the expected financial
benefits have not been realized because of delays in preparing logging and marketing plans, the
poor state of the road system in the plantations and the lack of focus on marketing by FD.
Although the poor quality and backlogs on the plantation roads was commented on by each
supervision mission since 1990, FD seemed unable to prioritize funding for this as against the
establishment of the plantations themselves. Further equipment and funding should have been
provided for road construction on the steep and rocky slopes at appraisal of Wood Energy II.
40.   Wood Conservation: An improved charcoal stove was designed and tested under Wood
Energy II, and through Energy I assistance was provided to support fabricators/entrepreneurs and
to encourage marketing of these low cost stoves. This was done through training, publicity and
demonstrations, though a credit facility to support the entrepreneurs only disbursed MK 18,000
out of an available MK 150,000, after a very late start and overly bureaucratic procedures. This
improved stove program has been highly satisfactory with about 500,000 stoves having been sold
by the time the project closed. Propagation of the stoves was assisted by flow-on effects from
UNHCR's catering to refugees, with many entrepreneurs catering for these outside the original
main towns included in the Component's stove program. It is felt the private sector momentum
should now carry on beyond the project. The adoption of more efficient fuelwood techniques for
tobacco curing has been relatively successful with an estimated adoption rate of over 50%
following demonstrations and deployment of extension agents.
41.   Support Services: Considerable delays were experienced in the construction of
additions to the Malawi College of Forestry, because of bureaucratic procedures with respect to
contracting. The additions were finally done through force account, but completed too late for
significant training of technical and vocational staff. This training program, that was needed to
assist with extension and woodland management could therefore be considered to be only
partially satisfactory.
42.   Assistance for applied research for more efficient growing of wood by the private sector
was provided through the construction of buildings and provision of vehicles for the Forest
Research Institute of Malawi (FRIM). The research carried out could be said to be satisfactory,
although dissemination of the results to the field has been slow. The Component has also
worked closely with ODA sponsored research into miombo woodland management, including
participatory management by villagers.
43.   Delays in civil works and procurement hampered effective implementation of field
activities in the early stages. Limited annual financial allocations also meant that field activities,
such as plantation establishment and roads were scaled back. Wages and salary costs that
escalated by 550% and 100% respectively over the first two and half years affected the use of



- 14-
available funds. It should also be noted that recurring droughts or poor rains affected the sale of
seedlings and tree growing by farmers and schools during several of the project years.
44.   Project Management and Staffing. The Component was adversely affected by early
management deficiencies. This applied to financial management, as well as to coordination and
management of sub-components. The situation was rectified to a large extent by the appointment
of a dedicated component manager, following the MTR in 1992, although continuing difficulties
with a financial controller persisted. To the end of the project two of three senior staff positions
(assistant project coordinators) were not filled. Although the Component Manager took on the
job of extension and publicity, this should have been allocated to a separate officer, given its
pivotal role in sustaining effective private sector production of wood. The lack of an assistant
project coordinator for Indigenous Forest Management probably also contributed to the poor
performance of this sub-component. It was also discovered that the Area Control Units (ACUs)
associated with indigenous forest management were too large for the one forestry assistant
appointed. These staffing deficiencies were symptomatic of the deteriorating staffing situation in
FD mid - way through the project, with an average professional vacancy rate of 40%. There was
also a high turnover of senior staff associated with the Component over the first four years, with
many staff that were appointed being inexperienced.
E.   Project Sustainability
45.   Power Component. The fast depreciation and the eventual flotation of the Kwacha has
adversely affected ESCOM's financial position which has deteriorated markedly during the last
two years (paras. 27 & 28). The call for transparency introduced since the democratic elections
is slowing decision on tariff setting which is currently affecting ESCOM's financial
performance. Given the decision making process of the Government, the sustainability of the
power sector is unlikely. In the medium to long term,however, Government's focus on
privatization and the proposed amendment of the Electricity Act should help bring about the
commercialization of ESCOM, possibly followed by its corporatization. This, assisted by
ESCOM's established and growing know-how, will lay the lasting foundation for the
sustainability of the power component. The momentum gained through the project's focus on
system efficiency and reliability through rehabilitation, reinforcement and training will help
ensure sustainability of improving the performance of the technical facilities. Short term
technical assistance associated with Tedzani III will enhance the established competence of
ESCOM to operate hydroelectric power plants through guidance on latest methodologies for
plant maintenance and improved operational performance.
46.   Charcoal Component. Commercialization of the production and marketing of initially
the Mulanje plantations followed by similar commercialization and privatization effort of all
similar operations in Malawi are crucial steps that should be taken to make this component
sustainable. Follow up actions are recommended below (para. 59).
47.   Wood Energy Component. The good grounding in the private sector involvement of
both raising seedlings and growing trees augers well for the future sustainability of this aspect of
the Component, though to sustain the momentum started under the project further improved



- 15 -
extension support will be needed that will include marketing assistance. The sustainability of the
Mulanje plantations as a source of woodfuels and poles will depend on the Government
committing adequate funding for supervision of private harvesting as well as for management.
In the last two years of the Component's efforts to secure Treasury approval for a revolving fund
for these operations have been unsuccessful. Without adequate and timely funding, the
sustainability of wood production from the plantations could be jeopardized. The momentum
achieved in private sector production of improved charcoal stoves should be maintained beyond
the project. The future of training and research to support private sector production of wood will
depend on adequate funding for it to be sustainable. The future sustainability of any forestry
related extension or indigenous forest management will depend on having qualified senior staff
as managers.
F.    Bank Performance
48.   Power Component. The Power Component of the Energy I project was prepared and
appraised on the basis of a least cost power development study. Ideally this should have been
followed by a detailed feasibility study on the selected scheme - Tedzani III. HoWever, in view
of the urgency of the Project, optimization of the scheme under the engineering services was
preferred to better define the technical features of Tedzani III. The SAR's basic assumptions on
exchange rates and inflation, upon which financial covenants were established did not
materialize, and are the main factors affecting the financial performance of the power utility.
Although foreign exchange risks are anticipated and provided for in legal documents, their
magnitude could not have been fully contemplated. Minimizing the Component's financial cost
was part of the justification for constructing Tedzani III before Kapichira, which was estimated
to result in 20% saving in financial terms. The risk of energy deficits (discussed in the SAR)
resulting from probable consecutive dry years almost materialized with the lowest discharge in a
number of years of 129 m3/sec into the Shire in December 1995. This initiated the Shire River
Management Project with pumping of lake Malawi to sustain firm flow of 190 m3/sec as the
most likely mitigating measure. Supervision, averaging two per year for a power engineer and
one for a financial analyst, recorded project progress, bringing forth problem areas and
recommending actions to be taken. Missions' interactions with the Borrower's project
management team transferred know-how in project management and supervision. Overall,
Bank's performance on the Power Component is considered satisfactory.
49.   Charcoal Production Component. The Charcoal production and marketing component,
carried out by a consultant under a Project Preparation Facility, was almost completed when the
Energy I project was submitted to the Board in March 1989. The final report of the Consultant,
though ambitious in its forecasts of potential markets for pine wood charcoal, records results of
investigations and makes specific recommendations for future actions. Bank's supervision made
about the end of activities has expressed reservations about the market forecast. Follow up by
supervision missions of the Energy I project, after completion of the consultants activities, was
negligible partly due to lack of ownership on the Borrower's side (para.3 1).
50.   Wood Energy Component. The appraisal of the Wood Energy component was an
updating of a stalled IBRD funded (Ln. No. 2670-MAI) Wood Energy II project. Malawi's



- 16-
external debt situation had deteriorated during the latter half of the 1980s and, as a result, neither
the Borrower nor the Bank considered it prudent to continue financing Wood Energy II on IBRD
terms. The Loan was therefore canceled, and the relevant features transferred to the Energy I
project, then under preparation. The Wood Energy II components were reappraised by Bank
mission, and the revised version thereof was included as part of the Energy I project, with no
change in the objectives and hardly any change in scope of the Component. Supervision,
including a Mid Term Review and a Workshop towards the close of the component and focusing
on the supply side, assisted the Borrower to monitor and evaluate the performance of some 13
subcomponents and to identify outputs to be sustained after the close of the Energy I project.
G.   Borrower Performance
51.   Power Component. The initial intervention by Government in the whole procurement
cycle was partly responsible for delays in implementation. Government was, however, quick to
recognize the implications of undue interference. Government's intervention has, during the last
2-3 years, taken a new dimension in the area of tariff setting. Timely decision on regular tariff
increases, however small, used to be a norm in Malawi and had assured ESCOM's viability as a
relatively strong parastatal. If the current financial situation of ESCOM is allowed to persist on
account of indecision by Government, ESCOM's creditworthiness as well as the integrity of the
Government's overall fiscal framework will be in jeopardy. The Government's performance in
regard to the power sector has been seriously affected by indecision, and is deemed deficient.
52.   Charcoal Component. The Government has been supportive in introducing policy
measures to help commercialize softwood charcoal production and marketing. However, the
project design did not provide sufficient ground work in the form of public awareness to
encourage the necessary market network and bring forth private sector participation; more
requires to be done in this connection (para 59).
53.   Wood Energy Component. In general Government's performance has been satisfactory
with a few shortcomings. These include the non-provision of senior headquarters management
staff and very poor financial control in the first half of the project, including repeated delays in
audit report submission. However, FD did react positively to appointing a Component Manager
and did improve financial control following IDA recommendations at MTR. Inadequate budget
allocations also adversely effected field activities, including plantation road construction and
farmer training. Although Treasury did respond to appeals from IDA to increase allocations,
these were too late in the year to be really effective. Government did, however, assume
responsibility for salaries and a percentage of recurrent operating costs in the last year of the
project; these should continue to ensure sustainability.
H.   Assessment of Outcomes
54.   The Power Component has provided, after some delay and cost increases, the much
needed additional capacity to the system. The other Power subcomponents have helped improve
the reliability and efficiency of the power system, strengthened the utility's capability to manage
not only implementation of projects but also its technical facilities. The adoption by ESCOM the



- 17-
recommendations of the various studies under the project is creating performance based culture,
which can only be sustained by strengethening ESCOM's autonomy over its operations (para.
58).
55.   The Charcoal Component has established that softwood charcoal produced from waste
(thinnings from Viphya) and surplus wood in Government plantations can be an important least-
cost and environmentally more friendly source of woodfuel supply. Potential markets have been
identified along with possible constraints. A set of strategies are recommended in the specially
prepared Component's completion report to effectively utilize this resource.
56.   The overall impact of the Wood Energy Component has been positive, particularly in
providing a framework for private sector production of wood for fuel, though the poor
management and protection of indigenous woodlands and the lack of economic rent collected for
indigenous wood cut for fuel does detract from the what has otherwise been a highly satisfactory
performance. Considerable quantities of wood for fuel and poles have been grown through
project interventions by the private sector, and although there is still further work to be done to
consolidate this effort, the means have been established to foster and sustain this work.
57.   The Energy Pricing Study has helped remove paraffin subsidy and Petroleum Supply
Stabilization Fund. More importantly, the study has outlined the principles and methodologies
that are needed to guide energy pricing policy, and, as such, should be useful reference to
Government.
1.    Future Operations
58.   The Power Component. Any discussions of future operations of the power sector
should stress the immediate need to reverse the recently experienced deterioration in the
financial performance of ESCOM. Any operation in which the Bank is likely to be involved
should ensure that as a matter of urgency the legal and regulatory frameworks should be in place,
and a plan of action agreed upon on the sector's restructuring including early commercialization
followed by corporatization or formation of a company. The proposed Rural Energy and Energy
Sector Institutional Development Study to be carried out by ESMAP and the Bank in
collaboration with the Government will address the institutional problems being encountered,
particularly lately, by the power sector and will propose measures, which may call for further
technical assistance, to redress them.
59.   Charcoal Component. The period of about one year for the commercialization and
privatization phase with which the consultants were entrusted was too short and had little impact
to attract the private sector. A prolonged campaign on the benefits of and the justification for the
use of softwood charcoal in lieu of hardwood charcoal would be needed. The recommendations
of the IPC report may warrant further experimentation to deal with the technical and socio-
economic constraints. A follow up program would be essential to intensify the experimentation,
2 Completion Report for the Commercialization Phase of the Malawi Charcoal Project, prepared (with PPF support)
by Interdisziplinare Project Consult Gmbh (IPC), November 1989.



- 18 -
promote further public awareness and to help (including financing) revitalize and further expand:
(i) small scale private charcoal production and marketing enterprises; (ii) cottage industries or
small enterprises for the production of improved charcoal stoves; and (iii) wholesale and retail
network for the urban households.
60.   Wood Energy Component. Several actions are needed to both maintain the momentum
that has been started under Energy I and build on the work carried out to date, particularly the
pilot operations,. These include: (a) expanding on the improved charcoal stove dissemination by
introducing acceptable improved wood stoves, particularly for rural areas, possibly learning from
Kenya's rural stoves program; (b) continuing to pursue, as a matter of some urgency, the
protection and sustainable, multiple use management of miombo woodlands, particularly those
on customary lands, where local villagers could be involved, using lessons learnt under Energy I.
Such programs should probably be linked with programs to raise farm family incomes as a
means of alleviating the overcutting of woodlands for incomes, particularly during times of
drought; (c) evaluating the pilot system of forestry extension, with recommendations for
improvements, and a standardized approach to forestry extension nationally, including potential
formal ties with agricultural extension, as per the new forest policy. Continue to provide support
for such extension as needed, both at headquarters for overall management and coordination, and
in districts not covered by other donors; (d) providing for appropriate training to enable FD to fill
vacant professional posts for extension and indigenous forest management as well as for sub-
professional staff through Malawi College of Forestry to cover the same fields. (e) providing
marketing expertise within FD to assist with marketing information and market links related to
both government plantations and private forestry; (f) establishing an up-to-date data base on the
demand and sustainable supply of wood for fuel and poles, particularly for the urban markets,
building on the biomass assessment under Energy I and the Household Energy Survey being
conducted under Power V; and (g) undertaking a program of road upgrading and maintenance in
the Mulanje plantations to enable satisfactory harvesting by contractors.
J.    Key Lessons Learned
61.   Power Component. Four important lessons can be drawn from the implementation
experience of the Power Component. First although ESCOM's legal status and its ownership did
not change, recommendations on tariffs were not acted upon in time and did not attain the levels
called for by ESCOM's requirements, possibly because of changes in the structure of the
Government during the last two years. Consequently, ESCOM has been moving from a public
utility of relatively good standing in Sub-Sahara Africa to a utility whose financial performance,
and hence its standing, is being questioned to say the least. The autonomy of ESCOM's Board
has been seriously eroded3. To ensure timely increase and strengthen accountability,
Government should empower ESCOM's Board to fix tariffs based on policy guidelines of the
Government. Such a policy could be based on tariff adjustment formula designed to respond to
major factors affecting operating expenditures, such as fluctuations in exchange rates and
3 Borrower's input to the ICR states that "The autonomy of ESCOM has not been eroded; if anything, it has
improved. However what has deteriorated is the approval machinery within Government for the electricity
tariffs and this needs to be addressed urgently taking account of the Bank's comments."



- 19-
inflation. Alternatively Government may delegate the Board to increase tariffs up to a prescribed
limit (say to respond to inflation). Second, different scenarios for exchange rates and for
inflation should be examined at project preparation phase, with indicative indexation formula for
average tariff rates. This will minimize the shock being experienced when exchange rates
assumptions prove unrealistic and could help in providing guidelines for tariff setting under
changing conditions. Third, a mid-term review would be useful to restructure as appropriate the
financial covenants (para. 28), and to assess additional financing requirements including possible
sources of financing, especially for countries where the economy is fragile and foreign currency
is scarce (paras. 18-20). Fourth future operations should, as a matter of priority, stress the need
to accelerate ESCOM's commercialization and corporatization including the role the private
sector could play in the power sector ( paras. 45, 58).
62.   Charcoal Component. The Charcoal Component has shown that pine wood charcoal
from thinnings in the Viphya forest and surplus softwood in other Government plantations can be
enviromnentally sustainable source of woodfuels. However, the ambitious short term charcoal
consumption forecasts justifying commercialization during the short period of one year of
consulting assignment did not materialize due to high transport costs from the Viphya forest to
the market centers in the south and the unrealized assumption that confiscation of hardwood
charcoal would encourage domestic use of softwood charcoal. Lack of extensive market network
was also a constraint. Ownership of the component and commitment to its objectives would be
needed to revitalize its possible benefits.
63.   Wood Energy Component. The following lessons emerged from experience under the
Wood Energy component: (a) the inclusion of market information and provision of market links
is a critical incentive for growing wood by private sector and must be part of the extension
process; (b) the failure of Government policing or control to effect protection and management of
woodlands or to collect revenue means that much greater effort should be made to involve the
communities and even families in such protection and management of woodlands with collection
and sharing of revenue by communities, following some successes with this in the latter stages of
the project; (c) any attempt at management of indigenous woodlands by local communities must
be proceeded by an understanding of the tenure of the woodlands on customary land, as much of
it has already been allocated to individual farm families; (d) a legislative framework is required
to legitimize the establishment of village/community forest areas and their protection and
management; (e) incentive bonuses, as tried under Wood Energy, had little impact on increasing
private production of wood, while being overly expensive to manage and difficult to phase out;
(f) there was insufficient in-service and formal training provided to upgrade staff and to fill
vacant component positions and, given the poor staff situation in FD, any future project must
include such training to be effective. In addition, the Forestry Department should introduce and
maintain a system of regular monitoring of sustainable outputs of the Wood Energy component
(paras. 36, 60).






- 20 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
(CREDIT 1990-MAI)






- 21 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
(V)                              0, ()            (0)
Macro Policies                                                       E] EE l
Sector Policies                                                      El E0
Financial Objectives                                                 E                 El 
Institutional Development          [J                                El               []
Physical Objectives                l3               0                [                 0
Poverty Reduction                   E               E                El
Gender Issues                       E               E                El
Other Social Objectives             E               E                El
Environmental Objectives            E                                El                El
Public Sector Management            E                                El                El
Private Sector Development          E               E                                  El
Other (specify)                     E               E                E                 E
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainabilitv              Likely                  Unlikely                 Uncerain
(/)                      (V)                        (/)
2                  1:El                      El



- 22 -
Highly
C. Bank Performance                    satisfactory         Satisfactory               Deficient
(V)                     (1)                       (/)
Identification                                                                       r ] D
Preparation Assistance             E]                                                 E l
Appraisal                           Di                                               izi
Supervision                          l                                               I0
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                      satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
(/)            (/)              (/)
Preparation                                 El                                E] 
Implementation                               a                                El
Covenant Compliance                          E              El
Operation (if applicable)                   EC              Cll
Highly                                           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfactory  Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
El)                             El)                El)  



- 23 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Preceding Operations              Purpose               Year of Approval               Status
(Amount in million US$)                              (Amount Repaid, in
million US$)
Loan 1387 (Power 111)       Electrification             March 29, 1977           Completed (1980)
(8.0)                                               (5.14)
Loan 1388 (Power III)       Electrification             March 29, 1977           Completed
(9.0)                                               (8.12)
Credit 691 (Power Ill)      Electrification             March 29, 1977           Completed
(interest only)
Loan 2670 (Wood Energy 11)  Traditional Fuel            July 10, 1986            Canceled (15.92) and
(16.7)                                              transfeffed to Energy I
Credit 178 (Tedzani I)      Electrification             January 1, 1970          Completed
(6.09)                                              (interest only)
Credit 426 (Tedzani 11)     Electrification             September 4, 1973        Completed
l _________________________  (7.50)                                              (interest only)
Credit 992 (Wood Energy)    Traditional Fuel            March 13, 1980           Completed
(13.80)
Credit 1990 (Energy I)      Electricity and Wood Energy  March 14, 1989          Completed, Subject of
(46.70)                                             this ICR
Credit 2386-MAI (Power V)   Power and sector studies    June 17, 1992           In progress, after
(55.0)                                              effectiveness on
12/23/1993.



- 24 -
Table 3: Project Time Table
Steps in Project Cycle                    Date Planned                        Date Actual
Identification                                                              May 19. 1988
(Executive Project Summary)                                                                                  l
Preparation                                                                 March 5-March 23, 1988
Appraisal                               June 1988                           June 6 -29 & July 5-15, 1988
Negotiations                            Mid-November, 1988                  January 17-25, 1989
Letter of Development Policy            Not Applicable                      Not Applicable
Board Presentation                      February 2, 1989                    March 14, 1989
Signing                                                                     August 30, 1989
Effectiveness                           November 28, 1989                   February 6, 1990
Project Completion                      June 30, 1994                       December 31, 1995
Loan Closing                            December 31, 1994                   February 28, 1996
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimates and Actuals
(in million US Dollars)
Cumulative           FY89      FY90    FY91        FY92      FY93      FY94    FY95         FY96
Disbursements
Appraisal Estimate           1.50      9.00     13.40     24.20     37.80     46.70       -         -
Actual                       0.00      4.80     11.58     15.30     27.25    33.007    41.99      49.14
Actual as % of Estimate      0.00      53.3      86.4      63.2     72.1       70.7     89.9       105.2
Date of Final Disbursement                                                                       3/18/96
MwInl                                   -.    it. s               on
1 ) March 18, 1996 was the date of final disbursement. The Credit was closed on February 28, 1996.



- 25 -
Table 5A: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR                      Estimated                   Actual
1. Key Implementation Dates Tedzani III::
*   Bid opening for:
*   Engineering                                    7/1989                    4/1990
*   Civil Works                                    3/1991                     2/1992
*   Turbines, Generators                           3/1991                    9/1991
*   Electrical (Substation etc.)                   5/1992                     4/1992
*   Contract Award for:
*   Engineering                                    8/1989                    10/1990
*   Civil Works                                    5/1991                    11/1992
*   Turbines, Generators                           5/1991                     6/1992
*   Electrical (Substations etc.)                  7/1992                    11/1992
Project Completion                                        6/30/1994                 12/15/1995
Closing Date                                              12/31/1994                 2/28/1996
2. Internal Cash Generation in %:
FY 1989/90                                30                         57
FY 1990/91                                30                         43
FY 1991/92                                30                         26
FY 1992/93                                30                         24
FY 1993/94                                30                         17
FY 1994/95                                30                         2
FY 1995/96                                30                      negative
3. Debt service coverage:
FY 1989/90                                1.8                       2.0
FY 1990/91                                2.1                       2.0
FY 1991/92                                2.1                       2.5
FY 1992/93                                2.4                        1.8
FY 1993/94                                2.0                        1.8
FY 1994/95                                1.8                        1.0
FY 1995/96                                                           1.0
4. Rate of Return on:
historical basis (revalued basis)
FY 1989/90                                                          14.5
FY 1990/91                                                          14.8
FY 1991/92                                                        17.5 (2.4)
FY 1992/93                                                        14.2 (1.1)
FY 1993/94                                                       11.8 (-1.3)
FY 1994/95                                                        7.4 (-3.4)
FY 1995/96                                                        17.4 (0.1)
5. Audited accounts due by:                       July 31 for Power          Occasionally up to a month
December 31 for Wood      delay for Power and 3
Energy                    months for Wood Energy
6. Accounts receivables for:
FY 1989/90                                60                         69
FY 1990/91                                60                         66
FY 1991/92                                60                         72
FY 1992/93                                60                         61
FY 1993/94                                60                         80
FY 1994/95                                60                         85
FY 1995/96                                60                         61



-26 -
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR                         Estimated                    Actual
7. Generation in Gwh for:
FY 1989/90                                 688.1                      633.90
FY 1990/91                                 743.9                      707.08
FY 1991/92                                 782.3                      772.80
FY 1992/93                                 822.8                      784.70
FY 1993/94                                 890.8                      801.99
FY 1994/95                                 971.3                      850.29
FY 1995/96                                1045.5                      859.00
8. Sales in GWh (and losses in %)
FY 1989/90                             573.13 (16.2)               657.00 (16.9)
FY 1990/91                             621.81 (15.9)               600.00 (15.0)
FY 1991/92                             659.37 (15.2)               651.00 (!5.6)
FY 1992/93                             699.21 (14.5)               657.00(15.4)
FY 1993/94                             764.04.(13.7)               704.00 (14.6)
FY 1994/95                             839.93.(13.0)               732.45 (13.9)
FY 1995/96                             923.03 (13.0)               758.00 (13.9)
9. Max. demand (MW)and (load factor, %)
FY 1989/90                             122.30 (63.3)               114.00 (63.5)
FY 1990/91                             133.40 (63.0)               119.40 (67.6)
FY 1991/92                             134.60 (65.4)               137.80 (66.1)
FY 1992/93                             146.30 (63.1)               138.70 (64.7)
FY 1993/94                             158.10 (63.1)               140.20 (65.3)
FY 1994/95                             172.30 (62.9)               145.40 (66.9)
FY 1995/96                             190.60 (62.6)               149.10 (65.8)
10. Interruptions: Per 100 km/month for 66
and 132kV & (per 100 customers/month
for distribution):
FY 1992/93                                                        1.3, 0.44 (31)
FY 1993/94                                                        L16, 0.57, (36)
FY 1994/95                                                        14.4, 0.67, (41)
FY 1995/96
11. Average Tariff - ttkWh (USc/kWh):
FY1989/90                               12.73 (4.13)                11.61 (4.20)
FY.1990/91                                 13.60                    12.59(4.39)
FY.1991/92                              14.70 (3.90)                13.77 (4.25)
FY 1992/93                                 16.43                    17.39 (4.29)
FY 1993/94                                 18.90                   21.07 (4.34)
FY 1994/95                              21.70 (5.20)                29.68 (2.47)
FY. 1995/96                                                        48.16 (3.12)
12. Average IC t/kWh (USc/kWh):
May 1992                               15.40 (5.40)                19.80 (4.60)
Nov. 1992                                                          23.40 (5.10)
Dec. 1993                                                          26.20 (3.70)
Jul. 1993                                                         40.80 (2.70)
Jan. 1995                                                         50.50 (3.30)
Jul. 1995
13.No. of customers (Customers/employee):
FY 1989/90                             43,700 (20.8)               39,504 (18.5)
FY 1990/91                             46,800 (22.3)               43,339 (19.8)
FY 1991/92                             50,100 (23.9)               46,505 (20.7)
FY 1992/93                             53,600 (25.5)               51,000 (21.5)



- 27 -
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR                    Estimated                   Actual
FY 1993/94                           57,300 (27.0)            53,141 (22.0)
FY 1994/95                           61,300 (28.9)            57,270 (23.0)
FY 1995/96
14. Exchange Rates -
FY !989/90                              2.75                      2.77
FY 1991/91                              2.72                      2.87
FY 1991/92                              2.92                      3.24
FY 1882/93                              3.79                      4.05
FY. 1993/94                              3.92                     4.85
FY 1994/95                              4.06                      12.01
FY 1995/96                              4.06                      15.45
15. GDP Growth rate (%):
FY 1989/90                               4.3                       1.3
FY. 1990/91                              4.6                       8.3
FY 1991/92                               4.9                       8.7
FY 1992/93                               5.1                      -7.3
FY 1993/94                               5.1                       9.7
FY 1994/95                               5.1                     -10.7
FY 1995/96                                                         9.5
16. Power investment as percent of GDP                                              3.56
17. Debt repayment as percent of GDP                                                 0.48



- 28 -
Table 511: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Wood Energy)
(Wood Energy Component)
Activity                 Unit        SAR Target       Revised       Achievement   Achievement as %
l_____________________________ ____________ _____________          Target                           of Target
Mulanje Plantations              ha                 4,050           2,810           2,810              100
Fire Towers                      No.                  3               2              2                 100
Plantation Roads                 Km                   85             80              70                88
Nurseries Establishment          No                   60             60              72                120
Nurseries Upgrading              No.                  30             30              20                67
Wood Energy Nursery Seeding      Million             49.8           44.0            40.7               82
Production
Wood Energy Seeding Sales        Million             49.8           44.0            21.4               49
Farmer /Institution Seedling     Million              3.8            3.8            30.4               800
Production
Smallholder & Institution Planting    ha            17150           17150           13546              79
Established Pilot Extent. Units  No.                  10             10              10                100
Farmer Training                  No of Farmers        0             9540           12400               124
Incentive Bonus Woodlots         Million             43.0           31.0            19.2               62
Nursery Demo Woodlots            No.                 252             252             194               76
Farmer Demo Woodlots             No.                 466             466            537                115
Revenue Collection               Mk million           43             43              4.8               11
Established ACUs                 No.                  54             54              54                100
Map & Biomass Assessment         Consultancy          0               1               1
MCF Courses                      No.                 1985           1985            296                27
M & E Nursery Cost               Study                0               1               1                100
M & E Seedling Survival          Study                0               1               I                100
Four-wheel drives, procurement   No.                  3               3              3                 100
Seven-tonnes trucks              No.                  4               4              4                 100
Bicycles                         No.                  30             30              30                100



- 29 -
Table 7: Studies included in the Project
Study                 Purpose as defined at                Status                  Impact of Study
Appraisal
1. Asset Revaluation Studies    Determination of reinstatement  Completed and in operation   ESCOM is now able to
values of ESCOM's assets, and                             calculate annually, with its
establishing basis for annual                             audited accounts, rate of return
revaluation of assets.                                    on revalued asset
basis.
2. Electricity Tariff Study  Determining the tariff structure   Completed and has been in    The objective was gradual
and rates using average       use for the basic tariff    attainment of economic cost of
incremental cost of power     structures since late !992.  supply, which objective was
supply. Assessing also peak                               crippled by the fast depreciation
and off peak, time of day tariff                          and eventual floatation of the
rates and seasonal surplus                                Kwacha early in 1994
energy rates, and connection
fees.
3. Transmission and          Coping with future power       Completed                   The Study's useful outputs
Distribution Study           demand and improving                                      include loss reduction and
system's reliability and                                 reliability improvement of the
efficiency.                                               lines supplying Lilongwe. it has
also established the means of
carrying out similar studies
using ESCOM's own staff...
4. Energy Pricing Study      To ensure that as a policy     Completed                   The study is proving to be a
energy prices signal economic                             useful tool to Government in
cost of supply.                                           setting energy pricing policy.



- 30 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
(in million US dollars)
Component                               Appraisal Estimate                 Actual Cost Estimate to Completion
Local       Foreign        Total        Local        Foreign         Total
Power Component:
A. Tedzani IIl
- Civil Works                 8.49          15.23        23.72         5.74         30.81          36.65
- Electromechanical           1.03          17.70        18.73         0.05         26.38          26.43
- Line & Substation           1.99          9.94         11.93         0.10          5.72           5.82
- Engineering                 0.74          4.66          5.40         0.00          7.89           7.89
Sub-total Tedzani III            12.25        47.53         59.76         5.89         70.81          76.70
B. Generation Rehabilitation:    0.02          1.47          1.49         0.00          1.26           1.26
C. Institutional Strengthening   0.00          0.60         0.60          0.00          0.55           0.55
Total Power Component:
( Parts A, B, and C of Project)  12.2         49.M         6fL7           5            72.61          7m5
In percentage terms               100          100           100           48          146.4          126.9
Energy Components:
D. Charcoal Production           0.10          1.00          1.10         0.00          1.00           1.00
E. Wood Energy                   6.02          8.86         14.88         0.05         13.33          13.38
F. Energy Pricing Study          0.00          0.50          0.50         0.00          0.55           0.55
Sub-total (Parts D,E,F)           ±12          IL36         1.05 gmA88                                14.3
In percentage terms               100          100           100          0.82         143.6          86.7
Total Energy I Project           1832           .           78.3S           4          87.49          23.43
In percentage terms              100           100           100          32.3         145.9          119.2



- 31 -
Table 8B: Project Financing Plan, in million US dollars
Appraisal Estimate                                Actual
Source           Local         Foreign         Total         Local         Foreign         Total
IDA                   4.40           42.30         46.70                         49.00          49.00
Austria               0.00           17.60          17.60                        26.38          26.38
PTA                     -      -                     --             --            8.40           8.40
ESCOM                 12.28                         12.28          5.89           3.71           9.61
Govemment              1.72            -            1.72           0.05            --            0.05
Total           18.40          69.90    |    78.30           5.94           87.49         93.43
N.B. The local cost does not include interest during implementation.



- 32 -
Table 9: Economic Costs And Benefits
The Power Component (Table 9A)
The investment costs of the Power Component are actual payments made by ESCOM
in each year. The foreign exchange payments were converted to equivalent Kwacha at
exchange rates prevailing on the transaction dates, and provide retention moneys due to some
contracts. A percentage of the transmission and distribution investment during the Project's
implementation period is included in the project cost stream, on the grounds that part of the
said investment will be needed to distribute reliably and efficiently Tedzani III's additional
capacity. A proportion of Tedzani Ill's capacity (50MW) to total system capacity (194MW,
including Tedzani III) has been used in determining this percentage. The investment costs
are expressed in constant 1990 prices.
The incremental benefits accrue in the main from the 50 MW additional capacity
provided by Tedzani III. A more rigorous planning for the operation of the cascaded group
of the upstream Nkula and the downstream Tedzani group of power plants reveals that
Tedzani III's incremental energy output would be 17OGWh annually rather than the
234GWh assumed at appraisal which was based more on an average rather than the firm flow
of the Shire river. The energy benefits are valued at the conservative figure of 62.5 tambala
per kWh (US cents 4.2/kWh) which is the minimum ESCOM needs to charge to comply with
its 1996 financial requirements. Costs for operation and maintenance, and interim
replacements (extraordinary maintenance of major plant and equipment), are estimated at
1.5% of total investment, at 1990 constant prices. Based on these assumptions, the economic
rate of return (ERR) for the Power Component is conservatively estimated to be 5%. This is
much lower than the SAR's estimate of 11% for two main reasons. The first is due to the
lower value of the incremental energy, 17OGWh compared to 234GWh. The second is the
fact that electricity tariffs did not keep pace with the devaluation of the Kwacha, and the
average tariff is far below the average incremental cost (AIC) of power supply, estimated at
US cents 5.4/kWh or 81 tambala/kWh, equivalent to 29 tambalalkWh at 1990 prices (paras.
25, 28). Increasing the incremental energy benefit to 234GWh increases the ERR to 8%, a
difference of 3% from the basic figure of 5%. Applying the AIC value of 29 tambala/kWh
will increase the ERR to 7%, a further increase of 2%. Project cost increases (para. 18)
would also contribute to the decrease. A major claim by an electrical contractor has not yet
been resolved, and no provision is made for this claim in Tedzani III costs. However, the
face value of the claim (MKI49 million additional at 1996 prices), will reduce the ERR from
5% to 4%. Increasing the Project's lifetime to 35 years from 25 years increases the
economic rate of return of the Power Component by 1%.
Charcoal Component
The charcoal subcomponent was aimed at displacing hardwood charcoal by softwood
charcoal produced from the thinnings of the Viphya forest in a sustainable manner, and at
introducing policy reforms to encourage private sector participation in its production and
marketing. The key quantifiable benefits of this component was the revenue to be collected
from that sale of softwood charcoal. Based on the efficiency of the charcoal kilns designed



- 33 -
for the pilot production scheme, and the interest shown by the tobacco estate farms, sugar
plantations and some industries, sales of charcoal were expected to be in the neighborhood of
about 11,000 tons annually including provision for households. On that basis, the ex-ante
rate of return was estimated at about 18%.
This Component was implemented under a Project Preparation Facility, which was
closed at the effectiveness of the Project. As a result, data on sales were not collected
systematically and hence it is not possible to estimate the ex-post rate of return for this
Component. However, the potential benefit is likely to be high and future operations should
follow up and put to effective use the recommendations which resulted from the pilot
schemes (para.60).
Wood Energy Component (Table 9B with Sub-Tables)
The Wood Energy component's benefits were to have been derived from the
establishment of some 17,000 ha of smallholder woodlots and 2,750 ha of Government
plantations, between them producing 212,000 m3 of wood.
Total wood production by smallholders is expected to be 150,000 m3 out of which
40% is estimated to be for fuelwood (para. 39). Mulanje's Govemment plantation of 2,800
ha, completed under the Project, is expected to reach gradually an annual yield of 90,000 m3
(solid wood I1 0,000m3). Thus between smaliholder and Govemment plantations the annual
yield will in time be more than the SAR estimate. This presupposes that Govemment will
earmark funds to meet the operational requirements of the Mulanje plantations where wood
harvesting has already begun, and sustaining the policy initiatives which were espoused in
the project, such as increasing the stumpage fees to cost recovery to encourage smallholder
tree plantations and the private sector. Commercialization of the Mulanje wood plantations
is a policy measure which will increase the benefits from the Mulanje plantations. The
economic value of wood harvested is assessed on the basis of the value of maize production
foregone by cutting of indigenous wood being substituted by wood from the plantations.
Table 9B and 9C for a typical one hectare model shows an economic rate of return of
21% and an internal rate of return of 14%, comparing favorably with the SAR's estimate of
19.5% and 14% respectively. Government's Mulanje plantation's economic rate of return is
expected to be near enough the SAR's estimate of 14%. Conservation measures (initiated
prior to and partly supported by this Project) in the form of efficient charcoal kiln and
cooking stoves for households, with savings between 30% to 50%, have enormous benefits
to the environment.



- 34 -
Table 9A: Economic Costs and Benefits - Power Component
Year     Local      Tedzani III   Total       T & D (1)        Total       Deflatio   Cost at  0.015     Total       Incremental   Value of   Net
min. MK   Cost Foreign   min. MK    Local/Foreign   Cost min    n           1990     O & M    Cost min.  Energy Gwh   Energy at  Benefits
min. MK       Tedzani    min. MK          MK          factor    min.      cost c3    MK                       0.22        min. MIK
MK       0.015
Local Foreign
1990        0.39          3.7         4.09      0.50   2.47       7.06        1        7.06                 7.06                               -7.06
1991        3.18          2.44        5.62      1.0    9.91      16.53        1.14    14.50                14.50                               -14.50
1992        8.99        116.95       125.94     2.5   22.58     151.02        1.34   112.70               112.70                               -112.70
1993        8.96         75.84       84.8       2.4   21.62     108.82        1.65    65.95                65.95                               -65.95
1994       21.88        180.49      202.37      1.0    9.02    212.39         2.33    91.15                91.15                               -91.15
1995       34.76        162.69       197.45     1.0    9.81    208.26         2.56    81.35                81.35                               -81.35
1996         1           77.62       78.62      0.5    5.68      84.8         2.79    30.39                30.39          50        11.20      -19.19
1997                                                                       Total     403.11      6.05       6.05         130       29.12       23.08
1998                                                                                             6.05       6.05         170       38.08       32.04
1999                                                                                             6.05       6.05         170       38.08       32.04
2000                                                                                             6.05       6.05          170       38.08      32.04
2001                                                                                             6.05       6.05          170       38.08      85.87
2002                                                                                             6.05       6.05          170       38.08      32.04
2003                                                                                             6.05       6.05          170       38.08      32.04
2004                                                                                             6.05       6.05          170       38.08      32.04
2005                                                                                             6.05       6.05          170       38.08      32.04
2006                                                                                             6.05       6.05          170       38.08      32.04
2007                                                                                             6.05        6.05         170       38.08       32.04
2008                                                                                             6.05        6.05         170       38.08       32.04
2009                                                                                             6.05       6.05          170       38.08       32.04
2010                                                                                             6.05        6.05         170       38.08       32.04
2011                                                                                             6.05        6.05         170       38.08       32.04
2012                                                                                             6.05        6.05         170       38.08       32.04
2013                                                                                             6.05        6.05         170       38.08       32.04
2014                                                                                             6.05        6.05         170       38.08       32.04
2015                                                                                             6.05        6.05         170       38.08       32.04
2016                                                                                             6.05        6.05         170       38.08       32.04
2017                                                                                             6.05        6.05         170       38.08       32.04
2018                                                                                             6.05        6.05         170       38.08       32.04
2019                                                                                             6.05        6.05         170       38.08       32.04
2020                                                                                             6.05        6.05         170       38.08       32.04
2021                                                                                             6.05        6.05         170       93.42       32.04



-35 -
Year      Local        Tedzani III    Total         T & D (1)         Total        Deflatio    Cost at   0.015       Total        Incremental    Value of    Net
min. MK    Cost Foreign   min. MK    Local/Foreign    Cost min    n                 1990       O & M      Cost min.  Energy Gwh    Energy at  Benefits
min. MK        Tedzani    min. MK             MK            factor     min.       cost @     MK                            0.22         min. MK
MK        0.015
Local Foreign
2022                                                                                                        0.00        0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00
2023                                                                                                        0.00        0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00
2024                                                                                                        0.00        0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00
2025                                                                                                        0.00        0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00
2026                                                                                                        0.00        0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00
2027                                                                                                        0.00        0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00
2028                                                                                                        0.00        0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00
2029                                                                                                        0.00        0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00
2030                                                                                                        0.00        0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00
2031                                                                                                        0.00        0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00
ERR                      .             5%
Remarks
- Tedzani 111 investments up to 1995 are actual; 1996 is estimate based on anticipated payments for retention monies. Transmission and Distribution (T & D)
investment is a proportion of Tcdzani capacity to total generation capacity, i.e. 26% of total T & D investment. Project lifetime is assumed to 25 years (existing dam is
23 years)
- 0 & M is assumed at 1.500% of total investment cost, and provides for possible interim replacements.
- Incremental energy is assessed on the basis of efficient water use by the cascaded group of Nkula and Tedzani power plants, and 90% availability factor. Value of
incremental enetgy is based on the expected 1996 average price of 62.5 tambala/kWh or 22 tambala/kWh at 1990 prices.
- The ERR of 5% increases to 6% for 35 year lifetime, and to 7% and 8% for AIC of supply of 81 tambala kWh (equivalent to 29 tlkWh at 1990 prices) and for 234
Gwh energy benefit per SAR, respectively.



- 36 -
Table 9B: EconomkC Costs and Benefits - Wood Energy
Table A: Economic Analysis for Mulanje GOVat Plantations (2,800 ba)
(MK '000)
Year          Costs      Area Planted   Area Harvested   Volume Harvested    Benefits   Net Benefits
(MK'000)         (ha)             (ha)           [m3 (solid))      (MK'000)
I (1986/87)       1.0            39                                                               .1.0
2 (87/88)       452.9           512                                                             -452.9
3 (88/89)       721.9           499                                                             -721.9
4 (89/90)       784.0           514                                                             -784.0
5 (90/91)       792.0           706                                                             -792.0
7 (92/93)      1,589.0          44                                                              -1589.0
8 (93/94)      1,175.0                           27                6615             165.4       -1009.6
9 (94/95)      1,230.0                           50                12,190           304.8       -925.3
10 (95/96)      154.6                            75                18,000           450.0        295.4
11 (96/97)      129.2                            90                24,300           607.5        478.3
12 (97/98)      1,633.0                          150               48,000           1200.0       -433.0
13 (98/99)      1,689.0                          200               60,000           1500.0       -189.0
14 (99/2000)     1,720.0                          300               83,000          2075.0        355.0
15 (2000/01)     256.0                            400               110,000         2750.0        2494.0
16 (01/02)      296.0                            500              139,000          3475.0        3179.0
17 (02/03)      318.5                            540               152,500         3812.5        3494.0
18 (03/04)      326.5                            550               153,500         3837.5        3511.0
19 (04/05)      339.5                            600              125,500          3137.5        2798.0
20 (05106)      345.5                            600               114,000         2850.0        2504.5
21 (06/07)      345.5                            600               112,000         2800.0        2454.5
22           345.5                           600               111,000          2775.0       2429.5
23           345.5                           600               110,000          2750.0       2404.5
24           345.5                           600               110,000          2750.0       2404.5
25           345.5                           600               110,000          2750.0       2404.5
26           345.5                           600               110,000          2750.0       2404.5
27           345.5                           600               110,000          2750.0       2404.5
28           345.5                           600               110,000          2750.0       2404.5
29           345.5                           600               110,000          2750.0       2404.5
30           345.5                           600               110,000          2750.0       2404.5
Total                         2314                              2149605
ERR -         14%
Note i:    as bunt ara replanted so not included in total
Note 2:    f eadlierplantigp and are at an increued wage rafe from eadieryears, as ame later costs
Note 3:   road rehabilitation is undertaken in yean 1997/98 throught 1999/2000
Note 4:    ecording to National Sample Survey of Alpicultural 195Ml) by cutting of indigenous wood for which plantation wood
digenousa forest cut affect I ha agricultwra land. Refer W.E. 11 SAR Annex 2, Table 16



- 37 -
Table 9B: Economic Costs and Benefits - Wood Energy
Table B: Finacial Analysis for Mulmaje Govnt Plantations (2,800 ha)
(MK '000)
Year    Costs         Area Planted   Area Harvested  Volume Harvested    Benefits   Net Benefits
(MK'000)          (ha)            (ha)          (m3 (solid))    (MK'000)
1 (1986/87)           1.0           39                                                          -1.0
2 (87/88)         452.9            512                                                       -452.9
3 (88/89)          721.9          499                                                        -721.9
4 (89/90)          784.0           514                                                       -784.0
5 (90/91)         792.0            706                                                       -792.0
7 (92/93)        1,589.0            44                                                      -1589.0
8 (93/94)        1,175.0                            27                6615      165.4       -1009.6
9 (94/95)        1,230.0                            50               12,190     304.8        -925.3
10 (95/96)         154.6                            75               18,000     450.0         295.4
11 (96/97)         129.2                            90               24,300     607.5         478.3
12 (97/98)        1,633.0                          150               48,000     1200.0       -433.0
13 (98/99)        1,689.0                          200               60,000     1500.0       -189.0
14 (99/2000)       1,720.0                          300               83,000    2075.0         355.0
15 (2000/01)        256.0                           400              110,000    2750.0        2494.0
16 (01/02)         296.0                           500              139,000    3475.0        3179.0
17 (02/03)         318.5                           540              152,500    3812.5        3494.0
18 (03/04)         326.5                           550              153,500    3837.5        3511.0
19 (04/05)         339.5                           600              125,500    3137.5        2798.0
20 (05/06)         345.5                           600              114,000     2850.0       2504.5
21 (06/07)         345.5                           600              112,000     2800.0       2454.5
22              345.5                           600              111,000    2775.0        2429.5
23              345.5                           600              110,000    2750.0        2404.5
24              345.5                           600              110,000    2750.0        2404.5
25              345.5                           600              110,000    2750.0        2404.5
26              345.5                           600              110,000    2750.0        2404.5
27              345.5                           600              110,000    2750.0        2404.5
28              345.5                           600              110,000    2750.0        2404.5
29              345.5                           600              110,000    2750.0        2404.5
30              345.5                           600              110,000    2750.0        2404.5
Total                           2314                             2149605
IRR  =             14%
Note 1:   44 ha planted in 1992/93 was bumt area replanted
Note 2:   Expenses incurred in years 7 to 9 include weeding and protection of earlier plantings
and are at an increased wage rate from earlier years.
Note 3:   In order to achieve harvesting targets contracted road rehabilitation is undertaken
in years 1997/98 through 199912000.
Note 4:   Economic value of wood harvested based on value of maize production foregone (10%) per annum)
by cutting of indigenous wood for which plantation wood will substitute.



- 38 -
Table 98: Economic Costs and Benefits - Wood Energy
Table C: One Hectere Model for Smaihbolder Woodlot: Costs and Benefib for Farmer
(MK)
Year     Cost of labour   Cost of Materials    Total Costs   Wood Production          Fwd for Sale    Poles for Sale        Benefits   Net Benefits
(MK)             (MiC)             (MK)               (m3)                 (r3)               (Number)         (MK)
1 (1986/87)             399               400               799                                                                                    -799
2 (87/88)               90                  0               90                                                                                      -90
3 (88/89)               45                  0               45                    0                                                                 -45
4 (89/90)                0                  0                0                    0                    0                                              0
5 (90/91)                0                  0                0                    0                    0                                              0
6 (91/92)               84                 45              129                   20                    2                   60        320            191
7 (92/93)               57                  0               57                   12                    1                  30         168            111
8 (93/94)               57                  0               57                   14                    1                   30        176            119
9 (94/95)               63                 45              108                   16                    2                   30        184             76
10 (95/96)              45                  0               45                   10                    1                   30        160            115
11 (96/97)              51                  0               51                   12                    1                   30        168            117
12 (97/98)              51                 45               96                   12                    4                   90        504            408
13 (98/99)              51                  0               51                   12                    4                   90        504            453
14 (99/2000)             51                  0               51                   12                    4                   90        504            453
15 (2000/01)             51                 45               96                   12                    4                   90        504            408
16 (01/02)              51                  0               51                   12                    4                   90        504            453
17 (02/03)              51                  0               51                   12                    4                   90        504            453
18 (03/04)              51                 45               96                   12                    4                   90        504            408
19 (04/05)              51                  0               51                   12                    4                   90        504            453
20 (05/06)              42                  0               42                    12                   4                   90        504            462
Total               1341                625             1966                  192                   41                 1020       5712
IIRR                 14%1o
Notel:    Harvesting is assumed to occur on part of the area annually with growth rates of l0m3/hs/yr of seedling rotation and 12m3/hatyr for coppice rotation.
Note 2:   Assume sell 30ff fwd, & 45% poles as from year 12 on basis that market knowledge and access improve.
Earier 10% fwd and 15% poles sold, rest subsistence at no value
Note3:    Opportunity cost of labour is valued at 50% of an estate wage of 6 Kwacha



- 39 -
TABLE 9B: Economic Costs and Benefits - Wood Energy
Table D: One Hectare Model for Snmallholder Woodlot: Costs and Benefits for Fanner
(NK)
Year    Cost of labour   Cost of Mateials    Total Costs   Wood Production          Fwd for Sale   Poles for Sale    subsistence Fwd     Benefits   Net Benefits
(MK)             (MK)              (MK)               (m3)               (m3)            (Number)            (m3)            (MK)
1 (1986/87)            798                400             1198                                                                                                  -1198
2 (87/88)              180                 0               180                                                                                                  -180
3 (88/89)               90                 0               90                    0                                                                               -90
4 (89/90)                0                 0                0                    0                 0                                                               0
5 (90/91)                0                 0                0                    0                 0                                                               0
6 (91/92)              168                45              213                   20                 2               60                   15       1220           1007
7 (92/93)              114                 0              114                   12                  1              30                    9        708            594
8 (93/94)              114                 0              114                   14                  1              30                   11        806            692
9 (94/95)              126                45               171                  16                 2               30                   12        904            733
10 (95/96)              90                  0               90                   10                 1               30                    8       610            520
11 (96/97)             102                  0              102                   12                 1               30                   9         708           606
12 (97/98)             102                 45              147                   12                 4               90                    3       684            537
13 (98/99)             102                  0              102                   12                 4               90                    3       684            582
14 (99/2000)            102                  0              102                   12                 4               90                    3        684           582
15 (2000/01)            102                 45              147                   12                 4               90                    3        684           537
16 (01/02)             102                  0              102                   12                 4               90                    3        684           582
17 (02/03)             102                  0              102                   12                 4               90                    3        684           582
18 (03/04)             102                 45              147                   12                 4               90                    3        684           537
19 (04/05)             102                  0              102                   12                 4               90                    3        684           582
20 (05/06)              84                  0               84                   12                 4               90                    3        684            600
Total               2682                625             3307                  192                41             1020                  144      11112
ERR=                 21
Note 1:   Harvesting is assumed to occur on part of the ae annually with growth rates of lOm31ha/yr of seedling rotation and 12m3/ha/yr for coppice rotation.
Note 2:   Assume sell 30% fwd, & 45% poles as from year 12 on basis that market knowledge and access improve.
EarierlO%fwd andl5%polesthatsubsistencevalued tMK60/m3oncostofcollectingfimelwood.  l0abourdaystocollectIm3.
Note 3:   Opporunity cost of labour is valued at 50%h of an estate wage of 6 Kwacha



- 40 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Section    Covenant    Present         Original          Revised            Description of Covenant
Type       Status      Fulfillment Date   Fulfillment Date
Comments
Credit 1990    3.01 (c)   3          C                                               The Borrower shall relend to ESCOM    Complied with.
an amount of US$31.9 million under a
subsidiary loan agreement.
Credit 1990    3.05     2            C                                               The Borrower to consult with IDA and  Complied with all
ESCOM annually on ESCOM's        through the
investment program, and not cause  implementation period.
ESCOM to undertake investment in
excess of US$5 million outside the
program.
Credit 1990    3.06     2            CD          12/31/1989         6/1990           The Borrower to conclude or cause  Based on French
ESCOM to conclude by not later than   Protocol with the
12/31/1989 a financing arrangement    Borrower, ESCOM
for the 132kV Nkula-Lilongwe      concluded a contract
transmission line.                with a French
contractor in June
1990, and the line was
commissioned in April
1993.
Credit 1990    3.07      13          C                                               The Borrower to continue to maintain   Complied with by
a qualified and experienced       eventually assigning a
coordinator at Forestry Department  dedicated project
(for the Wood Energy component).  manager.
Credit 1990    3.08     12,13        C                                               The Borrower to increase regularly the  An increase was made
royalty per cubic meter of wood to  in August 1988 in
arrive to least cost recovery by not  compliance with a
later than 12/31/1994 (the original  previous covenant.
closing date of the Credit)       Under this Credit, the
____________  ________  __________                               _______________   ______________________________    last  gazetting     for  cost



- 41 -
Agreement    Section    Covenant    Present          Original          Revised            Description of Covenant
Type        Status     Fulfillment Date   Fulfillment Date
Comments
increase was January
1994.Has not complied
by the revised closing
date of February 28,
1996.
Credit 1990    3.09      9           C                                                The Borrower to pay five tambala (to    Complied with.
private farmers) per tree to which shall
have survived two years after planting.
Credit 1990    3.10      1           CD                                               The Borrower to furnish to the     Generally complied
Association audited accounts for all    with, but with some
components other than power as soon   delay and one time
as available but not later than nine  after notification of
months after the end of each fiscal  possible suspension.
year.
Project       3.04       13          C                                                ESCOM to appoint a project manager   Complied with.
Agreement                                                                             for the power component of the
1990                                                                                  Project, with qualifications and
(ESCOM)                                                                               experience satisfactory to the
Association.
Project       4.01       1                                                            ESCOM to furnish audited accounts    Complied with for most
Agreement                                                                             not later than four months after the  of the years. There was
1990                                                                                  end of each fiscal year.           one delay following the
(ESCOM)                                                                                                                  organizational change
brought about by the
democratic elections,
until appointment of
new Board members.
Project       4.02       2           C                                                ESCOM to review its investment     Complied with.
Agreement                                                                             program with the Borrower and IDA
1990                                                                                  annually, and not to undertake
(ESCOM)                                                                               investment in excess of US$5 million



- 42 -
Agreement    Section    Covenant    Present          Original          Revised            Description of Covenant
Type        Status     Fulfillment Date   Fulfillment Date
Comments
outside the program.
Project       4.03       2           NC                                               ESCOM to produce from intemal      The fiscal year changed
Agreement                                                                             sources not less than 30°/O of the  to end March 31
1990                                                                                  annual average of its of its capital  effective March 31,
(ESCOM)                                                                               expenditure after fiscal year 12/31/88.   1990. Complied with
only in FY90 and 91.
Deteriorating from 26
to 2 during Fys 92
________               __________                                                                          through  95.
Project       4.04       2                                                            ESCOM's net revenue to be at least    Complied with except
Agreement                                                                             1.5 times the estimated requirements   for FY1995.
1990                                                                                  on all debt.
(ESCOM)
Project       4.05       1           C                                                ESCOM to furnish to the Association    Complied with and,
Agreement                                                                             recommendations on assets          after some initial
1990                                                                                  revaluation study, and revalue its  difficulties in the
assets by not later than March 31,  application of the
1991.                             software, is annually
revaluing its assets.
Project       4.06       2                                                            ESCOM to ensure the level of       Did not comply except
Agreement                                                                             ESCOM's accounts receivables shall   for one year (at 61
1990                                                                                  not exceed the equivalent of sixty days  days).
(ESCOM)                                                                               of ESCOM's sales revenue in
preceding twelve months.
Status: C - Complied with       CD - Compliance after delay              NC - Not complied with



- 43 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Sftp of project               Planned                      RvsdAta
cyck le_ _ ,ned
Weeks         USS           Weeks           USS           Weeks           US$
Through appraisal                                                                      105.8        208501
Appraisal-Board                                                                         12.5         25861
Board-effectiveness
Supervision                                                                            168.1        379051
Completion                                                                               5.7         11395
Total                                                                         292.1        444808



- 44 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating             Types
Status of      Month/       Number    Days in       Specialized     Implemen         - Developm-            of
project cycle     Year          of        field       staff skills    tation          = ent               Problems
Persons                                 status           = Objective
Through         July 1988 to      18         27     -Foresters         Completed         Not Applicable
appraisal
August 88                          -Economists                          (NA)
-Power Engineer
-Financial
Analyst
Appraisal        September        3          0      -Economist         Completed         NA
through Board    88 to March
approval         1989                               -Financial
Analyst
-Forester
-Power Engineer
Board approval   March 1989       1          S      -Power Engineer    Follow up on                      Effectiveness
through         to February                                            effectiveness                     conditions were
cffectiveness    1990                               (Task Manager)                                       delayed
Supervision     February         27         133    -Power Engineer    9 Form S90s give  9 Form 590s      Procurement
1990 to                                               rating of 2 in 8  give rating of I   delays also
January                            -Forester          cases and I for    in 4 cases and 2   delayed project.
1996                                                  the rest. Hence    for the        Financing cost
-Financial Analyst  satisfactory.   difference.     increases in the
Hence          latter half.
-Economist                          satisfactory
ICR mission     February          2          12     -Power Engineer
1996
-Forester



- 45 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
APPENDIX A
ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE






I
AIDE MEMOIRE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
MALAWI: ENERGY I PROJECT
CREDIT 1990-MAI
Introduction
1.    An ICR mission, comprising Messrs. Paul Ryan (Forestry Specialist) and Assefa
Telahun (Power Engineer) visited Malawi from February 20 to February 28, 1996 to initiate the
World Bank's preparation of the ICR for the Energy I project, the former dealing with the Wood
Energy component and the latter with the Power component of the project. Mr. Paul Ryan's
mission wound up on February 27, 1996 with a wrap up meeting at the Ministry of Forestry and
Natural Resources. Mr. Telahun's mission was launched on February 23 and ended on February
28 with a wrap up meeting at ESCOM's headquarters in Blantyre. Members of the mission
visited respective project implementation sites, to overview status of project completion.
2.    The cofinanciers for the Power Component (the Republic of Austria, represented by the
Monitoring Engineer Danube Hydro) and the Preferntial Trade Area (PTA) Bank were notified
of the mission, and the launching of the Power component on February 23 was attended by Mr.
D. Rutabingwa, Senior Project Officer, PTA Bank.
3.    The overall objective of the Energy I project was to assist the Government of Malawi to
formulate and implement an integrated program to make the most economic use of Malawi's
energy resources. The specific objectives of the Power component were assistance in the
implementation of the Government's least cost power development program, improvement of
system reliability, ensuring energy pricing signaled economic cost of supply, and enhancing
ESCOM's electricity consumption billing system. The objective of the Wood Energy
component was to alleviate the gap between sustainable supplies of woodfuel and the growing
demand. To achieve these objectives a Credit Agreement (CR 1990-MAI) for SDR34.8 million
(US$46.7 million equivalent) was signed on August 30, 1989 between the IDA and the Republic
of Malawi, and declared effective on February 6, 1990. The original closing date of December
31, 1994 was extended to February 28, 1996, after one extension. This mission, taking place
within days of the closing date of the Credit, constitutes the final supervision mission on the
Energy I project.
4     The Government onlent US$31.9 million equivalent to ESCOM to help finance the
Power component of the project. The remainder (US$14.8 million equivalent) was earmarked
for the Wood Energy component and for Energy Pricing study implemented by the Government.
5.    . In support of the project objectives, the Power component comprised: the construction
of the 2x25MW hydroelectric power plant at Tedzani III with a Ikm headrace tunnel, a pressure
shaft, a reinforced concrete box structured powerhouse and two 25MW generating units and
related electromechanical equipment as its main features; rehabilitation of generating plant and
equipment; and institutional strengthening of ESCOM through: procurement of computers,
studies related to tariffs, asset revaluation,  transmission and distribution systems.  The
objectives of the Wood Energy component were to have been achieved through: Institutional
Development, including improved management and protection of indigenous woodlands; wood



2
pricing and improved revenue collection; Wood Production: promoting private sector production
and establishment of some 2,800 ha of government fuelwood plantation on the environmentally
fragile slopes of Mount Mulange. Wood Conservation through assistance for the production and
marketing of fuel efficient cooking stoves and reducing wood consumption in tobacco curing.
Support Services consisting of assistance for training and applied research.
6.    As explained during the September 1995 energy supervision mission and in subsequent
correspondence related to project completion, the mission reiterated that the purpose of the
Implementation Completion Report mission is to initiate the preparation of the ICR which
assesses, as described in the then distributed World Bank's Operational Manual 13.55 (April
1994), the level of achievement of project objectives; the performance respectively of Bank and
the Borrower; the outcome of the project and its sustainability, and lessons learned from the
implementation of the project. Whereas the Bank's draft will deal with all aspects, the mission
advises the Borrower's input to the ICR to be in the form of a comment on or as a supplement to
the Bank's draft of the ICR, focusing on implementation experience and constraints (from
project preparation to commissioning), lessons learned, measures to ensure sustainability of
project output, monitoring guidelines in future operations, performance of the Bank and
cofinanciers including their relationship, assistance or otherwise provided by supervision
missions. The major issue of compliance and non-compliance to conditionalities will need to be
properly assessed by the parties concerned. Advance preparation by the implementing agencies
on these issues will facilitate the timely processing of the ICR, since as the following paragraphs
indicate Borrower's comments on the draft ICR presuppose readiness of the implementation
units to provide prompt comments on their respective sub-components.
7.    In regard to the processing time table, the mission has informed that the draft ICR is
expected to be ready by April 30, 1996. Subject to compliance to this date, the Borrower (the
Ministry of Finance) and the Implementing Agencies of the various components (ESCOM, the
Forestry Department and the Department of Energy) will receive the draft ICR by May 15, 1996.
Copies will also be sent to cofinaniers (the Republic of Austria, and the PTA Bank) for their
comments. The Bank expects receipt of comments from the Borrower in the form of a
consolidated comment and views, if any, on the project by July 15, 1996. The comments from
cofinanciers are also expected to be received by July 15. Compliance to these dates will ensure
delivery of the ICR to the Executive Directors of the Bank by August 31, 1996 as presently
targeted by Southern Africa Department. This delivery date will have to be complied with.
Overview of the Power Component
8.    At appraisal the Power component was estimated to cost US$12.27 million equivalent in
local and US$49.60 million in foreign. The Wood Energy component including charcoal and
the Energy Pricing study were estimated at US$6.12 million local and US$10.36 million
foreign. The total Project cost was thus US$78.35 million, of which US$59.96 million was in
foreign currency. The cost to completion of the Energy I project has been estimated to total
US$.12.01 local and US$82.52 million foreign, an overall increase of 20.6% compared to the
original estimate. The additional cost is accounted for solely by the Power component which has
increased by 26.9%. The reasons for the increase are considered to be delays in project
implementation, more robust design of electromechanical equipment adding not only to
equipment cost but also to cost of structures, as well as an underestimation of the base costs for
works and some equipment. The revised foreign currency requirement   for the Power
component is US$72.54, with a likely rounded figure of US$73 million. The Republic of Austria



3
helped provide additional financing for the turbines and generators. Following major contract
awards in 1992/93 and upon realization of cost increases, the PTA Bank provided a loan to
ESCOM to finance the electrical and hydromechanical deliveries, thereby releasing additional
funding for the civil works financed by the Bank. The following is the revised financing plan
provides the following: US$31.9 million (IDA); US$26.40 million equivalent by Austria and
US$8.4 million equivalent by PTA, leaving a shortfall of US$6.3 million at this late juncture of
the project cycle. The financing of the shortfall was a subject of correspondence between the
Government (ESCOM) and the Bank in the latter part of 1994 and early 1995. In light of its
heavy commitment in the Energy sector in Malawi, the Bank advised ESCOM to look for other
sources of financing.
9.    The PTA Bank, represented by its Senior Project Officer during the ICR mission, was
considering making a recommendation to finance the shortfall. Upon PTA's request, the
mission informed that IDA did not provide assistance towards the cost increase of Tedzani III
due to the fact that the Association had already allocated US$55 million equivalent to the Energy
sector, mainly to help finance the Kapichira hydroelectric scheme. PTA Bank has taken note of
this explanation.
10.   The activities of the ICR mission for the Power component included the following: (i)
updating information on the progress of the project with emphasis on physical implementation
including performance of plant permanently installed; (ii) actual costs to completion including
yearly disbursements by the Bank and other cofinanciers; (iii) performance indicators per the
SAR of the Energy I project, including deliberations on the need or otherwise of monitoring
guidelines to follow up project's output and sustainability; (iv) overview of relevant information
to assess the economic costs and benefits of the two components of the project; and (v) overview
of the compliance and non-compliance to the legal covenants. Most of the information on (ii)
and (iii) has been collected during the mission..  Breakdown of  local costs to yearly
expenditures will be needed on the Power component to complete the information on (i);
ESCOM has agreed to transmit them to the Bank prior to mid-March 1996.
11.   The mission reviewed with ESCOM the detailed description contained in the SAR to
enhance understanding of specific objectives and the degree of achievement of those objectives.
The optimization study of the Tedzani III scheme coupled with the Consultant's final progress
report which, according to ESCOM has not yet been provided, will help in explaining variances
from the original basic designs adopted and project cost estimates assessed. ESCOM will
promptly provide any additional information that might come to light in due course. ESCOM
was also advised to read the terms of reference for the studies related to tariffs, asset revaluation,
transmission and distribution system studies to better understand the objectives of those
subcomponents and to help ESCOM prepare respective contribution to the Borrower's input.
12.   The objective of implementing the least cost power development program has been met,
although with some delay, cost increases and litigation with contractors. The quality of the
construction of the power scheme is considered high by any standard. The turbines and the
generators are also of high standard and have achieved higher guaranteed values than provided
for in the contract. Operational sustainability of the plant is assured through the well designed
training program at the manufacturers' works and the hands-on-training during erection and
testing at site. The power scheme has, however, applied latest technology especially in
protection and control. Expertise input for the first year of operation to instill know-how on
operational and maintenance practices, and to introduce monitorable guidelines on hydroplant



4
operation and maintenance on all features of the hydroplant is considered necessary by the ICR
mission. Frequency of technical auditing should be established and monitored.
13.   Some of the study components (tariffs, asset revaluation) have provided useful tools to
ESCOM to aim at improving financial performance. ESCOM's financial performance has,
however, been deteriorating and has not met the important cash generation covenant for 5 out of
the 7 years of the implementation period of this Project. The record on receivables is also not
very encouraging. The reasons for these deficiencies were discussed and focus in the main on the
fast depreciation of the Kwacha followed by its floating, not anticipated during appraisal when
the conditionalities took shape. ESCOM's concerted efforts to bring down the receivables to 60
days has been hampered by non-payment by Government departments.
14.   The generation rehabilitation component, though not fully implemented, has assisted in
improving the reliability of supply. The construction of Blantyre West substation under the
Energy I project will improve reliability of supply to the load center in Blantyre by providing an
alternative route from the hydrostations. The recommendations of the transmission and
distribution system studies (including the loss reduction study) could not as yet be implemented
due to lack of financing, and hence their objective in improving reliability and quality of supply
has yet to be realized.
15.   The monitoring of future operations will be similar to the Performance Indicators in use
up to now with the addition of the Malawi lake level, reliability of the transmission system at
main substations, interruptions at distribution level and Tedzani III operational performance.
Technical loss reduction measures should be compiled in the form of project documents to
facilitate planning and sourcing of financing.
Overview of the Wood Energy component
16.   Delays in civil works and  procurement affected effective implementation of field
activities in the early phases of project implementation. Wages and salaries soared in the first
two and half years affecting the allocation of the available funds. The implementation of the
component was also adversely affected by early management deficiencies, which included
financial management, coordination and management of the various subcomponents. The
situation improved as from the appointment of component manager in 1992, although the
difficulties with the financial controller persisted. Audited accounts were more often than not
delayed.
17.   In spite of these deficiencies, the Wood Energy component has achieved, to a large
extent, its main objectives, although it fell short in terms of wood energy pricing and recovery of
economic rent for indigenous trees cut, as well as in conservation and management of indigenous
wood resources. Through extension activities and other government support, the situation is
such that at the end of the project the private sector, notably smallholder farmers have assumed a
significant and, depending on Government follow-up on support programs, a sustainable role in
production of wood for fuel and poles. This includes private sector production of a major share
of planting stock. Significant amounts of wood for fuel have been produced by both the private
sector and at the Mulanje plantations. At the same time these plantations have had 'a major
environmental impact on what was previously steep wooded slopes being cut over for squatter
farmers. More efficient utilization of woodfuels has also been achieved with the widespread
production and sales of some 500,000 improved charcoal stoves. The savings in woodfuel use in



5
tobacco curing by estate farms through the use of improved fumace design is also worthy of
note.
18.   Several actions, particularly in regard to  pilot operations, will be needed to both
maintain the momentum that has been started under Energy I. and build on its achievements
These have been discussed by the mission, and will be detailed under Future Operations section
of the ICR.
Energy Pricing
19.   The Energy Pricing Study has achieved its objective of signaling economic cost for
energy supply.  Policy initiatives taken by Govemment include abolition of the price
stabilization fund from petroleum pricing and the complete removal of paraffin subsidies. Coal
mining at Mchenga, previously operated by the Mining Investment and Development
Corporation, has been privatized.
Lilongwe, Malawi
February 29, 1996.



- 46 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



Thupins int. flowP e                                                SECRETARY TO THE TREASURY
T.kpbowt LIongwe 7U2 t99                                                 CM CSmY OF FINANCE
Tn;t 44407                                                                 P.O. BOX 30049
F=awg 71 6                                                                    LILONGWE 3
IMALAWI
Ref. No. 32/1/55/II                                                   11 July 1996
The World Bank,
1818H Street N.W.,
Washington D.C 20433,
USA
(Att: Mr .l.S. Racki)
Dear Sir,
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ENERGY 1 (CR 1990 - MAI)
I have the honour to refer to your letter of March 13th, 1996 regarding the above
mentioned subject.
Attached hereto is a copy of the comments submitted to this office by the
Director of Forestry.
Yours faithfully,
K.A. Mphonda
for:                SECRETARYTO THE TREASURY



Ref. No   14/2/11                                               28th May i 96 
FROM                THE DIRECTOR OF FORESTRY, P.O. BOX 30048,
LILONGWE 3.
TO           :      THE SECRETARY TO THE TREASURY, P  . B    300494   't               J*
LILONGWE 3.
Through             The Secretary for Natural Resources, Private Ba 
Lilongwe 3.
ENERGY I CR 1990 - MAI: DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION
1.    I am in receipt of the above draft report under cover of letter dated- May 7, 1996
from the World Bank Energy and Infrastructure Operations-Division, Southern
Affican Department (copy attached for ease of reference), andeoffer 'rnycommerits--as-
follows:                                              ,      ;
SDecific Comments                                      ,                ;
2.    Page IV para. 3 under Wood Energy, the list of subcomponentsihould include(j- 2
Support Services.
3.    Page 3. Para. 8 - under E (ii) Wood Production - should include the following after
cc ......from  Government retail nurseries, including establishment of 60 retail
nurseries to sell seedlings to smalUholder farmers and estates  ............. ""provision of
seedling production packages to smallholder farmers for tree seedling production"
and tree planting incentive bonus to ................... Demonstration woodlots were also
established near government retail nurseries and on smallholder farmer gardens to
demonstrate suitability, husbandry and growth of various species."
4.    Page 9 Para 32 under (ii) There was lirnited response to the commercialisation and
advertisements for charcoal production on the Viphya. Only tobacco growing
organisations  such as Press Agriculture, Impala Farming, Kamuzu Academy
responded positively. The Mulanje softwood charcoal production site at Chambe
failed mainly because of overhead costs of maintaining the skyline.
5.    Page 10  Para 34. The Forestry Department banned the clearing of indigenous,
woodlands for the purpose of replanting with exotics. It did not ban cutting of
indigenous trees. Rather the Department introduced strict control over the granting of
licences for the harvesting or utilisation of indigenous wood.



6.    Para. 35. The firewood stumpages increased two-fold to MK45/m3 for indigenous
natural wood, and to MK25/m3 for planted exotic wood. In addition, the statement
as phrased can be mnisleading. Availability of preferred woodfuel tree species as free
goods caused the failure to collect revenue from sale of indigenous wood.
7.    Page 11  Para. 41 - Wood Conservation - The credit facility disbursed only
MK22,000 out of an initial and only instalment of MK75,000 out of a total credit
facility allocation of MKI50,000.
General Comments
8.    The Project Implementation Completion Report (ICR) makes good coverage of
project description, implementation experiences, issues and lessons learnt. However,
the report is deficient in that it falls short of making concrete recommendations for
folow-up actions by the Bank, other funding agencies and the Malawi government.
The ICR presents good observations but one would expect that it should come up with
recommendations on what needs to be done.
9.    Most of the subcomponents under the Wood Energy Component were experiments.
Most of these subcomponents except the Tree Planting and Survival Bonus Scheme,
achieved limited or satisfactory success. Some subcomponents were pilot. Both
failures and successes contributed to lessons learnt.  As pilot activities, the
subcomponents were implemented in few districts only. The understanding should
have been that lessons learnt from the pilot activities and failures and successes
experienced would subsequently be applied to the remaining districts in the country.
10.   In the process of implementing both components, the Wood Energy and Charcoal
Production, some momentum was created through the successes. Such momenturm, if
not consolidated, through follow-up actions, will get lost. It has been pointed out to
both the latest Bank Supervision and ICR draft missions that the view of the Forestry
Department is that the Environmental Support Programme (ESP) is not successor to
either the Wood Energy or Charcoal Production components. It is our feeling that
the ESP attempts to address issues identified under the National Environmental Action
Plan (NEAP) process, but does not adequately address the needed follow-up actions to
the Energy I Wood Energy and Charcoal Production Components.
2



11.   We would therefore wish to see, as part of the main text of the ICR, singled out,
concrete recommendations on follow-up acdons. It is not intended here to elaborate
witin the cur ent comments what sort of actions need to be recommended. Rather it
should be adequate to just suggest that the issues raised under para. 60 should be
expanded and consolidated into recommendations on actions by the various parties
inchlding the Bank, other donor agencies and the Government of Malawi.
G.P. Sakanda
DIRECIOR OF FORESTRY
r
3



Tdep0-6: Uoagw. 732 1                                     MIITY OF FDIANCZ
TFa: 44407                                                  P.O. BOX 30049
LUONOWI 3
MALAWI
Ref. No. 32/1/55                                12 July 1996
The World Bank,
1818 H Street, N.W.,
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20433,
United States of America
Attention: Mr. J.S. Racki
Dear Sir,
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ENERGY 1 (CR 1990-MAI)
I have the honour to refer to your letter of March 13th, 1996
regarding the above mentioned subject.
Attached hereto is a copy of the comments submitted to this office
by ESCOM.
Yours faithfully,
K.A. Mphonda
for   SECRETARY TO THE TREASUR
Att'd.
c.c.: The General Manager,
ESCOM,
P.O. Box 2047,
Blantyre.



HAAWI ENRY  1:  PRJECT
CREDIT 1990 HRI
ESCOH'S COHENTS TO THE
DRAFT IHPLIEMENATION COHPLETION REPORT DATED JUNE 1996
1.    INPLEDENTATION EXPERIENCE
a.    DELAYS
The delays experienced at the initial stages of Implementation as
recorded in paragraph 4 of Evaluation Summary and paragraph 17 of
the Main Report were indeed mainly due to bureaucracy within the
Malawi Government. However, the problems encountered during bid
evaluation, were as a result of the World Bank entertaining a
query from a Civil Contractor, concerning the evaluation process,
contrary to the provisions of the Tender Documents.  Similarly
the issue of:
b.    CLAIMS
Claims of over 170% issued by the Electrical Contractor will take
longer to settle (at additional costs to ESCOM regardless of the
outcome) as the contractor has not performed in compliance with
his contractual obligations from the start to the end of the
contract. The insistence by the World Bank, made it possible to
engage this contractor, even when it was known that the
contractor's line of normal business is procurement of electrical
materials on a supply and delivery basis; and that as a lead
contractor of the joint venture he neither possessed an in house
engineering  nor  design  capabilities.        Contrary  to  the
requirements of the tender documents neither did this contractor
have a manufacturing facility nor specialist commissioning
services.
2.    PERFORHANCE OF THE POWER SECTOR
Load shedding due to low Shire River flows occurred only during the
months of November and December 1995. A major contribution to the load
shedding recorded is due to the weakness of the distribution network
which has been aggravated by a shortage of materials as a result of
foreign currency scarcity.
3.     ESSONS LEARNED
The autonomy of ESCOM and its Board has not been eroded; if anything,
it has improved.   However what has deteriorated is the approval
machinery within Government for the electricity tariffs and this need
to be addressed urgently taking account of the Banks comments.
OCHs



- 47 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
APPENDIX C
MAP OF MALAWI SHOWING POWER FACILITIES






MAP SECTION






IBRD 23398
RLH                                                             A MALAWI
* Kironga                               POWER V PROJECT
-                U _   *  Office
Rivers                                                                                          Thermal Power
°     Towns Cait                                              . l                              i       Hydro Power
0  FUFU                                    Stations
*     District Capitals                    NORTHERN                         |                          Major Substations
*      National Capital                           Rumphi                                                Hydro Power Stations
\   .                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Future (Investigated)
Region Boundaries                                                                               Possible Future
International0                                                                                  Hydra Power Stations
Boundt ries ona                                Ewendeni       Lake        _                     Mini Hydro Power
Boundaries        i1pMzuzu  Nk \to                                    Stations Planned
REGION                            ,                         132 kVO.H.L. Existing
Chikangowa p               YIWAND                    .  .  . 132 kV O.H.L.
p <;1>1       /           i                Under construction
Mzimbo                  CtosChisumolo  ILC I         RRO,tCs  Reinforcement of 1 32 k       .V 0H.L.
(~~~~j ~~Operating at 66 ksV
o                 L t   :ikama 1.:'       -      66 kV O.H.L. Existing
ZAMBIA                                                                                           .I  . . 66 kV O.H.L. Planned
_______  33 kV O.H.L. Existing
l4s   Ma aw  i
33 kV O.H.L. Planned
tu4
*                            >  > (<,.OI Nkhatrakata  .            .... ...... ....... 11 kV O.H.L.
Kosungu          R
0ChilangO   Ntchisi \  A                             KILOMETERS 0    20   40   60   80   100
I9                    *0                                                ' I I '          '        I
Madisi                                                                __  _  _   _  _  _  _  _
a
Mponela                                                       MILES 0       20       40       60
CENtkAI                 Dawo/
Machiny                                       SAm
A; [ kEGiON      <           R        ,           I_pb
-           <?       \ {                        <       S\             \Nt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~amera 
This map has been  prepared         Q
..I.,i-ely for the or--Ltce I\/  }l .....   
of -edes cnd  ,s for the .\..^                                                          / >                         L.ke
G.-Ie                                                                      :&ues   /SofTW4ERNdS   Ch|to
Graup.The de-aainab-ans  use
and  the  boundaries  shown
an this mep do -ot-pIy -n the 
port at The World 8ank Goup.                     t                                         '5' Linonde
any iudgmttn  on the legal                                                  KHOLO   IZI         *
status at any territory o                                                                          Machang 
endorsement or --cpt-ce    of                                                        ii           Zomba          Loe.
su-h bounderies.                                                        N CHIMBEYb- r,d                           CH
KENYA tOMALIA
ZAI RE                                                         MPAAMANGA
tXTANZANIA        ,"F ..        1'      RJc              hY OrE              Ba t\ ty*c    loi                              ,
-   I ROJE  CM ac
KAPICHIRA                 2                 M/s Thya
ANGOlA                        JFALLS                                                                0 * akwasa
|  ZAMBIA                                           Scr'er                  Nchaol        B
< < 4 (</ > 1ll );O ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bongulo
ZIMBABWE  2 tMOZAMBEQUE
NAMIBiA
rjBOTSWAN\_                                                                                    \I
MADAGASCAR                                                          Nsanie
May 1992












