Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
c-t /49'q-<6,
Report No. 7476-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
FEBRUARY 6, 1989
Southern Africa Department
Industry and Energy Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Ma!awi Kwacha (MR)
USS 1.00 - M'R t.53
MK 1.00 - US$ 0.40
MK 1.00 - 100 tambalas
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
. meter (m)                      -    3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)              -    10.75 square feet
1 kilometer (km)                 -    0.621 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)         -    0.386 square miles
1 cubic meter (m3)               -    35.3 cubic feet
1 kilovolt (kV)                  -    1000 vo!tl
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)            a    1000 watt hours
1 megawatt (MW)                  -    1000 kilowatts
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)            -    1 mil'ton kilowatt hours
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)          -    1000 kilovolt ampere
mtpy                             -   million tons per year
MVAr                             -   megavolt ampere-reactive
pf                               -   power factor
toe                                   tonnes of oil equivalent
tpd                              '    tonnes per day
WEIGTS S, VOLUMES AND MEASURES
1 m3 (solid) wood                -    1.43 m3 (stacked) wood
1 m3 (stacked) wood              *    0.70 m3 solid wood
1 m3 (solid) hard wood           -    0.70 m3 ton of wood
1 m3 (stacked) hard wood         -    0.49 ton of wood
1 ton of charcoal                -    7 giga calories
1 ton of hard wood               -    3 giga calories
1 meter (m)                      -    3.3 feet
1 cubic meter (m3)               -    35.3 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha)                   -    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                 -    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)         a   0.39 square miles
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
ACU                          - Area Control Unit
CDC                          - Commonwealth Development Corporation
DSB                          - Department of Statutory Bodies
EEC                          - Puropean Economic Community
EIB                          - European Investment Bank
EPD                          - Economic Planning and Development
EPU                          - Energy Planning Unit
ESCOM                        - Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi
ESMAP                        - Energy Sector Management assistance Program
PD                           - Forestry Department
FG                           - Forest Guards
FRIM                         - Forest Rssearch Institute of Malawi
GDP                          - Gross Domestic Product
ICS                          - Interconnected System
KfW                          - Kreditanstadt far Wiederaufbau
MAI                          - Mean Annual Increment
MC?                          - Malawi College of Forestry
M & E                        - Monitoring and Evaluation
MFNR                         - Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources
MIDCOR                       - Mining Investment and Development Corporation
MTIT                         - Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Tourism
NM                           - Nurserymen
NRDP                         - National Rural Development Program
NORAD                        - Norwegian Aid Development
OPC                          - Office of the President and Cabinet
PCC                          - Petroleum Confrol Commission
PM                           - Patrolmen
PSIP                         - Power Subsector Investment Program
RCP                          - Revenue Collection Posts
SADCC                        - Southern African Development Coordination Conference
SCADA                        - System Control and Data Acquisition
TA                           - Technical Assistant
TAMS                         - Tippets - Abbet - McCarthy - Stratton
UNDP                         - United Nations Development Program
WLPU                         - Watermeyer, Legge, Pieshold & Itrlmann
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Malawit April 1 - March 31
ESCOMt January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCAuL USE ONLI
Z                                   ~~~~~~~~~~MAIAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             The Republic of Malawi.
Amount:               SDR34.8 million (US$46.7 million equivalent).
Baneficiaries:        Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi; the Ministry
of Forestry and Natural Resources (MFNR); and the
Department of Economic Planning and Development
(EPD).
Terms.                IDA standard terms.  On-lending terms for the power
component estimated at US$31.9 million will be at an
interest rate of 7.65Z, repayment period of 20 years
including grace period of 5 years, ESCOM taking the
foreign exchange risk. The balance of the Credit
will be passed on by Government to MFNR and EPD.
Pro_ect Obiectives
1.       The proposed Project would assist the Government to formulate and
implement an integrated program to make the most eco.- 'ic use of Malawi's
energy resources through the implementation of (i) a least cost power
development plan; (ii) a comprehensive strategy for the management of wood
energy on a cost-effective and environmentally sustainable basis.
Additionally, the Project would give support to strengthening the
management information eystem of the power utility and of the forestry
sector, and help strengthen energy pricing policy.
Project Description
2.       The Project's power component comprises:  (i) increasing the hydro
generation capacity by 50 MW and rehabilitating existing hydroelectric
generating units; (ii) strengthening the in-house planning capability of
the power utility through training and provision of hardware and software;
(iii) undertaking studies related to tariffs, asset revaluation as well as
transmission and distribution systems. The energy component of the Project
comprises: (i) increasing on-going pilot charcoal production and marketing
activities and encouraging commercialization; (ii) encouraging increased
tree planting by the private sector through provision of seedlings,
extension services and incentive payments; (iii) encouraging fuelwood
conservation through the production of more efficient charcoal kilns and
cooking stoves as well as through dissemination of research findings on
fuel-efficient techniques in tobacco curing; (iv) improvements in wood
prices and in the system for revenue collection and protection and
management of indigenous forest; (v) strengthening the forestry
institutions; and (vi) undertaking an energy pricing study covering liquid
fuels, woodfuel and coal.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used  recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
3.       The pilot charcoal production and wood energy components of the
proposed Project are continuations of on-going activities. Charcoal
production and marketing was initiated on a pilot basis in 1987 under the
Wood Industries Restructuring Loan. The Project will assist in expediting
the privatization of the sector. The wood energy component was initiated
in December 1986 under Wood Energy II Loan which has been cancelled
following the request of the Government. PPF bridge financing has been
provided to support the continuation of essential activities pending
effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
Benefits arnd Risks
4.       The Project would enhance the economic utilization of the
indigenous energy resources by increasing hydro generation capability and
by supporting a comprehensive program to (a) increase private wood
production and conservation; (b) promote more efficient utilization of
existing resources including conversion of industrial thinnings to
chsrcoa'.; and (c) improve the system to protect and manage the natural
forest. 'she Project would also benefit the institutional development of
ESr.OM and the Forestry Department and would introduce reforms in wood
energy pricing policy. The economic rate of return for the power component
is estimated at about 11Z. The charcoal and wood production components
have corresponding figures of 182 and 142 to 1.i respectively.
5.       Because of the long gestation period of hydroelectric schemes,
there is risk that new capacity will be brought on stream too early or too
late if demand forecasts prove inaccurate. Both such eventualities can be
costly. In the case of Malawi forecasting uncertainties have been
increased by the situation in Southern Africa. Accordingly, the power
development program is being designed to permit flexibility to respond to
demand through phasing of generators and availability of standby capacity.
The risk of energy deficits from probable consecutive dry years would be
mitigated through the contingent plan of dredging the entry channel from
Lake Malawi to the Shire River. The wood energy component involves
simultaneous implementation of a wide array of policy measures and programs
and will pose an implementation chal!enge for the Forestry Department. The
risks would be minimized through strengthening of the Forestry Department
and the Energy Planning Unit which will continuously review progress and,
together with the Bank's supervision missions, provide timely advice on
corrective measures.



- iii -
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
Local   ForeiLn   Total
(US$ million)
Power Component
________________
A. Tedzani III
Main civil works               8.49    15.22    23.71
Electromechanical              1.04    17.65    18.69
Substations                   1.99      9.94    11.93
Engineering                    0.74     4.66      5.40
Subtotal Tedzani III   12.26    47T.47    59.73
B.  Generation Rehabilitation       0.02     1.47      1.49
C.  Institution Strengthening         --     0.60      0.60
Subtotal Power          l1.2      49.54    61.82
Interest During Construction        8.58        --     8.58
Total Power             20.86    49354    75T4T
Energy Component
D.  Charcoal                         0.10      1.00     1.10
E. Woodenergy                        E.02     8.86    14.88
F. Energy Pricing                      --      0.50     0.50
TotF. Energy              6.12    10.36    16.48
Total Financing
Requirement            26.98    59.90    86.88
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Local   Foreign   Total
T US$-mI=oIn)
Government of Malawi                    10.3       -       10.3
ESCOM's Cash Generation                 12.3       -       12.3
Austria                                   -      17.6      17.6
IDA                                      4.4    42.3       46.7
Total                             27.0    39.9       86.9
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS OF IDA CREDIT
IDA FY             1989 (1) 1990   1991    1992    1993    1994
Annual             1.5       7.5     4.4    10.8    13.6       8.9
Cumulative         1.5      9.0    13.4    24.2    37.8    46.7
1/ PPF of USS1.5 million is expected to be disbursed prior to the effectiveness
of the proposed Credit.



MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .....  1
Energy Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Biomass ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .... .        1
Coal  ....  .      .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  1
Hydropower  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .... .      2
Other Energy Resources  ... .        .  .  .  .    .... .       2
Energy Demand and Suppiy  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .....  2
Woodfuels   .    .    .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .   .    .   .    .  .    .  2
Coal  . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    3
Petroleum Products  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Electricity   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  3
Energy Pricing Study  .... ........            .     .     .....    3
Organization of the Energy Sector .   .   .   .   . . . . . . . . . .    4
Government's Energy Sector Objectives and Strategy . . . . .   4
Experience with Past and Ongoing Lending .  .  .  .  . . . . . .    5
II. THE BORROWER AND THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES  . . . . . . . . . .          7
The Borrower .        .      .     .      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
The Implementing Agencies  ... .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .....  7
Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi (ESCOM)  . . . .   7
Institutional Framework  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
Management and Staffing  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
Planning and Engineering . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
Training  ......... ....                   ....         10
Insurance and Taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Energy Planning Unit (EPU)  .....  .           ....... .   11
The Forestry Department.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
III. THE ENERGY MARKET  ......  .          .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .   .   12
The Electricity Market  .....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   12
Historical ...................... . 12
Demand Projections .. .                                        13
Capacity and Generation Balances.                              14
The Fuelwood Market  .......  .           ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..   .  14
Existing Energy Sector Facilities and Sources  . . . . . . . . 15
Existing Power Facilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Generation System ............  ...                    .   15
Load Dispatch Center  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Transmission and Distribution Systems . . . . . .   17
Existing Sources of Woodfuel   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
IV.  WOOD ENERGY .....                                                   .  18
Background ..............                                        . . 18
Wood Energy I Project  ........... ..                ..20
The report is based on the findings of two appraisal missions (for power and
wood energy) which visited Malawi in June and July/August 1988 respectively,
consisting of J. Armitage, E. Bundi, K. McNamara, Z. Mian and A. Telahun. R.
Broadfield has also participated in the preparation of the report.



Wood Energy II Project ....  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..... .  .  .  .   .  21
Overview of the Strategy for Wood Energy . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Pricing Policy Reform  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Indigenous Forest Management   ... .  .  .  .  .    .... .  .  .   . 23
Forest Extension   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .... .  .  .  .  .   .  24
Retail Nurseries   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .... .  .  .  .  .   .  24
Tree Planting Incentive Payment .     .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Government Plantations       . .  .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Energy Efficiency Initiatives .     .      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Institutional Strengthening and Support Services .  .  . . . . . 27
Summary .         .         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
V.  PROGRAM AND PROJECT ....  .  .  .  .  .   . ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  29
Power Subsector Least Cost Investment Program . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Energy Sector Investment and Source of Financing  . . . . . . . . .  30
Works  in  Progress   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
The   Project   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
Project Objectives    ..31
Rationale for IDA Involvement   ..32
Project Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
Project Description    ..32
Project Cost Estimate   ..34
Project Financing   ..35
Project Implementation    ..36
Implementation of Power Components  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
Implementation of Energy Components . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
Consulting Services    ..37
Procurement for Power Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
Procurement for Wood Energy Component   . . . . . . . . . . .  37
Advance Contracting  . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .  38
Disbursement   ..39
Special Accounts   ..39
Environmental Aspects   ..39
Project  Risks   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  40
Project Monitoring and Supervision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS AND COST RECOVERY     ..42
Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi (ESCOM) . . . . . . . . . .  42
Financial Position and Past Operating Results  . . . . . . . . 42
Accounting and Auditing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  43
Tariffs . . . . . . . . . . n ..    . . . . . . . . . . .   44
Future Finar1 lal Operations and Position   .    .44
Proposed Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  46
Forestry  Department    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   46
Wood Energy Component    ..46
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION    ..48
Electric Power Components    ..48
Charcoal Components.                                                 49
Wood Energy Component    ..49
VIII.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   51
Prior to Negotiations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  51
At Negotiations .51
Condition of Board Presentation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Conditions of Effectiveness .53
Condition of Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  53
Recommendation .53



.IST OF ANNEXES
1.1          Hydroelectric Potential of Malawi
1.2          Energy Balance 1987
2.1          Proposed Organization at Government Level for Medium Term Planning
Process (All Parastatals)
2.2          ESCOM Organization Chart
2.3          ESCOM Selected Performance Indicators
3.1          ESCOM Past Sales and Numbers of Consumers
3.2          ESCOM Inerconnected System:  Sales and Generation Base Scenario
(Actual and Projected)
Peak Demand Low Scenario
(Actual and Projected)
Peak Demand High Scenario
(Actual and Projected)
3.3          ESCOM Interconnected System Capacity and Generation Balances
3.4          Existing Facilities 1987:    ESCOM's Generating Plant
ESCOM's Transmission and Distribution
Systems
Summary List of Private Generating
Plant
5.1          Detailed Project Description
5.2          Energy Sector Investment Program 1989-1994:
Power
Wood Energy
5.3          Energy I Project Cost Estimates:
Contingencies Shown Separately
Contingencies included in each
Subcomponent
5.4          Summary of Project Implementation Schedule
5.5          Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5.6          Monitoring Guidelines and Performance Indicators
6.1          ESCOM Income Statements for Years Ending December 31, 1987-1995
6.2          ESCOM Sources and Application of Funds Statement for Years ending
December 31, 1987-1995
6.3          ESCOM Balance Sheet for Years Ending December 31, 1987-1995
6.4          Notes and Assumptions for Financial Statements
7.1          Least Cost Power Generation Program
7.2          Economic Analysis of Electric Power Components
7.3          Long Run Average Incremental Cost of Energy
7.4          Economic Analysis of Charcoal Component
7.5          Summary of Output from Direct Wood Production Components
7.6          Total Costs and Benefits of Wood Energy Component
MAP          IBRD 20917R Malawi Energy I Project Dated December, 1988



I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
1.01      Malawi's main indigenous energy resources are biomass and
hydropower. All petroleum products and the major part of coal are imported.
Coal mining is at an early stage of development and exploration efforts need
to be intensified to assess the economically recoverable coal resources in
Malawi. Detailed information on the energy resources is given in the Joint
UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment Report (Malawi: Issues and Options in the
Energy Sector, April 1982,.
1.02      Biomass.  In 1987 biomass fuels, mainly woodfuel, accounted for
more than 95Z of the country's total primary energy supply. In aggregate
Malawi's forest resource is still extensive, covering about 38Z of the total
land area. However, of the total of about 4 million hectares of forests,
almost 48% is in the Northern Region where only 21Z of the population live.
In the Southern and Central Regions, population pressure has led to
widespread deforestation and the remaining woodlands have very low
productivity. It is estimated that the present forest cover is declining at
the high rate of 3.5Z per year. Unless action is taken to correct this
trend, the environmental consequences are likely to be severe, leading to
soil erosion and damage to watershed areas including silting up of water
courses and flooding.
1.03      Malawi produces sugar cane molasses and juices which are used in
ethanol production. In response to the high cost of petroleum imports
accounting for some 22Z of foreign currency earnings, an ethanol plant was
commissioned in 1982 to enhance the supply of transport fuels. Currently
the plant, operating only during the cane crushing season, produces about 10
million liters of ethanol. Ethanol is mixed with gasoline to obtain a 20:80
alcohol/gasoline ratio and helped to reduce petroleum imports by about 72 in
1987. Ethanol is priced at gasoline import parity to which are added an
octane enhancement premium plus local transport and handling costs. As long
as the Mozambique route is closed the ethanol plant is expected to remain
financially viable. However, once the least cost route is reopened, the
plant's viability will need to be reassessed. Possible use of ethanol as a
household fuel is under discussion.
1.04      Coal.  Malawi is known to have coal deposits in a number of
locations. The most promising deposits are in Ngana in the remote north of
the country, where some 95t of known coal resources of some 16 million tons
are estimated to be present. The other deposits are in geologically
disturbed areas and coal quality and seam thickness and continuity appear to
rule out further exploration and development effort. To counteract
disruption in the supply of coal from Mozambique, Government established the
Mining Investment and Development Corporation of Malawi (MIDCOR)in 1985, and
opened coal mining at one of the sites in the north at Kaziwiziwi where the
mineable coal potential is estimated at about 200,000 tons. Malawi needs to
augment the information on its coal deposits before it proceeds to develop a
priority investment program in this sector. Towards this end, the
Government of Malawi is intensifying exploration efforts in the Southern



- 2 -
parts of the country (Lengwe and Mwabvi) where, although speculative
reserves are only 10 million tons, coal quality indications are above
average compared to the other regions.
1.05      Hydropower.  The hydropower potential of Malawi is concentrated on
the Shire river on which all the existing hydroelectric power plants are
located.  Installed hydropower generating capacity amounts to 145 MW at
present.  The Shire river is known to have a potential of 500MW with
generation capability of 3,500 GWh. In addition, a number of other rivers
in the country have been identified with hydro potential estimated at 400MW
but have not been subject to detailed study. Annex 1.1 lists the hydr,)ower
potential of Malawi.
1.06      Other Energy Resources.  Data on average number of sunshine hours
per year is not yet established.  However, from data compiled by the
Meteorological Department (MD), the average insolation level is estimated at
18MJ/m2. 1/ Solar photovoltaic panels are used by the Department of Posts
and Telecommunications i,nd by the Malawi Broadcasting Corporation. Based on
observations made at 19 sites by MD, the proportion of hours with winds is
estimated at 67Z per annum. 2/ Some 8-10 windmills are used for water
pumping. Although hot springs have been identified, geothermal energy is
given low priority as an energy resource. Government is also encouraging
the private sector to prospect for petroleum and uranium.
Energy Demand and Supply
1.07      The 1987 energy consumption of Malawi is estimated to total 2.9
million toe. Non commercial energy forms account for 93.7Z of this total.
The difference is accounted for by imported petroleum (3.9Z), electririty
(1.4Z), coal (0.82) and ethanol (0.2?). Per capita consumption of a1l forms
of energy amounted to 0.36 toe. 3/ Industry (49.72) is the largest consumer
of commercial energy followed by transportation (36.7Z), agriculture (7.2Z),
households (6.0%) and power generation (0.4Z). Annex 1.2 gives the 1987
energy balance for Malawi.
1.08      Woodfuels.  Biomass fuels, largely woodfuel, account for more than
93% of Malawi's total energy demand. The estimated woodfuel consumption for
1984 is 8.6 m3 million, and the indicative figure for 1987 is 9.8 m3
million. The household sector uses wood or charcoal for cooking and heating
and accounts for more than 702 of the total demand for wood, the balance
being for curing tobacco and tea. Rural households, who usually collect
1/Source: Energy Planning Unit (EPU).
2/Source: EPU.
3/ Comparative 1985 figures for neighboring countries are: Zambia 0.8;
Tanzania 0.4; Kenya 0.5; Mozambique 0.25; Botswana 0.8.



- 3 -
rather than purchase their fuel, use some 60Z of the total woodfuel and
urban households account for the difference of 102. A major problem for
woodfuel supply is the uneven geographical edstribution of resources
relative to demand. The underpopulated Norti-ern Regior. is rich in forest
resources. In the heavily populated South and Central regions, where 792 of
the population live, there is now a substantial gap between the demand for
woodfuel and its sustainable supply from customary woodlands which is
leading to depletion of the forest stoc' (para 4.03). Measures are being
implemented by the Government to reverse this trend (para. 1.18).
1.09      Coal. Coal imports from Mozambique have been unstable due to
security problems, and supplies from Zambia and Zimbabwe have proved very
expensive for Malawi. To counteract disruptions in the supply of coal from
Mozambique, MIDCOR opened a coal mine at Kaziwiziwi in 1985 and is presently
substituting some 302 of the 40,000 ton consumption by Malawi industries.
'.10      Petroleum Products.  Supply of petroleum products in 1987 was
152.2 million liters, of which gasoline was 37.3Z, jet fuel and illuminating
kerosene 12.22 and diesel fuel 50.52. To ensure continuA.ty of supply
petroleum products are imported into Malawi through d,fferent routes. These
are South Africa (through Zimbabwe and Zambia), Northern Corridor (through
Tanzania), and Mozambique. Minimizing the impact of the high cost of
petroleum and ensuring stability of supply are major issues. The
identification of least cost supply options through a petroleum supply and
distribution study is a high priority action for Government. An energy
pricing study is included in the proposed Project and UNDP is providing
support to petroleum exploration.
1.11      Electricity.  Electricity generation accovr.ts for about 20? of
commercial energy supply in Malawi. The 1987 consumption totalled 466.5
GWh, 58.5 kWh per capita. ESCOM supplies electricity to about 35,200
consumers, and in 1987 about 22 of the total population had access to
electricity. 4/   Industry (68.8Z) is the major consumer followed by
domestic (16.62) and commercial (14.6Z). During the period 1970 - 1987
(Annex 3.1), consumption grew at the annual rate of 7.82 for domestic
consumers, 7.52 for commercial, 9.22 for industry and by 8.62 for all
categories. Generation and sales statistics are given in Annex 2.3.
Energy Pricing Policy
1.12      Energy prices in Malawi do not reflect economic costs.
Appropriate energy pricing policy will optimize the supply and use of energy
from various sources. In Malawi the linkages or substitution possibilities
between various energy sources are not substantial. Wood is not used for
generation of electricity nor does electricity play a leading role as a
substitute for woodfuel. Bagasse is used for generation of electricity for
sugar estates but presently does not compete with hydro produced
electricity. Domestically produced ethanol is used for blending imported
petroleum at parity prices with petroleum products. The rational approac1i
which fosters economically efficient allocation and use of energy resources
4/ Comparative figures of neighboring countries are: Zambia (1985) 10;
Zimbabwe (1980) 5; Tanzania (1980) 4; Kenya (1980) 6.



- 4 -
would be to structure energy prices to reflect the costs that would be
incurred to meet additional demand, so that prices would signal to consumers
the cost of providing them with additional energy supply. Government's
social objectives in setting relative prices should be built around economic
costs of energy supply. An Energy Pricing Study would be carried out under
the proposed Energy I Project, with the objective of determining appropriate
pricing policy for liquid fuels, coal and fuelwood. The proposed Project
also provides for a study on electricity tariffs.
Organization of the Energy Sector
1.13      There are a r.umber of Government organs involved in the energy
sector. The Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources (MFNR) is
responsible for forestry and mineral resources. The Forestry Department
responsible for the management, development and protection of the forestry
resources is under this Ministry. The Geological Survey Department (GSD) of
the Ministry is responsible for mineral exploration including petroleum and
coal. Coal development and mining is assigned to M!DCOR.
1.14      The Gover,nment has established a number of parastatals (like
MIDCOR) to discharge those activities which could not effectively or
equitably be handled by the private sector or the civil service. The
Government exercises control over parastatals through the Department of
Statutory Bodies (DSB) established in 1980 in the Office of the President
and Cabinet. In addition to MIDCOR, the Electricity Supply Commission of
Malawi (ESCOM) responsible for electricity generation and distribution, and
the Petroleum Control Commission (PCC), responsible for petroleum supply and
distribution, are energy sector parastatals reporting through their Boar-is
to DSB. Board members include a parent ministry (technical ministry having
relevance to the activities of the parastatals), Ministry of Finance and
other organs or individuals having linkages to or relevant qualification and
experience related to the activities of the parastatal. The parent
ministries in the energy sector are MFNR (woodfuel, petroleum, coal) and
Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism (power). Annex 2.1 shows the
organization of parastatals at government level.
1.15      The Energy Planning Unit (EPU) under the Department of Economic
Planning and Development (EPD) is responsible for energy policy formulation
and energy planning and coordination. Each parastatal liaises with EPU
through DSB. The initial role of EPU focussed on the establishment of the
unit and formulating energy data base and drafting of an energy policy
document. EPU was the co-ordinator of the least cost power development
study. The future role of EPU will focus on updating from time to time the
energy policy document, strengthening energy planning and co-ordination,
preparing guidelines for energy planning at parastatal and at Government
level, and preparing recomnnendations to GDvernment on energy policy issues.
Government's Energy Sector Objectives and Strategy
1.16      Government's objectives in the Energy Sector are to minimize the
impact of the high cost and the instability in supply of imported oil and
coal, develop a sustainable wood energy program which can meet the future
need for fuelwood and poles while conserving the indigenous forest and
environment, and increase the supply of low cost electricity to meet the



demands of the economic and social development of the country. Government's
strategy to achieve ches.e objectives are: (a) improving policy for petroleum
supply and distribution, including the establishment of national reserves;
(b) encouraging the production of ethanol for blending in transport fuel;
(c) encouraging international companies to explore for and develop
petroleum; (d) exploring for and undertaking coal mining activity in the
country; (e) encouraging conservation and increased wood production by the
private sector and more efficient utilization of existing wood resources
including convetsion of industrial forest thinnings to charcoal; (f)
undertaking studies of least cost power development options and determining
a least cost power development plan; and (g) strengthening energy
institutions and Government's capability for energy planning and
coordination through training and technical assistance.
1.17      In the area of commercial energy, Government has initiated
appropriate action in pursuit of these strategies. EPU is coordinating
energy planning at Government level. PCC has been established to supervise
petroleum supply, distribution and procurement policies. Coal production is
contributing to reduce coal imports and has the aim of eventually
substituting all imports of coal. Ethanol blending with petroleum is
reducing petroleum product imports. A least cost power development study
has been completed and updated by the Government. The actions Government is
taking will be further enhanced with the realization of the Energy I
Project.
1.18   The Government has also developed a variety of initiatives for the
management of wood energy on a cost-effective and environmentally
sustainable basis. These include measuree to promote tree planting by
smallholders and estates through provision of subsidized seedlings,
extension services and tree planting incentive payments. A pilot project to
convert pine thinnings into charcoal in the large Viphya Forest in the
North, using improved charcoaling techniques, is attracting potential
markets in the urban household sector, tobacco estates and industry. The
Government is disseminating simple but more fuel-efficient technologies for
tobacco curing, charcoal making and domestic cooking stoves. The Government
is also implementing substantial increases in wood royalties, and
improvements in the system for revenue collection and protection and
management of the natural forest. The forestry institutions are being
strengthened to enable them to carry out the program satisfactorily. The
proposed Energy I Project will continue to support the Government's strategy
in this sector.
Experience with Past and Ongoing Lending
1.19      The World Bank has made three Credits and one loan for power to
Malawi. The first IDA credit (178-MAI) for US$ 5.25 million made in 1970
helped to finance the foreign exchange costs of the first stage of Tedzani
hydroelectric development. A second IDA credit (426-MAI) of US$ 7.5 million
was made in 1973 to help in financing the second stage of Tedzani Falls
development as well as the 15MW standby gas turbine plant in Blantyre. The
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) assisted with an additional
amount of US$6 million. The third loan/credit made in April 1977 had three
components. The first component (Loan 1387-MAI) of US$ 9 millio:A was
supplemented by a second loan (No. 1388-MAI) of US$ 8 million and a credit



- 6 -
(No. 391-MAI) of US$ 8 million. The total loan of US$ 25 million was used
in financing the foreign portion of the civil works construction of Nkula B
hydroelectric power station. The electro-mechanical equipment of the US$ 82
million 88MW project was financed by CDC, African Development Bank (AFDB)
and Kreditansalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW).  The World Bank also provided a
Special Project Preparation Facility in 1986 to carry out a least cost power
development study, demand forecasting and load management and energy
efficiency studies, which have all been completed.
1.20       Technical Assistance II financed by Credit 1428-MAI assisted the
Government in establishing and strengthening a planning unit in the
Department of Planning and Development of the Office of the President as
well as in woodfuel conservation in the tobacco industry. The first Bank
group assistance to the forestry sub-sector was Credit 992-MAI (US$13.8
million) under the National Rural Development Program (NRDP) II (First Wood
Energy) Project which began in 1980. The main focus of the Project was on
establishing Government fuelwood plantations of fast-growing exotic species
close to urban areas and setting up a network of retail nurseries to sell
seedlings to farmers. The second phase of the wood energy program was the
Second Wood Energy Project (Loan 2670 - US$16.7 million) which became
effective at the end of 1986. The principal objective of the Project is to
reorient the Forestry Department away from direct production of wood and
towards the creation of an institutional and policy environment that
encourages private wood production and conservation and more efficient
utilization of existing resources. Implementation of Wood Energy II is
proceeding satisfactorily. However, given Malawi's current external debt
situation, the Bank and Government have agreed that IBRD financing is no
longer appropriate and have decided to cancel the loan. The main components
of the Wood Energy II Project were reappraised and are Included with some
modifications under the proposed Energy I Credit.
1.21            The Project Completion Report for Credit 691-MAI, Loans 1387
and 1388-MAI referred to above (para 1.18) concludes that the main
objectives of the projects have been achieved, contributing significantly to
efficient and reliable power supply in Malawi. Institution building efforts
have had a marked influence on the operations of ESCOM. The lessons
identified emphasized the following points: (i) the need to make due
allowances for impact of Malawi's transport difficulties on project
implementation schedules and on cost estimates; (ii) the impact of bad rock
conditions even on short tunnels; and (iii) the influence of economic
development and price increases on load forecasts. The positive role an
experienced consultant can play in averting delays through changes in
project design and construction methods is also highlighted in the report.
The proposed Project provides for confirmatory drilling along the route of
the proposed short tunnel and in the power house area (Annex 5.1). The
Summary Implementation Schedule (Annex 5.4) assumes total transport time of
4 months (compared to a recent experience of less than two months) for
delivery of major machinery and equipment. The sensitivity of power demand
growth to GDP changes has been investigated by the consultant and reviewed
in this report (para. 3.06). The proposed Project also provides for an
electricity tariff study in which the impact a possible tariff increase on
growth of demand would be analysed. According to the Project Completion
Report for the National Rural Development Program (NRDP) II (First Wood
Energy) Project, the achievements of the Project were rather disappointing



due to its emphasis on Government plantations which proved to have poor wood
yields and high establishment costs. Further, seedling sales from the
retail nurseries were rather low, due partly to the lack of tree planting
extension services to smallholders but mainly because farmers did not find
tree planting financially attractive given the low producer prices for wood
and availability of free wood in the virtually uncontrolled and unprotected
natural forest. The lessons learned under the first Project were
incorporated into the design of the Second Wood Energy Project, which was
reappraised in July 1988 for inclusion as a component of the proposed Energy
I Credit.
II. THE BORROWER AND THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
The Borrower
2.01     The Government of Malawi would be the Borrower of the proposed IDA
credit of SDR 34.8 million (US$46.7 million equivalent).
2.02     The proceeds of the credit would be used as follows: US$31.9
million would be on-lent to ESCOM at the current IBRD rate (paras. 5.16 and
5.17) to finance the foreign exchange costs of the power components of the
project; US$ 1.0 million would be spent by the Forestry Department under
the Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources for the charcoal production
and marketing components of the project; US$13.3 million would also be
spent by the Forestry Department under the Ministry of Forestry and Natural
Resources for the wood energy component; and US$0.5 million would be
assigned to the Energy Planning Unit (EPU) in the Economic Planning and
Development (EP&D) under the Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC) to
carry out the energy pricing study (para 5.17).
The Implementing Agencies
Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi (ESCOM)
2.03      Institut'onal Framework.  ESCOM is a state owned corporation
(parastatal) established by the Electricity Act of 1963 when it took over
the assets, liabilities and staff of the Nyasaland Electricity Supply
Commission. ESCOM is the sole producer of electricity which it generates,
transmits and distributes to the public. ESCOM exercises control on
electricity produced by others (small captive plants for self consumption)
by its influential role in the licensing of other suppliers.
2.04      ESCOM's Board consists of a Chairman and eight members, including
two ex-officio members. The two ex-officio members are the Secretary to the
Treasury and the Secretary of the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism
(MTIT), the parent ministry. The six other members, representing most
interest grcups of the Malawi society, consist of the CDC representative in
Lilongwe, the Secretary of Community Services, the General Manager of the



Reserve Bank, a partner of an accountant firm, an officer of the Bureau of
Standards and a business man. The Board of Directors are appointed by the
President for a two year term.
2.05      The principal entity responsible for the oversight of ESCOM (and
all parastatals) is the Department of Statutory Bodies (DSB). The reporting
framework of ESCOM is shown in Annex 2.1. DSB was created in 1980 under the
Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC) as a central unit to assist
parastatals in financial management, planning and staffing as well as to act
as an oversight agency for parastatals activities. DSB's principal focus to
date has been on the review of ESCOM's budget in coordination with EPU,
prior to submission to the Ministry oi Finance, and on administrative
decisions, especially those affecting personnel hiring, firing, salaries,
fringe benefits, travel, vehicle use, technical assistance and the like.
EPU's principal function is to coordinate an' review all energy projects,
including those in the power sub-sector, and to establish their economic
viability at a macro level. ESCOM's parent ministry is the Ministry of
Trade, Industry and Tourism (MTIT) and its Principal Secretary sits on
ESCOM's Board (para. 2.04). MTIT is consulted on projects under
implementation, major new investments and tariff issues and represents
ESCOM's interest in Cabinet meetings. Final approval of investments
requiring loans and/or Government guarantee for borrowed funds as well as
tariff increases are made by the Ministry of Finance which works closely
with DSB.
2.06      Under the present arrangement, most decisions made at Board levels
are referred to Government authorities for final approval, which tends to
undermine the powers of the Board. Furthermore, DSB's involvement in
ESCOM's activities has become excessive over the years with apparently no
major positive impact, since it tends to focus on bureaucratic details at
the expense of bigger issues, insufficient attention is paid to efficiency
and there is over-centralization of decisions which might better be made at
other levels.
2.07      The Government recognizes the weakness of the present
institutional arrangement and has, with Bank and UNDP assistance, identified
reforms which are expected to be implemented within the next year. Unde:
the proposed system, DSB's role would be mainly that of monitoring and
evaluating results, while giving ESCOM's Board and management the autonomy
to decide on administrative matters and to react flexibly to changing
circumstances. In particular, ESCOM's management with the approval of the
Board would be given the authority to set renumerations for its staff, hire,
fire, promote and take disciplinary actions without Government interference
(para. 2.10). ESCOM's annual as well as medium term budget, capital
investment program and tariff proposals would be submitted to DSB prior to
seeking approval by the Ministry of Finance. EPU would continue to liaise
with DSB on the economic viability of ESCOM's capital investment program.
The parent ministry's role would remain the same (para. 2.05). With the
implementation of the institutional reform program, it is expected that
DSB's new role would be legalized under an Act and that ESCOM's Act along
with other parastatals would be revised accordingly. During negotiations,
it was agreed with the Government that the views of IDA shall be taken into
consideration prior to implementing any reform in ESCOM.



- 9 -
2.08      Management and Staffing.  ESCOM is a well managed utility with
experienced and competent staff in its senior management positions. The
post of General Manager, approved by the Minister, has been filled by an
expatriate since the establishment of ESCOM, except for the last two years
when a Malawian national (the Deputy General Manager) has been acting as
General Manager pending recruitment of an expatriate. Government has plans
to train and appoint a Malawian to the post as soon as feasible. Of the
three senior managers reporting to the General Manager through his deputy,
namely the Financial Controller, Chief Engineer and Commission Secretary,
one (the Financial Controller) is an expatriate. The posts of Deputy
General Manager and the senior managers are approved by the Secretary to the
President and Cabinet (SPC) after a selection committee has been formed to
advise on the appointment. ESCOM's organizational structure is shown in
Annex 2.2.
2.09      ESCOM's total staff at the end of 1987 was 2,475, including 772
temporary laborers. Of the 169 senior positions, only four were occupied by
expatriates including the Financial Controller. Through a well considered
training program, the number of expatriates has been gradually reduced from
25 to 4 over the last ten years. For an electricity supply undertaking of
ESCOM's size, a staff of 2,475 is rather high. Efforts are being made to
control staff additions and ESCOM plans to release about 400 temporary
laborers by end 1988 who will no longer be needed. The success of these
efforts will be monitored through performance indicators shown in Annex 2.3.
2.10      ESCOM has difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified staff
in the field of accounting and finance due to the low salary scale in ESCOM
compared to the private sector. 5/ Attracting and retaining qualified
engineers also appear to be problems but to a lesser extent since their
demand in the private sector is more limited. It is estimated that the
salary of senior accountants in ESCOM is about 55? of the salary of a senior
accountant in a mid-sized private firm. The effe-t of this differential is
a loss of skilled senior accountants to the private sector and lack of
suitable candidates to groom for the post of Financial Controller. The top
financial positiorn in ESCOM has therefore always been filled by an
expatriate who is not subject to the same limits. With the implementation
of the Government's reform program, ESCOM would be allowed to reward its
staff according to performance and set salary scales more competitive with
the private sector (para. 2.07). In the future, therefore, it is expected
that ESCOM would be able to retain its qualified accounting and finance
staff.
2.11      Planning and EngineerinR.   Planning is presently a part time
function within the engineering unit and performed by an engineer (the head
of the unit) and a statistician. Apart from preparing programs for ESCOM's
new projects, the engineer and statistician are also involved in procurement
activities and in design and specification of distribution works. ESCOM is
in the process of hiring an economist and establishing a separate planning
unit, making the planning function into a full time activity. The planning
unit will prepare load forecasts on a monthly basis, design and analyze the
5/Salary scales for all parastatals, including ESCOM, are standardized by
the Government.



- 10 -
technical and economic aspect of distribution expansion and together with
consultants, prepare least cost power investment programs. In order to
sttengthen the planning unit, three of ESCOM's staff (two engineers and an
eco,iomist) will receive training at a consultant's office abroad for a
period of three to six months each. Financing of this training is provided
by UNDP.
2.12      ESCOM has developed expertise in the design and construction of
distribution lines and distribution sul-stations and would be able to carry
out this part of their investment program in-house. With the use of
engineering consultants, ESCOM's staff is competent to carry out the
proposed project. To ensure the continuation of ESCOM's management
capability, new appointments to the positions of General Manager, Deputy
General Manager, Financial Controller, Chief Engineer and Commission
Secretary would not be made before taking into consideration the views
expressed by IDA on the proposed appointments.
2.13      Training.  ESCOM has a training center for distribution artisans
where presently 12 of ESCOM staff are in attendance. Training in other
fields is catered for by local institutions or abroad. Presently two
engineers are receiving specialized training in the field of power system
protection at GEC and Brown Boveri in Europe; three engineers are attending
post graduate courses abroad in power engineering; and two of ESCOM's staff
will be studying abroad next year for under graduate degrees in electrical
engineering. Most of ESCOM's engineers and technicians are now being
recruited from the University of Malawi and the utility's policy is to
provide on-the-job training for the technicians and send abroad about three
engineers per year for specialized training.
2.14      On the finance side, ESCOM sponsors two students per year
(graduates from the prestigious Kamuzu Academy) for studies leading to a
degree in accounting and for employment in ESCOM upon successful completion
of their studies. One of ESCOM's accountants is studying abroad for
professional accounting qualifications. Several of ESCOM's staff are
pursuing part time courses in fields relevant to the utility at local
institutions and get their fees reimbursed by ESCOM upon successful
completion of their courses.
2.15      ESCOM's training program is well prepared and relevant to the
utility's needs. However, ESCOM needs to develop expertise in planning,
engineering design and in preparing feasibility studies. While three of
ESCOM's staff will receive training in planning under UNDP financing (para.
2.11), the proposed Project provides for on the job training with
consultants, contractors and suppliers (para. 5.20 and Annex 5.1). ESCOM
will continue to finance training provided locally from its own revenues.
2.16      Insurance and Taxes.  ESCOM has adequate insurance coverage for
its dams, plants and equipment against the risks of machinery breakdown,
fire, loss, and damage in transit and public liability. ESCOM is exempt
from the levy of import duties on materials, equipment and machinery
financed by foreign lenders but is liable for import duties of about 30? on
goods (mostly line materials) financed through its own sources. ESCOM is
liable for corporate taxes of 50? on its income. However, with capital
investment allowances of 45-55? per year (carried forward) on new projects



- 11 -
in operation, ESCOM does not expect to pay corporate taxes until 1993.
ESCOM is not subject tc dividend payments to the Government.
Energy Planning Unit (EPU)
2.17       EPU, headed by a principal economibt and assisted by an Energy
Advisor (financed by UNDP), is the planning organ of the Government on
energy matters. The unit, formally established in 1983, consists of four
economists, of which two are presently on long term study programs abroad.
The energy pricing study (excluding electricity tariffs) would be carried
out by consultants reporting to EPU. During negotiations, it was agreed
that the two vacant positions of principal and senior economists in EPU will
be filled prior to disbursing IDA funds to finance the energy study.
2.18      The Government was assisted by IDA funding of an expatriate Energy
Advisor for a period of two years ending June 30, 1988, and a UNDP grant
from July through September 1988. To strengthen EPU's future role (para
1.15) and to ensure sustainability of planning operations by EPU, the
Government would require an Energy Advisor for a further period of two
years. UNDP is expected to provide an additional grant for energy planning
and training (para 5.06).
The Forestry Department
2.19      The Forestry Department was reorganized under the Second Wood
Energy Project to enable it to implement the Government's comprehensive
program for the management of wood energy. The new Organization Chart is
shown in Annex 2.2. Under the Chief Forestry Officer, who is the head of
the overall Forestry Department, are three Deputy Chief Forestry Officers
who head the three main divisions: Forestry Development, Forestry Extension
and Forestry Support Services. The Project Coordinator for the Second Wood
Energy Project is also the head of the Forestry Extension Division which
includes the Project's core activities such as management and protection of
the indigenous forest on customary lands, revenue collection, extension,
retail nurseries, small holders tree planting incentive scheme, government
fuelwood plantations, project accounting and staffing. The units for
Monitoring and Evaluation and Planning and the research and training
components of the Project are under the Forestry Support Services Division.
The ongoing program to strengthen the implementation capabilities of the
Forestry Department, which will be continued under the proposed project, is
described in para 4.13 to 4.21. An enhanced training program will be
implemented by the Malawi College of Forestry. An expanded research program
will be carried out by the Forestry Research Institute of Malawi in close
cooperation with staff from the Forestry Department and from the
Agricultural Research Department. During negotiations agreement was reached
that the post of Project Co-ordinator established under the Second Wood
Energy Project will be maintained under the Energy I Project, with terms of
reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA.



- 12 -
III. THE ENERGY MARKET
The Electricity Market
3.01       Historical.  The 1970's was a period of high real income growth
(6Z per annum) and this was reflected in high electricity growth rates which
averaged 11.7X during the period 1970 - 1979. Reflecting the economic and
transportation problems experienced during the 1980's, both the real GDP and
the power consumption growth rates dropped significantly over the period
1980 to 1987 (in 1981 the electricity growth rate was -2.4Z). In that
period electricity consumption grew at an -erege rate of only 4% per annum
and real GDP at 1.4Z.  For the 1980's the   -ome elasticity for electricity
demand is estimated at 2.9.
3.02       Annex 3.1 gives the historical growth in public electricity sales
in Malawi. In 1987 the interconnected system accounted for 99.8% of total
electricity sales. The main electricity consumption centers are Blantyre
accounting for 41.3% of 1987 sales and Lilongwe accounting for 27.7Z. Zomba
accounts for only 6.7X of sales. The four largest consumers (Sucoma Sugar
Estates, Blantyre Water Board, Portland Cement, David Whitehead Textiles)
account for 32% of the total sales and 19% of the peak load in the grid
system or almost two thirds of the industrial sales of ESCOM. The
residential sales have two categories. The low density residential sales
represent the high ranking civil servants and expatriates. The high density
consumers represent the remaining residential consumers. Although they are
about equal in number, the low density account for about 84% of the
residential 1987 electricity sales. Table 3.1 gives the breakdown of sales
by consumer categories.
Table 3.1
Pattern of Demand for Electricity (GWh)
and Forecasted Growth Rates a/
Annual Growth Rate. N
1970    1975    1980    1987    70-87   89-94 1989-2000
Residential
Low Density                  20.33   33.19   46.49   64.55      7.0     7.1     8.3
X of Total               17.7    14.2    13.1    13.9      --      --
High Density                  1.37    5.47    7.96   12.49    14.4      9.6     8.0
X of Total                1.1    2.3      2.3    2.7       --      --
Commercial                   19.91   24.04   37.70   68.27     7.e      9.8    11.1
X of Total               17.4    10.3    10.8    14.7      --      --
Small Industries             19.84   67.78   90.62  170.91      7.6     9.1    10.9
X of Total               17.3    24.6    26.0    86.7      --      --
Large Industries             62.10  112.58  184.94  149.30    18.6      3.1     2.6
X of Total               45.4    48.0    47.4    32.0      --      --
Exports                       1.28    1.46    1.86      --     8.4      2.7     2.7
X of Total                1.1     0.6     0.4      --      --      --
Total                        114.73  234.62  847.96  486.62     8.8     7.3     8.6
X of Total              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0      --      --
= =    = _- =
*/ ESCOM's interconnected system only.



- 13 -
3.03      Demand Proiections.  In 1984, TAMS completed a study on the least
cost power development program. 6/ This study included a power market
survey and electricity demand projections. These projections were updated
in 1986 and subsequently in 1987 by Kennedy and Donkin. 7/ The base case
demand projections assume GDP growth rates of 2.32 for 1987, 3.2Z for 1988,
3.51 for 1989, 3.9X for 1990 and 4.62 for 1991. Thereafter GDP is projected
to grow at about 42 per annum. These GDP figures were given by the
Government.
3.04      The forecast methodology involved a combination of detailed
analysis of the factors influencing the historical demand. A comprehensive
market survey particularly of the industrial consumers was carried out by
the consultant. Measurements were taken to derive load shapes, load factor
and coincidence factors for each of the main consumer category and
allowances were made for system losses. During 1989-94, the demand for the
residential consumers is expected to grow at the rate of 7.12 for the low
density and 9.52 for the high density consumers (Table 3.1). Commercial
demand will grow at 7.82, small industries at 7.52 and large industries at
3.1X, resulting in a total anticipated growt'h rate of 8.6Z for the grid
system. The base case scenario forecast is given in Annex 3.2. The
consultants have also considered low and high scenarios (Annex 3.2). The
low scenario for maximum demand gives an overall average growth rate of 5.52
for the period 1989-2000 (3.72 for 1989-94), and the high scenario 10.9Z
(7.62 for 1989-95); compared to 9.22Z (6.82 for 1989-94) for the base case
scenario. Demand growth would be mainly due to small industries, and
commercial and residential consumers.
3.05      More recent analysis by IDA staff in co-operation with the
Government indicate that the GDP growth assumptions for the base case
scenario should be revised as below:
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
Consultants       2.3   3.2   3.5   3.9   4.6   4.0   4.0   4.2
IDA              -0.2   1.5   4.0   4.3   4.6   4.9   5.1   5.1
3.06      This revision in the GDP growth will not affect the base case load
projections significantly. Variations in the system demand will be within
the confidence level of 52 and the timing of the proposed units (para 3.07)
will remain unchanged. However, if demand grows following the unlikely low
scenario forecast (para 3.04), corresponding to GDP growth of 22 in 1988
increasing to 3.22 by 1996, the commissioning date of Tedzani III would be
postponed from 1994 to about 1996/97.
6/ Power Development Study, Phase 1: Least Cost Solution February 1985, by
TAMS (Tippets- Abbet- McCarthy- Stratton), Engineers, Architects and
Planners.
7/ Study to Update ESCOM's Least Cost Development Program, April 1988,
Kennedy and Donkin Power Systems Ltd.



- 14 -
3.07      Capacity and Generation Balances.  The base case scenario for
maximum demand is frojected to increase from about 106MW in 1988 to about
158MW in 1994 and 210MW in 1997. The generation requirement will increase
from about 592 GWh in 1988 to 873 GWh in 1994 and 1254 GWh in 1998.
However, the appraisal mission considers Kennedy and Donkin's assumption for
the rate of reduction of percentage losses optimistic and has made upward
adjustments to the maximum demand and generation figures (Annex 2.3). The
grid system's dependable capacity is currently constrained at 140MW. This
includes the 15MW gas turbine in Blantyre. The dependable energy capability
is estimated at 860 GWh. Kennedy and Donkin have concluded that the fifth
20MW unit at Nkula B should be commissioned by 1991 and two 25MW units at
Tedzani III by 1994. Commissioning of Kapichira would be needed by 1997.
These conclusions are apparent from Annex 3.3.
3.08      Firm dependable generation capacity has been detenmined from
operational records for existing hydroplants (Annex 3.3). Firm energy is
based on Shire's firm flow of 136 m3/sec given in TAMS' study. 8/ During
the period 1989-92, the generation capacity balance for the existing system
shows surpluses ranging from 19 to 4Z for the base scenario, and increasing
deficits beginning from 1993. Capacity deficits will begin in 1993 for the
base scenario, 1997 for the low and 1992 for the high scenarios. Energy
requirements will be met by the output of the existing plants up to 1993 for
the base, 1997 for the low and 1994 for the high scenario. The planned
additional installation of new generating units will provide additional
capacity and generation surpluses for the base scenario up to 1995. (There
will be deficits from 1994 through 2000 for the high scenario.) However,
the hydro system capability is based on the extreme case of 1 in 80
probability for the availability of water and the possible output of the
existing gas turbine plant is not included. In the event of consecutive dry
years commencing from early 1990's, options considered include: (i)
construction of a thermal plant; (ii) interconnection with a neighboring
country; and (iii) dredging the channel at the beginning of the Shire river.
Dredging would provide a rapid response due to the short period needed for
its implementation and would also be the least cost solution. Under average
year conditions, the system would have surplus energy, the possible
utilization of which would be evaluated together with the tariff study
included in the Project.
The Fuelvood Market
3.09      The major consumers of wood are tabulated in Table 4.1.  The
estimated total fuelwood consumption for 1984 is 8.6 million m3. The rural
population uses fuelwood for cooking and heating as well as poles for
building, and accounts for around 60Z of the total demand. Urban
households, who utilize mainly charcoal, account for a further 10Z. The
tobacco and tea industries utilize most of the balance of wood consumption
for curing and barn construction. Demand for fuelwood is increasing rapidly
due to population growth of around 3.7Z per annum, compounded in recent
8/ ESCOM Power Development Study, Least Cost Solution Volume I, by TAMS
(Tippetts-Abbat-McCarthy-Stratton), November 1984.



- 15 -
years by an influx of several hundred thousand refugees from Mozambique.
The urbar, population with 75? higher specific fuelwood consumption than the
rural population is growing at over 62 a year. Under current trends it is
estimated that the indigenous forest on customary land will have totally
disappeared within less than ten years in the South and less than fifteen
years in the Central Region. This has very serious long run implications
for energy supply and the environment.  The Government's objective is,
therefore, to deve:op a sustainable wood energy program that can meet the
future need for fuelwood and poles while conserving the natural forest and
the environment (see Chapter 4).
3.10     The market potential for softwood charcoal for 1988/89 is estimated
by IPC 9/ at about 18,000 tons per annum taking market penetration into
account. About 77? of this demand is accounted for by the industrial
sector, and the remainder by the tobacco estates and households.
Substantial increases are anticipated in subsequent years. On the basis of
a refugee population of 526,000, IPC has (in a separate UNDP sponsored
study) 10/ also estimated a potential demand of about 20,000 tpy for
household fuel use by the Mozambican refugees, together with 105,000
charcoal stoves. The total estimate for supplying the refugees for a period
of three and one half years is US$18,169,000, of which 40? is accounted for
by transport costs. The Project provides for consultancy services to assist
in the further enhancement of charcoal production and marketing and in
providing advice to Government to meet the household fuel demands of
refugees.
Existing Energy Sector Facilities and Sources
Existing Power Facilities
3.12     Generation System.  ESCOM's main system is an interconnected system
supplied by hydroelectric power plants, with total installed capacity of
145MW, on the Shire river. A 15MW gas turbine plant in Blantyre, a 5.4MW
diesel plant in Lilongwe and a 2.2MW diesel plant in Mzuzu serve as standby,
and are located at the extreme ends of the relatively long transmission
lines. Almost 99.9? of the energy is supplied by the hydroelectric power
plants. The northern township of Karonga is supplied by a 560KW isolated
diesel station. The generation facilities of ESCOM are summarizea on the
next page in Table 3.4 and are specified in Annex 3.4. The attached map
(IBRD Map No. 20917R) shows the location of existing and planned power
plants and the transmission facilities of ESCOM. Rural electrification
9/ Solid Fuels in Malawi, Options and Constraints for Charcoal and Coal
(Vol II Charcoal) by Interdisziplinare Project Consult (IPC) (Nov. 1987).
10/ Fuel Supply for Displaced persons in Malawi Preliminary Draft, June
1988, by IPC.



- 16 -
schemes are implemented by extending the grid where such extensions are
proven to be financially viable. Such schemes are implemented only if they
can cover their expenses and concessionary funds are available for the
capital costs of the extensions.
Table 3.4
ESCOM's Generating Capacity in 1987
Type of       Installed    Dependable   Production  Dependable
Plant       Capacity MW  Capacity MW       GWh         GWh
Hydro                    144.6        130.0(a)   560.4         860.0 (b)
Standby diesels            8.0           --         0.5            --
Standby gas
turbine                 15.0         12.0          --           --
Total               167.6        142.0       560.9        860.0
(a) Assumes 25 MW reserve.
(b) Based on 136 m3/sec and 92% availabilit.y.
3.13       A number of tobacco and sugar estates a'id religious missions
produce electricity for their own use. The installed capacity is estimated
at about 26MW. About 50% of this capacity uses bagasse from the sugar
estates. The remaining capacity is diesel based. A summary list of the
private plants is given in Annex 3.4. Where viable, the grid system is
being extended by ESCOM to replace the diesel based captive plants.
3.14       Nkula A hydroelectric plant with an installed capacity of 3x8MW,
was commissioned in 1966 and 1967. Nkula B (4x2OMW) is the latest power
plant, with the fourth unit of 20MW commissioned in 1986. Nkula A station
is due for major overhaul following over 20 years of reliable service. Due
to cavitation the turbine runners may require either reconditioning or
replacement.   Test on one generator has given a good indication of the
condition of the insultaion. Additional checks on the remaining two units
and special tests on all will be needed to establish the need for
rehabilitation measures on the generators. The 4 x 10 MW Tedzani units,
commissioned in 1973 (2 x 10 MW), 1976 (1 x 10 MW) and 1977 (1 x 10 MW)
respectively, are showing deterioration in frequency of unplanned outages
due to the design of the cooling water system, instability of turbine
governors and damaged automatic voltage regulators. Recommendations for
rehabilitation have been made by a separate study. 11/   The Project makes
provision for Tedzani and ESCOM is getting assistance for Nkula A, possibly
from EIB and other sources.
11/ Capacity Utilization Study Kennedy and Donkin, 1986.



- 17 -
3.15       Load Dispatch Center.  ESCOM has a load dispatch center, located
in Blantyre. The center monitors, records and controls the generation
plants and the 132/66/33kV substations with the help of the SCADA (System
Control and Data Acquisition) system.  Under the Project the Load Dispatch
Center will be extended to respond to the planned expansion of the
generation and transmission systems. Additional power line carrier
equipment will be installed.
3.16       Transmission and Distribution Systems.  ESCOM's transmission
system consists of about 228km of 132kV and about 1063km of 66kV lines.  The
backbone of the distribution network consists of 1352km of 33kV and 1734km
of llkV overhead lines with additional 49km and 5Okm of underground cables
respectively. The substation transformer capacity, excluding generation
stations, totals 201MVA. The corresponding figure for distribution
transformer capacity is 305MVA which appears low in relation to installed
generating capacity. Most of the 66kV transmission and the distribution
network use locally impregnated wooden poles.
3.17       Outages of the transmission and distribution systems are
comparatively low relative to many African countries. However, for the
capital city of Lilongwe, some 250km away from the generation centers, and
some of the big industries, interruptions of the main lines from Nkula would
result in load shedding or low voltages, there being insufficient standby
generation capacity. The 66kV lines are designed for 132kV and uprating the
portion of the line from Salima to Lilongwe, which is included in the
investment program will improve the quality and the reliability of supply to
the northern region. The capacity of this line will reach its limit by 1990
if present demand trends of the northern region continue. The investment
program provides for an additional 132kV line to Lilongwe, for commissioning
by 1992.  The Government and ESCOM are seeking financing for the
construction of this line. Further extensions of the transmission and
subtransmission lines require detailed study with regard to voltage and
short circuit levels, protection coordination, and active and reactive load
flows. The proposed Project provides funds for a transmission system study.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that prior to December 31, 1989,
ESCOM and the Government will conclude financing arrangements for the 132 kV
line from Nkula to Lilongwe.
3.18       The system losses of ESCOM were reasonable at under 1OZ up to
about 1980. Since then, however, the losses have been growing at an
increasing rate and presently stand at the high figure of 16.52 (Annex 3.4).
The losses have increased much faster than the square of the maximum demand
for an eight year period ending 1987. It is thus evident that non -
technical losses are contributing appreciably (some 2 - 4Z) to the total
losses of 16.5Z in 1987. ESCOM also attributes most of the increase to non-
technical losses and is taking administrative steps to reduce their impact.
There are also identified overloaded distribution networks particularly in
Blantyre and Lilongwe. The investment program provides funds for
reinforcement. A loss reduction study needs to be cerried out before
embarking on a major investment for distribution and subtransmission network
reinforcement. ESCOM's investment program for 1989-94 provides for
transmission expansion to Lilongwe which would contribute to reduction of
losses at transmission level. ESCOM's general development also provides for
distribution expansion to meet the growing load in ESCOM's distribution



- 18 -
system. The proposed Project provides for a transmission and distribution
system study, and technical assistance support would be provided by ESMAP in
establishing the methodology for a loss reduction study.
Existing Sources of Woodfuel
3.19    Table 4.2 shows that indigenous forest on customary lands accounts
for almost 77? of total forest area of Malawi, followed by forest reserves
(212), with the remainder accounted 'or by government and private
plantations. Gazetted forest reserves, Game Reserves and National Parks are
protected by the Forest Department (FD) and only limited wood cutting is
licensed. Forests on customary land supply the bulk of woodfuel currently
utilized. The productivity of the national forest is very low and it is
being depleted very rapidly, particularly in the South. Wood is free for
domestic use. Commercial cutting is theoretically subject to licensing and
payment of stumpage fees, however widespread illegal cutting occurs. The FD
is currently setting up an improved system for revenue collection and
protection and management of the natural forest. industral plantations,
established and managed by the FD, are located mostly in the Northern Region
of the country (e.g. the 53,100 Viphya pine plantations) and up till now
have been largely unutilized.
IV. WOOD ENERGY
Background
4.01       Forests play a vital role in the Malawian economy, providing over
901 of the nation's domestic and industrial energy requirements, a
substantial volume of timber and significant environmental benefits. The
major consumers of wood are presented in Table 4.1 below. The rural
population uses fuelwood for cooking and heating as well as poles for
building, and accounts for around 602 of the total demand. The principal
source of energy for urban households is charcoal, which is made from
indigenous wood using very inefficient conversion methods. The tobacco and
tea industries, which represent Malawi's chief sources of foreign exchange
earnings, are critically dependent on large supplies of fuelwood for curing
and barn construction. In addition, village industries within the informal
sector use wood for a variety of purposes, including brick making, smoking
of fish and meat, beer brewing and lime burning.
TABLE 4.1.
Estimated Wood Consumption, 1984
Market Segment                Consumption
(million m3)             (Z)
Rural Households                5.1                      60
Urban Households                1.0                      11
Tobacco and Tea Estates         2.0                      23
Village Industries              0.4                       5
Urban Services and Industry   0.1                         1
TOTAL                           8.6                     100



- 19 -
4.02     In aggregate, Malawi's total forest resource is still extensive,
occupying about 402 of the total land area. In 1987, approximately 4
million hectares were estimated to be under forest (see Table 4.2).
Indigenous forest on customary lands accounts for around 77% of this area,
followed by forest reserves (212) with the remainder accounted for by
government and private plantations. National parks and game reserves occupy
a further 1 million hectares   However, less than 2Z of the parks and game
reserves are under closed forest cover and they cannot really be considered
as a source of woodfuel as they are protected to provide an undisturbed
environment for the natural fauna and flora. The forest reserves are also
protected by the Forestry Department and only very limited cutting is
licensed. The natural forests on customary lands supply the bulk of
woodfuel currently utilized. These forests have very low stock value and
low sustained yield, due partly to local ecological conditions but also to
indiscriminate cutting and uncontrolled burning for pasture and browsing by
animals. Cultivated wood represents only around 2? of the total forest
area. Government plantations cover about 90,000 hectares, of which about
80? are industrial pulpwood and timber plantations, 15? are fuelwood/poles
plantations and the remaining 5? are research plots. Private plantations
include about 10,000 hectares on tea estates which are more or less self-
sufficient in wood, around 10,000 hectares on some tobacco estates which are
far from self-sufficient, and an unknown area of smallholder woodlots.
TABLE 4.2
Distribution of-Population and Forest Resources by Region, 1981
Northern    Central      Southern
Population (million)            0.91         3.11          3.96
Forests (million hectares):
indigenous:
On Customary Land          1.64         0.91           0.50
Forest Reserves            0.20         0.33          0.29
Cultivated
Government Plantations    0.05          0.02           0.02
Private Plantations        -            0.01          0.01
4.03     Recent estimates suggest that, in aggregate, current global flows
would be sufficient to meet actual demand for wood without depletion of the
forest stock (footnote 12). However, this aggregate picture hides very
significant regional imbalances in supply and demand. The basic problem
stems from the highly unequal geographical distribution of population which
is concentrated in the South and Central Regions while the bulk of the
forests are in the relatively underpopulated North (see Table 4.2). In the
South and much of the Central region there is now a substantial gap between
the demand for fuelwood and its sustainable supply from customary woodlands.
This deficit is being met by depletion of the stocks which further widens
the gap between demand and the sustainable flow of wood, leading to ever
more rapid destruction of stocks. At the same time, demand for wood energy
is increasing rapidly due to population growth of around 3.7? per annum,
compounded in recent years by an influx of several hundred thousand refugees



- 20 -
from Mozambique. The urban population is growing at over 62 a year which
further increases demand because wood consumption per capita is higher in
urban areas (1.4 m31yr) than in rural areas (0.8 m3/yr). Deforestation is
exacerbated by widespread land clearing for agricultural purposes, due to
population pressure and the traditional practice of shifting cultivation.
Under current trends it is estimated .hat the indigenous forest on customary
land will have totally disappeared within less than ten years in the South
and less than fifteen years in the Central Region. 12/
4.04     Destruction of the forestry resource would have serious
implications for the future energy supply for the bulk of the population.
In addition, the environmental consequences would likely be severe, leading
to soil erosion and damage to watershed areas including silting up of water
courses and flooding. This would have long term negative and possibly
irreversible implications for agricultural productivity and then for
economic growth and welfare. In the last few years, therefore, the
Government has turned its attention to the development of a sustainable wood
energy program. The NRDP II (First Wood Energy) Project (CR 992-MAI) which
became effective in June 1980 represented the first important step in this
process.
4.05     Wood Energy I Project.  The principal objectives of the First Wood
Energy Project were to establish Government fuelwood plantations close to
urban areas and set up a network of retail nurseries to sell seedlings to
farmers. Between 1980 and 1987 approximately 15,000 hectares of fuelwood
plantations of eucalyptus were established by the Forestry Department.
However, the yields from these plantations are very disappointing -- the
average mean annual increment (MAI) is about 4.7 m^/halannum against a
potential 10-14 m3/ha/annum. While wood yields are low, the per hectare
costs of establishing the Government plantations are high. The ultimate
financial cost per cubic meter of wood produced is therefore extremely high
(see para 4.10). By the end of the Project period, the average seedling
production level from the retail nurseries had reached the original target,
but seedling sales remained rather low, resulting in substantial carry-over
of stock from one year to the next. Inadequate extension services to
smallholders for tree planting may provide a partial explanation for this.
Hcwever, planting trees was found to be well accepted and practised where
there existed a nearby cash market for poles. This suggests that the
problem was not that farmers did not know how to grow trees, but that they
did not find it financially attractive to grow trees for fuelwood given the
low producer prices for wood and availability of free wood in the virtually
uncontrolled and unprotected natural forests.
4.06     The reforestation effort under the First Wood Energy Project did
little to slow the destruction of the natural forest. However, the efforts
were part of a learning process which has contributed to the evolution of a
broad-based strategy for the management of wood energy on a cost-effective,
sustainable and environmentally safe basis.  The experience with Government
32/ Interdisziplinare Projekt Consult (IPC). National Energy Master Plan
Biomass Sector Position Papers (Supply and Demand Analysis and Summary
Report, 3 volumes), Lilongwe, 1988.



- 21 -
plantations demonstrated that principal reliance on the Forestry Department
to produce fuelwood is technically and fiscally infeasible, and economically
undesirable. There are severe shortages of qualified manpower in the
Forestry Department. Planting even 15,000 hectares over the last few years
overwhelmed the capacity of the staff to implement the program effectively,
yet the annual wood flow from these plantations represents less than 1Z of
total annual demand. In addition, Malawi is currently undergoing a period
of severe public expenditure cuts and hence budgetary constraints preclude
the Forestry Department planting on a sufficient scale to make a substantial
contribution to sustainable supply. Furthermore, this would be inefficient
as the Government has proved to be a very high cost producer of wood. Wood
can be produced at much lower cost by the private sector, particularly by
smallholders.
4.07     Wood Energy II Project.  The objective of the Second Wood Energv
Project (Ln 2670-MAI, US$16.7 million) is therefore to reorient the
Forestry Department away from direct production of wood and towards the
creation of an institutional and policy environment that encourages private
production and conservation and more efficient utilization of existing
resources. Under the project, the Government is implementing a
comprehensive package designed to promote tree planting by both smallholders
and commercial users, through provision of subsidized seedlings, extension
services and tree planting incentive payments, pricing reform including
substantial increases in wood prices, and increased protection and revenue
collection activities in the natural forest. Provision is also made for a
limited area of Government plantations in environmentally fragile areas.
Besides promoting tree planting, the Government is also exploring ways to
utilize existing low-cost sources of fuelwood such as thinnings and over-
mature trees from industrial plantations and waste wood from land clearing
operations. In addition, the program includes several components to promote
wood conservation through introduction of simple but more fuel-efficient
technologies for tobacco curing, charcoal making, and domestic cooking
stoves.
4.08     The Second Wood Energy Project became effective in December 1986
and to date approximately US$1.5 million have been disbursed from the loan.
Implementation of the Project is proceeding smoothly. The Forestry
Department has been reorganized to enable it to carry out its increased
responsibilities. The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit has been set up and a
computerized system put into place. A training program has been developed
and agreed on and the plans and procurement documents for the expansion of
the facilities at the Malawi College of Forestry are under preparation. The
curriculum has been modified to take into account the wider scope of work of
forestry field staff under the Project. The Planning Unit has been
established although many of the positions are still vacant and a work
program has still to be developed. A research program has been designed and
agreed on which is well focused on project objectives and does not overload
FRIM's limited implementation capacity. Under the Indigenous Forest
Management component, 44 Area Control Units have been established. Ten
Forest Produce Checkpoints have been set up at major transport roads into
Blantyre, Lilongwe and other urban centers. Six pilot extension
units were set up during 1987/88 and 3 more will be established in 1988/89.
40 new retail nurseries were established in 1987/88 and 20 more will be
established in 88/89. The tree planting incentive scheme was introduced on



- 22 -
a pilot basis in 9 districts during 1987188. The concept was accepted
enthusiastically by farmers and 3.9 million seedlings were registered for
the incentive payment in the first year. Most of the infrastructure for the
Government plantation on Mulanje mountain has been put into place and 800
hectares were established during 1987/88, with a further 500 to be
established in 1988/89. Three pilot production centers for improved
household stoves have been set up. Trials carried out under the Tobacco
Industry Energy Efficiency Pilot Project have demonstrated the wood
consumption in tobacco curing can be reduced very substantially. Pilot
charcoal production centers using more efficient kilns and waste wood from
industrial plantations have been set up and potential markets in the tobacco
estates, urban household sector and industry identified. The stumpage rate
was raised to MK4.50 per stacked m3 in 1988.
4.09     Both the Bank and the Government continue to support strongly the
objectives and elements of the Second Wood Energy Project. However,
Malawi's external debt situation has deteriorated significantly in the last
few years and neither the Bank nor the Government consider financing on IBRD
terms to be appropriate for Malawi at the present time. The Bank and the
Government have therefore decided to cancel the IBRD loan for the Second
Wood Energy Project. Under the proposed Energy I IDA Credit the components
were reappraised by a Bank mission in July 1988, modifications introduced
where appropriate, and the cost tables updated to cover the period 1989/90
to 1993/94 (see Annex 5.2). The detailed discussion of the various
components can be found in the Second Wood Energy Staff Appraisal Report
(Report No. 5914-MAI, February 1986); the main points, and any changes in
scope or design, are summarized below.
Overview of the Strategy for Wood Energy
4.10     Pricing Policy Refonm.  One of the main reasons that individuals do
not act to conserve or produce wood stems from the absence of private
ownership of trees (or at least some well-defined and enforceable system of
user rights). In Malawi, as in much of Africa, forests are traditionally
considered as open-access, common property resources. Wood for domestic
purposes is free and there are no restrictions on access. Wood for
commercial purposes is subject to a very low stumpage rate which in practice
is rarely enforced. The official stumpage rate for commercial fuelwood was
only MR1.80 (US$1.03) per stacked cubic meter of wood until March 1986, when
it was raised to MK2.70. This is extremely low in comparison to the cost of
producing wood. For example, the cost of wood produced by the Government
under the NRDP II First Wood Energy Project is estimated at around MK21.9
per stacked cubic meter (in 1986/87 prices). 13/ The low administered
stumpage rate does not provide individuals with incentives to produce their
own wood supply and also impl.4as that the Government as a major producer of
wood cannot recover its investment costs. In addition, the existing
stumpage rate encourages excessive consumption of fuelwood and leads to low
public revenues which prevent the Government from financing measures to
control forest depletion. Under the Project, the Government is implementing
a phased increase in stumpage fees for wood cut for commercial purposes with
13/ See Project Completion Report,



- 23 -
a view to reaching replacement cost by the end of 1994. The proposed Energy
Pricing Study will recommend the appropriate level of stumpage fees. The
increase in price is essential for both supply and demand management of wood
energy because it sends a signaL that wood is not a "free resource," and
should induce greater conservation through adoption of more energy-efficient
technologies as well as creating incentives for private production of wood.
4.11     Indigenous Forest Management.  The increase in stumpage fees will
clearly have no impact if payment of fees is not enfor..ed.  Therefore undcr
the Project the Government is also putting into place an improved forest
protection and revenue collection system for wood from forest reserves and
customary lands. The numbers of foresters, forest guards and patrolmen are
being substantially increased. Part of their duties will be to license wood
and collect st-umpage fees, principally directly from the major commercial
users, backed up by a system of spot checks and a few strategic checkpoints
on roads leading So the main markets. The checkpoints would confiscate all
commercial wood produce which had not been licensed and paid for. In
addition, the forestry staff will provide protection of forests in heavily
depleted or environmentally fragile areas where commercial cutting has been
restricted or prohibited. In these areas they direct major users to
environmentally safe sources of wood, such as government fuelwood and
industrial plantations, iorest reserves with surplus yields or waste wood
from land clearing activities. Finally, the forestry staff will work with
the local inhabitants to educate them on the sustainable utilization of the
indigenous forests. They will provide advice on improved silvicultural
techniques including cutting practices, enrichment plantings and fire
control, so as to ensure regeneration and optimal yields over time.
4.12     Wood cut for domestic purposes will continue to be free of charge.
Most rural households are subsistence farmers who are largely outside the
cash economy and would be unable to pay for wood they need to survive. It
would also be excessively costly, if not impossible, to enforce payment of
stumpage fees for small volumes of wood extracted daily by millions of rural
households. However, given the fact that rural households account for the
bulk of wood utilized, the Project supports other measures to promote self-
sufficiency in fuelwood for this group.
4.13     Forest Extension.  The extension units would be organized on a
district level and concentrated in areas with acute fuelwood shortage and
where planting by farmers needs to be intensified. The extension staff
would focus on small and medium size farmers and provide them with seed or
seedlings, register them for the tree planting incentive payment and give
them simple technical assistance in raising seedlings, tree planting,
harvesting and wood usage. They will also teach the local people how to
utilize the indigenous forest on a sustainable basis. Wood Energy I made
recommendations strengthening the linkages between the Government's Forestry
Department and Agricultural Extension Services and making better use of
contact farmers to encourage the spread of improved tree planting practices.
The project will give special attention to monitoring the progress being
made in strengthening these extension linkages. A review of the
effectiveness of the forestry extension program will be an integral
component of the terms of reference of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
(para 5.34).



- 24 -
4.14     Retail Nurseries.  Each nursery's production would start with
100,000 seedlings a year and would then be increased in response to demand
up to the production capacity of 200,000 seedlings per nursery. Under the
first Wood Energy Project, nurseries generally only supplied eucalyptus
seedlings. However, there appears to be demand by farmers for indigenous
species such as Mbawa, and for fruit tree and other multi-purpose trees.
Therefore, under the Project, tihe intention is to supply much wider variety
of species including multi-purpose trees, agro-forestry trees and indigenous
species. The nurseries seedling production and sales would be complemented
by distribution of seedling production packages containing seeds and
polythene tubes to "contact farmers' identified by the extensionists as
successful and interested in raising seedlings. Demonstration woodlots
would also be established in some retail nurseries and on surplus land of
"contact farmers."
4.15     Tree Planting Incentive Payment.  The tree planting incentive
scheme evolved from the early experience with the nurseries established
under the First Wood Energy Project from which it was clear that farmers had
littla financial incentive to plant trees even when provided with seedlings
at subsidized prices. Farmers face a choice between using their land and
labor for tree planting or agricultural crops. Growing trees requires tying
up land for many years, with the costs incurred principally in the first
year and the benefits occurring only later. Small farmers also tend to have
high private discount rates. These factors, combined with the current low
stumpage rates and widespread free access to wood, mean that financial
returns to fuelwood production are very low or negative. In order to
compensate for the impact of price distortions on the profitability of
establishing woodlots by individual farmers, an investment incentive is
required. Under the tree planting incentive scheme, farmers will receive
payments of five tambala for each tree surviving two years (after which
trees require almost no maintenance) which will help make tree planting
financially attractive relative to agricultural crop production on marginal
land. (This figure is considered too low to be an effective incentive, and
during negotiations it was agreed with the Government to review it from time
to time.) Over time, as the stumpage rate for wood increases and
restrictions on cutting in the indigenous forest are implemented, the need
for the tree planting subsidies should decline. However, in the short run,
production subsidies are economically ju.tifiable as a way to correct the
existing market distortion in which wood is widely available free or at a
very low price which reduces the incentives for private production.
Encouraging smallholders to plant trees through provision of subsidized
seedlings and incentive payments is a much more cost-effective way for the
Government to promote wood production than its earlier approach of directly
establishing plantations (see Table 4.3). In the first place, farmers can
produce fuelwood at approximately one-third of the total economic cost of
wood from Government plantations. Secondly, the fiscal burden on the
Government is much less. The financial cost to the Government of the
subsidies for each hectare planted by farmers is only around a quarter of
the cost per hectare of Forestry Department plantations.



- 25 -
TABLE 4.3
Present Discounted Value of Total Costs of Escablishing One
Hectare of Trees (1986 prices)
Economic Costs:                                  MK
Government Plantations                      894
Small Farmer Woodlots                       258
Fiscal Cost
Small Farmer Woodlot (1)                    198
(1) Cost to Government of small farmer wood lots includes subsidies to
seedlings, transportation, extension, monitoring, and tree planting
incentive payment. Transfer payments such as the incentive payment are
not included in calculating economic costs of woodlots. For further
explanation of calculation see SAR for the Wood Energy Project.
4.16     Government Plantations.  The Project also provides for a limited
area of Government plantations. The original intention was to establish
3,000 hectares on Mulanje mountain and 3,000 hectares just outside Lilongwe.
However, given the poor yields and high costs of the Government plantations
established under the NRDP II Wood Energy Project, the proposed plartations
were re-appraised in July 1988. At Mulanje, the soil and rainfall are very
favorable for rapid growth of eucalyptus while the altitude is sufficiently
high to eliminate the problem of termite damage which is very severe at
lower altitudes. Also, the trees will be planted on very steep and fragile
slopes which are unsuitable for crop cultivation and hence the opportunity
cost of the land in terms of agricultural output foregone is minimal. In
addition, there will be significant environmental benefits from
reforestation of the mountain, including protection of the water catchment
area and reduction of soil erosion. Therefore, the mission concluded that
the plantation program on Mulanje mountain should be supported.   The
proposed site at Lilongwe has much less favorable rainfall and soil quality
and the small number (90) of hectares planted so far show poor growth and
extensive termite damage. Further, the land is currently being cultivated
by over 2,100 families.  The Government proposed to resettle these fami'ies
and provide a compensation package to them. The economic costs of the
plantation would therefore also include the social and financial costs of
resettlement and compensation and the opportunity cost of the food crops
foregone each year. Under these circumstances, the mission concluded that
the Lilongwe plantation would show very low economic returns and should be
dropped from the proposed Project. The Government however believes the
Lilongwe plantation should still be established in order to provide a cheap
fuel source to the growing urban population. The site inhabitants are
considered squatters as the Government had previously decided to move them
from the designated plantation area. Without the plantation the Government
envisages extensive ecological damage due to deforestation of the peri urban
areas of Lilongwe, which would be very costly to reverse. The Government
also believes that the proposed site is capable of supporting a healthy tree
crop of species other than the eucalyptus species currently planted. The
Government is therefore committed to seeking alternatI.ve financing for the
Lilongwe plantation.



- 26 -
4.17     Energy Efficiency Initiatives.  The actions on wood pricing and
revenue collection indirectly create incentives for greater wood
onservation. However, increased stumpage rates in the absence of the
availability of low-cost techniques to reduce wood consumption would merely
be inflationary and cause hardship to consumers. The Project is therefore
also supporting the introduction of more fuel-efficient technologies in
areas of high wood consumption. The fuel-cured tobacco industry utilizes
the bulk of commercial fuelwood extracted from the natural forests and has
caused severe deforestation in many areas. A survey of estates carried out
in 1984 found that the national average fuelwood consumption was 42 stacked
m3 per tone of tobacco cured. However, research trials at the Malawi
Tobacco Research Authority (MTRA) have demonstrated that wood consumption
can be reduced to between 10-15 stacked m3 per ton by utilizing an improved
(but low cost) furnace and better management and curing techniques. Efforts
are now directed to disseminating the research findings and training estate
managers, furnace builders and furnace stokers/operators in the new
techniques. MTRA will gradually take over fully these extension costs.
However, given MTRA's limited budget and to ensure adequte financing for the
critical first few years, the Energy I Project will provide MK75,000
annually for the first two years to finance the costs of dissemination and
training.
4.18     The Project will also support the introduction of more efficient
household stoves in urban areas. Urban households account for a large and
growing share of wood consumption, mainly in the form of charcoal. An
impro-,ed stove has been developed which can achieve fuel savings of between
30-45%. The stoves can be produced by small-scale artisans using scrap
metal from used oil drums for the metal casings and local clay for the
ceramic liners. Production costs are low and at current charcoal prices the
pay-back to stove purchasers is less than three months. Three pilot
production centers have been set up in Blantyre and are operating
successfully. A sample of households have tested the improved stoves in
their homes and preliminary indications are that consumers are reacting very
positively to them. Local entrepreneurs interested in marketing the stove
have been identified and stoves are now being sold in local hardware stores
in Blantyre. Under the Project, the objective is to establish additional
pilot production units in the Lilongwe and Mzuzu areas and to facilitate the
move from pilot production, which has been run with technical assistance
from Kenya, to full-scale commercial operations without Government subsidies
or assistance.
4.19     Another component on the energy conservation side is introducing
more efficient charcoal making methods.  Pilot charcoal production sites
have been set up using beehive brick kilns.  These kilns convert wood into
charcoal at an efficiency rate (by weight) of about 32Z under normal
operating conditions, which is about three times higher than the conversion
rate of the traditionally used earth kilns.  They are built using local
materials and operated at very low cost with local labor assisted by oxen,
with minimal requirements for training, capital or foreign exchange. The
production centers are located in the 55,000 hectare pulpwood plantation in
the Viphya mountains in the Norch and in an old timber plantation in the
South, Pulp and timber schemes require regular silvicultural treatment
which generates a steady flow of wood from thinnings which up till now has



- 27 -
been largely wasted. Because the bulk of the thinnings (i.e., in the
Viphya) is not located in close proximity to the major demand centers for
fuel, charcoal production is the most economic way to utilize the wr;te wood
as it minimizes transportation costs. Preliminary results from the pilot
charcoal component indicate the potential for meeting a substantial part of
the commercial demand for wood energy from tobacco estates and urban
households (and at least part of the demand from refugees) with charcoal
produced from surplus wood from industrial plantations for example at Viphya
and Dezda 14/ at a lower cost than by establishing peri-urban Government
fuelwood plantations (see Table 4.4).  While for Blantyre costs of charcoal
from the Viphya seem about the same as costs of peri-urban plantations, the
latter costs do not include an opportunity costs of land which in the
Southern Region is likly to be substantial.
TABLE 4.4
Landed Costs of Charcoal from Different Sources (1)
Sources     Viphya       Dedza        Lilongwe      Blantyre
Thinnings   Wood          Peri-Urban   Peri-Urban
Waste (2)   Eucalyptus   Eucalyptus
outlet
Lilongwe           125        90               147            -
Blantyre           165         113               -           160
(1) MK per landed ton of charcoal.
4.20     Institutional Strengthening and Support Services.  The Government's
strategy for wood energy implies a substantial increase in the scope and
complexity of the responsibilities of the Forestry Department. The Project
therefore provides resources to reorganize and strengthen the Forestry
Department Headquarters to enable it to carry out the program
satisfactorily. The Project contains a number of new features, particularly
the tree planting incentive scheme, which require constant monitoring during
implementation. Therefore a Monitoring and Evaluation (M & E) unit has been
set up and a computerized system put in place to assist management in
assessing progress of implementation as well as in monitoring responses of
the target population. The M & E unit would enable corrective measures to
be taken at early stages and decisions to be made about the possible
redesign of these pilot efforts before completion. In addition, a Planning
Unit has been established which is responsible for formulating objectives,
setting priorities, and preparing work plans and budgets is essential. In
compiling basic resource data, the planning unit would establish a forest
inventory and land survey capability to determine land use of forest areas,
including the potential for wood production, encroachment, and deforestation
rate.
14/ Dedza is a small (7,000 hectare) pine plantation in the Central Region
which would be a lower cost supply option for Blantyre than the Viphya due
to lower transportation costs and hence should be utilized first.



- 28 -
4.21     Under the Project, the responsibilities and activities of forestry
field staff are significantly increased beyond the traditional focus of
foresters on establishing Government plantations. It is essential that all
forestry field staff are adequately trained for their extensive new duties
'hich include management and control of the indigenous forest areas, issuing
wood licences and levying stumpage fees, implementing extension programs,
administering the tree planting incentive program, providing technical
assistance for the wood conservation for the wood conservation programs and
monitoring and evaluating the various Project components. Technical level
training is provided by the Malawi College of Forestry. However, the
facilities are not adequate to cope with the major increases in training
necessary particularly at the sub-professional level (forest guards,
nurserymen and patrolmen) and for in-service refresher courses essential to
equip existing field staff for their broader duties under the Project. Some
expansion of facilities is necessary and, in addition, many of the existing
facilities are in need of repairs. The Project therefore provides for the
rehabilitation and expansion of facilities at the College.
4.22     The Project also provides resources to strengthen forestry
research. The research program at FRIM has been streamlined to ensure that
it is focused on Project objectives and does not exceed the limited staff
capacity to implement research activities. Given the objectives of the wood
energy program, the priority topics include the following: Plantations: (a)
research on improved seed sources of eucalyptus and manipulation of hybrids
of that genus; (b) development of a formal planting site survey methodology;
(c) review of fertilizer research program concentrating on evaluation of the
relative cost-effectiveness of different levels of borate and NPK
application as well as possible local low-cost substitutes for imported
fertilizers; (d) implementation of espacement trial plots; (e)
identification of permanent inventory plots and a formalized system of
collecting infermation on felling yields and coppicing vigor. Agroforestry:
(a) diversification of multi-purpose species appropriate for smallholder
farmers; (b) on-farm research on the range of technical interventions and
design of such interventions to assist small farmers. Indigenous Woodland:
(a) social/anthrolopogical analysis of local people's utilization of the
natural forest and options for their participation in indigenous woodland
management; (b) detailed inventory of indigenous forest resources, growth
and yields.
4.23     Summary.  The wood energy strategy involves the simultaneous
implementation of a comprehensive package of policies and programs. Few if
any of the individual elements can have an impact alone - each is mutually
dependent on and, in turn reinforces the impact of the other components.
Thus, the fuel-efficient technologies being developed might not be adopted
without the financial incentives for energy conservation created by
increases in stumpage rates and improved revenue collection. Conversely,
increased stumpage fees in the absence of low-cost techniques to conserve
wood would merely be inflationary and cause hardship to consumers.
Restrictions on commercial cutting and prohibition of charcoal making in
heavily depleted and environmentally fragile areas are essential to prevent
total destruction of Malawi's indigenous forest and serious environmental
damage. However, these actions have to be complemented by efforts to
provide environmentally safe and inexpensive energy alternatives to users.



- 29 -
Charcoal production is a key element in this strategy as it permits
immediate use of distant sources of surplus wood at relatively low cost.
While pine charcoal offers an environmentally safe alternative source of
energy, its production has to be accompanied by the development of
inexpensive technologies to enable users such as urban households and
tobacco estates to switch from indigenous charcoal or wood to softwood
charcoal and by the development of reliable and low-cost distribution
channels. The tree planting incentives, subsidized seedlings and forestry
extension are other essential ingredients in the long term strategy to shift
users away from the natural forest to cultivated wood sources. These
efforts to promote tree planting by the private sector are in turn
reinforced by the actions on stumpage fees and revenue collection.
V. PROGRAM AND PROJECT
Power Subsector Least Cost Investment Program
5.01     Malawi's power system development has been well conceived and
implemented by ESCOM and the Government with the assistance of recognized
consultants. The latest Least Cost ESCOM Power Development Program to the
year 2000, recently completed by Kennedy and Donkin for the Government, has
helped to establish priorities and key dates for program implementatior. for
the power sub-sector. The least cost options for power supply are based on
Malawi's indigenous hydroelectric power resources, and do not include power
imports from neighboring countries or thermal plant. Discussions are
underway between Malawi and Zambia on possible interconnection of the two
systems. Indications are that base load supply from Zambia may not be
feasible from mid-nineties due to Zambia's need of the present excess
capacity. However, studies to assess its viability is in progress under the
auspices of SADCC and with the assistance of NORAD. The security situation
in Mozambique renders consideration of interconnection as an unlikely option
in the short/medium term. Thermal options are ruled out by the high cost of
fuel.
5.02     ESCOM's least cost development program includes installation in
1991 of a fifth unit of 20MW at Nkula B; construction of a 50MW
hydroelectric power plant at Tedzani III for commissioning in 1994;
construction of Kapichira hydroelectric project with two units of 25MW each
for commissioning by 1997 and the remaining three units by 1999; generation
rehabilitation of the existing hydro and standby thermal plants;
construction of a 260km 132kV line from Nkula B hydroelectric power plant to
Lilongwe and associated substations; reinforcement and expansion of sub-
transmission and distribution systems including rural electrification.
5.03     In addition to the power sub-component, the investment program for
the energy sector includes charcoal production; coal exoloration and mining;
energy planning and training; fuelwood programs; and establishment of
national fuel reserve. These are planned by Government with the assistance
of consultants and donor agencies.



- 30 -
5.04     The mission has had constructive discussions with ESCOM and the
Government on the least cost power sector development program as well as on
the other energy sub-components during project preparation and appraisal.
Energy Sector Investment and Source of Financing
5.05     The overall investment program for the energy sector is given in
Annex 5.2 and is summarized in Table 5.1 below. It includes ESCOM's least
cost expansion program for the period 1989-94 as well as Government's plans
for the other energy sub-components. The total Investment requirement for
the period 1989-94 is estimated at K816 million (US$224 million) of which
K605 million (US$167 million) is foreign exchange with an additional
in.:~stment of K633 million (US$114 million) for Kapichira during 1995-99.
Table 5.1
Suammsry of Energy Sector Investment Program 1989-1994
Total Expenditures
Locol  Foreign  Totel           Local Fori'n  Total
sT11r70n K)                      WmiliOn  l) 
Power
Proposed Project (a)        47.0   188.6   236.6            12.3    49.6    61.8
Generation (b)              44.1   153.0   197.1            11.1   40.2    61.8
Transmission                23.8    79.2   103.0             8.7    22.6    29.2
Distribution (c)             4.6    22.6    27.1             1.3    8.6      7.8
Rural Electrification        5.3    26.9   31.2              1.4     8.9    8.3
ESCOM General (d)           64.6     _      64.8            17.5      --    17.6
Subtotal Power           189.3   4a.3   658.68           60.3   126.6   175.9
Energy
Energy Planning               --     6.2    6.2               --     1.6     1.6
Charcoal and Wood Energy    21.3    33.1    64.4             8 1     9.9    16.0
Fuel Reserve                  --    29.9    29.9              --    13.4    13.4
Fuelwood e/                   --    60.2   60.2               --    14.0    14.0
Coal Production               --     8.2     6.2              --     2.6     2.6
Pricing Study                 -      1.6     1.5              --     0.6    0.6
Sub Total Energy         21.3   136.1   17.4              8.1   41.8    47.9
Grand Total              210.8   806.4   816.0          65.4   167.4   223.8
a) Detailed in Annex 6.3.
b) Includes investment on Kapichira hydro up to 1994.
c) Includes mainly distribution reinforcement.
d) Includes mainly distribution expansion.
e) EEC and NORAD supported project.
5.06     The power investments to be financed under the proposed project
include civil works and equipment at Tedzani III, rehabilitation works at
Tedzani stages I and II, consulting services and computer equipment for
ESCOM (see Annex 5.1). The project will also finance the charcoal and wood
energy components. The additional 20MW unit at Nkula B is expected to be
financed by KfW. EIB is financing 132kV substations and distribution
reinforcements. The Italian Government is considering financing Kapichira.
CDC has expressed interest to finance the 132kV transmission line. UNDP
intends to finance energy planning and training, coal exploration and mining



- 31 -
as well as support Government's efforts in promoting petroleum exploration.
EEC is financing national petroleum reserve physical facilities, while the
Government is providing a foreign exchange revolving fund to procure the
petroleum. ESCOM's financial position will enable it to contribute more
than the local currency requirements of the investment program if the
Government's foreign currency reserve position can be assumed to permit
procurement from abroad with ESCOM's own funds.
5.07     During negotiations agreement was reached that: (i) ESCOM will not
undertake any major expansion in excess of US$5 million not included in the
ESCOM's Power Subsector Investment Program (PSIP) agreed with IDA unless
ESCOM shall have furnished to the Association satisfactory evidence that
sucn a major project is economically and technically justified; and (ii) the
PSIP shall be reviewed annually and revised if found necessary.
5.08     Works in Progress.  ESCOM has transmission and distribution works
under construction as follows: (i) construction of a 112km 132kV line from
Nkula to Sucoma Sugar Estate via future sites of Kapichira and Blantyre West
Substations, with 132/llkV 25MVA substation at Sucoma; (ii) construction of
66kV line from Chinteche to Chikangawa and neighboring areas; (iii)
distribution works in the grid system; (iv) construction of buildings and
provision of facilities related thereto; and (v) completion of the first
phase of the rural electrification program. Implementation progress for the
wood energy component is described in para 4.08.
5.09     Charcoal production and marketing activities of a pilot IDA
supported project terminated in January 198.8. The main objective of the
activities covered by the pilot phase is to convert thinnings from
Government pine plantations (mainly Viphya plantations) into charcoal for
fuel use by the urban households and agro-industrial consumers. The pilot
phase established production capacity of 6000 tons per year (tpy) and a
demand from the tobacco curing industry, industrial consumers and urban
households. In the meantime, however, the installed capacity has
deteriorated and charcoal sales have dropped considerably. The cause of
this deterioration was lack of profeesional project management which has
since been rectified with the extension of the services of the consultant
previously engaged on the charcoal component. This is rendered possible
with the provision of US$750,000 Project Preparation Facility (PPF). In
view of the growing potential demand for charcoal both by the industrial and
domestic consumers, including demand by refugees from Mozambique, the PPF
will also assist to expand the production capacity to 15000 tpy as well as
establish a more efficient wholesale and retail infrastructure. These
activities would be enhanced and sustainability would be ensured with the
support to be provided by the proposed Energy I Project. In February 1989,
the Government published the proposed concession agreement for the
privatization of the charcoal production and marketing operations.
The Project
5.10     Project Obiectives.  The overall objectives of the proposed Energy
I Project is to assist the Government to formulate and implement an
integrated program to make the most economic use of Malawi's domestic and
imported energy resources. The specific objectives of the Project are (i)
to assist the Government and ESCOM implement the priority components of the



- 32 -
least cost power development plan adopted by the Government; (ii) to assist
the Government and the Forestry Department to implement their comprehensive
strategy for the management of wood energy on a cost-effective and
environmentally sustainable basis; (iii) to ensure energy pricing policy
signals economic cost of supply; and (iv) to strengthen energy planning
capability and enhance the management information system of ESCOM.
5.11     Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The proposed project addresses the
principal issues across the energy sector. Rationalization of the energy
sector, including decreasing dependence on imported oil and coal and
reversing the depletion of indigenous fuelwood sources, is a key component
of the Government's structural adjustment program which the Bank is
supporting. The Bank has helped finance three power projects in Malawi, the
last one of which was completed in 1982. Assistance to the energy sector
has continued through projects in wood energy as well as through technical
assistance vnd studies. The Bank's involvement at this time would support
the implementation of the least cost power development program; assist on-
going activities on charcoal production and encourage its commercialization;
support woodfuel management and devalopment; and enhance institution
building, thus ensuring sustainability of on-going Bank assistance on
woodfuel and energy planning and training. The Bank would also play an
important role in aid coordination.
5.12     Project Preparation.  A Bank preparation mission visited Malawi in
March 1988, and reviewed and agreed with the Government on the study to
update ESCOM's least cost development program prepared for the Government by
Kennedy and Donkin in association with WLPU consultants.  The study covers
extensively the sequence of development of the generation component and has
updated the urgent transmission requirement of ESCOM's system. The mission
prepared the other subcomponents after discussion with ESCOM, EPD, MFNR and
other Government departments dealing with the energy sector. The findings
of the least cost-study and the input of the March 1988 preparation mission
revised during appraisal in June and July 1988, constitute the Energy I
Project. The report was discussed in detail with Government and ESCOM
during appraisal including the estimated project costs, the period of
implementation and the priority of components.
5.13     Project Description.  Detailed description of the Project is given
in Annex 5.1 and is summarized as follows:
A. Tedzani III Hydroelectric Power Scheme
(i) Construction of an additional intake structure to Tedzani III, a
1052 m headrace tunnel and surge chamber, a reinforced concrete
boy structured power house, a tailrace outlet system, and
installation of two Francis turbines coupled to two 25MW
generators and associated electromechanical equipment, switchyard,
additional 132 kV transmission link to Nkula B, additional SCADA
and PLC systems;
(ii) A 132/ 66kV substation at Blantyre West; and



- 33 -
(iii)Engineering services for the design and supervision of the power
scheme.
B. Generation Rehabilitation
(i) Increasing the reliability of Tedzani 1 and II power plants
through (a) the systematic replacement of direct cooling by closed
circuit water cooling, (b) changing turbine governor parts to
improve stability of Tedzani I and (c) replacing existing
mechanical voltage regulators of Tedzani I by electronic automatic
voltage regulators.
(ii) Acquisition of spaces for the existing hydro, gas turbine and
diesel power plants.
C. Institution Strengthening ESCOM
(ij  Provision of computers to be installed in ESCOM's various branches
to enhance the speed of information flow to headquarters and to
strengthen its in-house planning capability;
(ii) Electricity tariff and asset revaluation studies;
(iii)Transmission and distribution system studies.
D. Charcoal
(i) Provision for consultancy services to (a) advise on and monitor
the performance and marketing of softwood charcoal production from
forest thinnings; (b) advise on commercialization of charcoal
production and marketing; (c) advise potential industrial and
agro-industrial consumers as well as the Government on charcoal
utilization; and (d) prepare specifications for procurement of
vehicles and equipment for charcoal production and performance
monitoring;
(ii) Procurment of vehicles and equipment for charcoal production and
performance monitoring.
E. Wood Energy
The Wood Energy component of the proposed Energy I Project would
include:
(i) Institutional development: involving: (a) establishment of an
improved system for management and protection of the indigenous
forest and revenue collection; (b) setting up pilot extension
schemes in nine districts with acute fuelwood shortages; and (c)
establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit and a Planning
Unit in t1e Forestry Department and strengthening of the existing
units.
(ii) Wood production: (a) measures to promote tree planting by the
private sector including the establishment of 60 retail nurseries



- 34 -
to sell seedlings to smallholders and estates and provision of
tree planting incentives payments to smallholders; and (b)
establishment of about 2,800 hectares of Government fuelwood
plantations on the environmentally fragile slopes of Mount
Mulanje;
(iii) Wood conservation: including: (a) initiating the pilot production
and marketing of more fuel-efficient household cooking stoves; and
(b) dissemination of research findings and training of estate
operators in techniques to reduce wood consumption in tobacco
curing;
(iv)  Support services: consisting of support to the training and
research programs.
F. Energy Pricing Study
Consultancy services for energy pricing study covering liquid
fuels, woodfuel and coal and interfuel substitution possibilities
particularly in industry, households and transport.
Project Cost Estimate
5.14     Project costs are detailed in Annex 5.3 and summarized in Table 5.2
below.
Table 5.2
Sumnary of Project Costs
Local  Foreign  Total           Local  Foreign  Total
(Kuachas millIon)                (US$ million)
Power Component
A. Tedzani III
Main civil works         32.60   68.38   90.86             8.49   16.22   23.71
Electromechanical         4.05   87.68   71.68             1.04   17.68   18.69
Substations               7.83   88.16   46.79             1.99    9.94   11.93
Engineering               2.77   17.88   20.16             0.74    4.88    6.40
Suttotal Tedzani III  46.98  181.48  228.44          12.26   47.47   69.73
B. Generation Rehabilitation    0.10    5.21    6.31            0.02   1.47    1.49
C. Institution Strengthening    --    1.94    1.94              _       0.80    0.60
Subtotal Power       47.08  188.63  236.69           12.28   49.64   61.82
Interest During Construction    83.69    --   33.69            8.68      --    8.68
Total Power          80.76  188.63  269.38           20.88   49.64   70.40
Energy Component
D. Charcoal                    0.26    2.96    8.22            0.10    1.00    1.10
E. Woodenergy                 20.99   30.18   61.17            6.02    8.86   14.88
F. Energy Pricing               --    1.60    1.60               -      0.60    0.0
Total Energy         21.26   84.64   66.89            6.12   10. 8   16.48
Total Financing
Requirement       102.00  223.27  325.27             26.98  69.90   86.88



- 35 -
5.15     The cost estimate is based on the study carried out by Kennedy and
Donkin for the major power component and on information furnished by
Government and its consultants for the energy components. The total cost of
the Project including physical and price contingencies, but excluding duties
and taxes and interest during construction, is estimated at US$78.3 millior,
of which the foreigni exchange cost would be US$59.9 million (762). Total
financing required including interest during construction, is estimated at
US$86.9 million equivalent. For the power component, base costs are at July
1987 price level. Physical contingencies are 10? for electromechanical
equipment and engineering services and 15? of base costs for civil works.
Price contingencies were computed assuming annual local inflation rates of
152 in 1989, 10 in 1990, 7.5Z in 1991, and 52 in 1992 through 1994. The
corresponding international inflation rates are 3? in 1989 and 1990, and 42
for 1991 through 1994. For the wood energy component base costs were
estimated at prices as of July 1988. A physical contingency of 10? was
included for civil works, furniture and equipment to allow for possible
design changes and 15? for small farmer tree planting incentive scheme
because of uncertainty about the level of demand for seedlings and their
survival rate. No physical contingency was provided for all other
categories. The rates for price contingencies were the same as for the
power component.
5.16     Proiect Financing.  The project financing plan ie shown in Table
5.3 below. The total foreign exchange requirement of the project is
estimated at US$59.9 million of which US$49.5 million will be expended by
ESCOM on the power component and US$10.4 million by the Government on the
other energy components of the project. Of the total foreign exchange cost,
IDA will finance US$42.3 equivalent, and Austria US$17.6 million. Of the
total local currency requirement amounting to K80.8 million for the power
component, K47.1 million will be provided by ESCOM from funds generated from
its operations. The Government is assumed to be financing the remaining
K33.7 million of local cost which represents interest during construct3on on
loans on-lent by it to ESCOM. The total local currency requirement of K21.2
million for the energy component will be financed by IDA (X15.1 million) and
by the Government (K6.1 million).
5.17     US$14.8 million from the proposed IDA credit will be passed or. by
the Government to the Forestry Department of the MFNR and to EPU of EPD for
the charcoal, wcodfuel and energy pricing study subcomponents respectively.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that (i) the Government shall on
lend to ESCOM US$31.9 million from the proposed credit at 7.65Z interest
rate and 20 years repayment period including 5 years of grace, ESCOM to bear
the foreign exchange risks; and (ii) the execution of the onlending
agreements between ESCOM and the Government is a condition of effectiveness
of the IDA credit.
5.18     The notification by Austria that all conditions precedent to the
first disbursement of the Austrian loan have been fulfilled is a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.



- 36 -
Table 5.3
Financing Plan
Local Cost                 Forelgn Cost
IDA ESCOM   COM  TOTAL        IDA AUSTRIAN TOTAL
(Kwachas millIon)         (USI millon)
Power
A. Tedzani III              --  47.A    --    4'.1         29.8  17.8   47.4
B. Generation Rehabilitation  --   --    --    --           1.6   --    1.6
C. Institution strengthening  --   --    --    --           0.8   --    0.8
Subtotal              --  t        1  --    47.1     31.9  17.8   49.5
Interest during Construction  --   --    33.7   33.7       --   --   --
Subtotal Power        --  47.1    33.7  80.8         31.9  17.8   49.5
Energy
D. Charcoal Production      --   --    0.3    0.3           1.0   --    1.0
E. Woodfu.l               16.1   --      6.8   20.9         8.9   --    8.9
F. Energy Pricing           --   --       --   --           0.6   --    0.6
Subtotal Energy       15.1   --    6.1   21.2         10.4   --   10.4
Total Financing Requirement  16.1  47.1   39.8  102.0      42.3  17.6   69.9
5.19     Project Implementation.  Procurement activities will commence from
mid.-1989.  The physical execution of the major power components of the
project will start in mid-1990, and will be completed in April 1994. On-
going activities on wood energy program will be accelerated as soon as the
proposed credit is declared effective, expected by June 1989. A project
implementation schedule summary is attached as Annex 5.4.
5.20     Implementation of Power Components.  ESCOM will be responsible for
the implementation of the power components of the project and will appoint a
Project Manager whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to IDA
to coordinate the supervision of the executior of the power components of
the project. The Project Manager will be the local counterpart for IDA and
cofinancing agencies, consultants and contractors of the power component of
the project, and will deal with all correspondence, progress reports and
procurement activities. Consultants will be employed at the latest by June
30, 1989, to prepare tender documents and issue tenders to render possible
timely commencement of construction. Confirmatory drilling and hydraulic
model testing will also be undertaken in 1989. Project design and
preparation of bid documents will be undertaken during 1990. The
construction of Tedzani III will be undertaken by contractors under the
supervision of consulting engineers and ESCOM. The rehabilitation of
Tedzani I and II and the standby thermal plants will be carried out by
manufacturers under the supervision of ESCOM assisted as required by
consultants. On-the-job training for ESCOM staff will be provided in the
bid documents of the proposed Project during Project design, construction
and supervision (Annex 5.1). Appointment of a Project Manager for the power
component is a condition of disbursement of the proposed Credit.
5.21     Implementation of Energy Components.  EPU will be responsible for
coordinating the implementation of the energy components of the proposed



- 37 -
Project. The Forestry Department of the MFNR will be responsible for the
charcoal production and woodfuel and the EPU for energy pricing study. The
Forestry Department and EPU will be assisted by consultants to be employed
under the project with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
5.22     Consulting Services.   The execution of the project will require
consulting services for studies, design and preparation of bidding
documents, evaluation of tenders and supervision of construction,
installation and commissioning of maiui plant and equipment.
5.23     Procurement for the Power and Components other than Wood Energy.
The component of main civil works, machinery and equipment to be financed by
IDA will be purchased through international competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA guidelines for procurement. Direct contracting (US$1.49
million) with the original suppliers will apply for the generation
rehabilitation. Margins of preference to domestic manufactures will not
apply because equipment and materials required for the power component of
the proposed project are not produced ,ocally. All contracts for amounts
equal to or larger than US$100,000 equivalent will be subject to IDA's prior
review. Consultancy services to be financed under the proposed IDA credit
will be selected on the basis of the quality of service, in accordance with
IDA guidelines for selecting consultants.
5.24     Procurement for Wood Energy Component.  Vehicles, equipment,
machinery and materials would be bulked as far as possible into orders of
US$O.l million and over and procured through ICB; orders for less than
US$0.1 million for items of small value needed throughout the life of the
Project will be procured in accordance with LCB procedures acceptable to the
Bank - these would not exceed US$0.5 million in aggregate; items costing
less than US$0.03 million will be procured through local shopping procedures
with a minimum of three quotations - these orders will not exceed US$0.1
million in aggregate. Technical assistance consultants will be procured in
accordance with IDA guidelines for selecting consultants. Civil works for
the expansion of facilities at Malawi College of Forestry will be procured
through LCB (US$0.67 million). The remainder of civil works (US$2.54
million) consists of a large number of low value units, with an average cost
of around US$5,000, which are scattered widely over several hundred
different and remotely located sites. Based on past experience of forestry
projects in Malawi, it is considered unlikely that any bids would be
received for competitive tender for these works. Therefore these works
would be procured either through Force Account of the Ministry of Forestry
and Natural Resources, or through negotiations with contractors working in
the vicinity, or through local competitive bidding as appropriate for thene
types of very small and scattered works. The specific method would be
agreed with Bank supervision missions. The proportion of contract which
will be subject to prior review by the Bank is estimated at 75? for the
whole project.



- 38 -
TABLE 5.4
Procurement Method a/
Power Component           ICB     LCB       nutent  b       Oth-rlc   DC(d)   MA e)   Tote l
Civil Works             23.71                                                          23.71
(16.22)                                                       (16.22)
Electromechanical                 1.03                         17.68                   18.89
Substations             11.93                                                          11.93
( 9.94)                                                       t 9.94)
Generation
Rehabilitation                                                        1.49            1.49
(1.47)          (1.47)
Institution
Strengthening
Computers            0.36                                                           0.36
( 0.35)                                                       ( 0.36)
Studies                                    0.26                                     0.26
(0.26)                                ( 0.26)
Engineering                                     6.40                                    6.40
Services                                       (4.68)                                 ( 4.66)
Total Power             U                       51.   .65      17.68 .  17.49          61.82
(26.61)                (4.91)                  (1.47)         (31.9)
Eneray Components
Charcoal Production      1.10                                                           1.10
(1.00)                                                        (1.00)
Wood energy
Vehicles, equipment
and materials       2.07     0.60                        1.10                     2.87
( 2.07)   (0.60)                      (0.10)                  ( 2.67)
Technical AssIstance                       0.40                                    0.40
(0.40)                                 ( 0.40)
Civil works                   0.67                        2.54                     8.21
(0.87)                     (2.64)                  ( 3.21)
Operating costs etc.                                                       8.60    8.60
(6.97) ( 6.97)
Energy Pricing Study                            0.50                                    0.60
(0.60)                                 ( 0.60)
Total Energy          8.7I T     . 171 -77                   2.64    1.49    8.60   16.48
( 3.07)   (1.17)       (0.9)          ( 2.84)  (1.47)  (6.97) (14.76)
Total Project        39.16      2.20        6.66            20.30   1.49    8.60   78.30
(28.68)   (1.17)       (6.81)         ( 2.64)  (1.47)  (6.97) (46.7 )
a)      Amounts In brackets are IDA financed.
b)      Consulting sorvices and technical assistance under IDA guidelines.
c)      Tied to Austrian suppliers for the power component.  Force account or negotiations with
contractor, and local shopping for the energy component.
d)      Proprietary spare parts that can only be purchased through direct contracting with manufacturers
of original equipment.
e)      N.A. a not applicable.
5.25       Advance Contracting.  A PPF of US$750,000 equivalent has been
provided to help the Government finance consulting services and technical
assistance to implement the charcoal production and marketing component of
the proposed Project. A supplementary PPF of the same amount has also been



- 39 -
approved to continue wood energy activities initiated under IBRD Loan No.
2670-MAI (Wood Energy II) pending the effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
5.26     Disbursement.  The proceeds from the credit would be disbursed over
a period of about 60 months from June 1989 through June 1994. For the power
component, disbursements from the credit would be made for 100? of foreign
expenditures for all project components except for consulting services, for
which disbursements will be made for 80? of local expenditures for services
of consultants domiciled in Malawi and 100Z of foreign expenditures for
services of other consultants. For the charcoal component, 100? of foreign
expenditures and 90Z of local expenditures would be disbursed from the
Credit. For the wood energy component, 100Z disbursement will be made for
the total costs (foreign and local) for all items of expenditure except for
the category of salaries and allowances for which no disbursements will be
made. The anticipated schedule of disbur.sements (Annex 5.5) from the
proposed IDA credit is based on the annual estimated project costs and are
in compliance with standara profiles for Bank loans and IDA credits for
energy projects in the Africa region. Disbursements may be made on the
basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for contracts below $20,000,
including for expenses related to civil works carried out on Force Account
(para. 5.23). Supporting documents thereof would not be submitted to the
Bank for reimbursement of su.h expenditures, but would be properly filed and
kept by ESCOM and the Forestry Department for auditing purposes (paras. 5.33
and 6.05). The closing date for the proposed credit would be December 31,
1994.
5.27     Special Accounts.  In order to expedite the execution of the
project and give implementing agencies rapid access to the credit, the
Government will open two Special Accounts at the Reserve Bank of Malawi.
Special Account A for ESCOM would have an initial deposit of US$1,500,000
and Account B for the Forestry Department an initial amount of US$2,000,000
Payments from the special accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures. IDA will replenish the Special Accounts as needed, in
accordance with established procedures.
5.28     Environmental Aspects.  The power components do not involve any
significant negative environmental impact, Tedzani III being an extension of
the existing group of power plants. No new dam will be constructed and
there will be no inundation in the area. Tedzani III will use an existing
daily regulating dam and the major construction features include the intake,
the power tunnel and the power house. The power plant will be located in a
gorge and, together with the surge tank, will be the main visible feature of
the scheme. The scheme is relatively small and construction activities will
not utilize large areas and disrupt any local activity of which there is
very little. Construction activities will not disrupt in a permanent way
the small population living in the area, the majority of whom are ESCOM
employees. No resettlement would be involved. Construction activities
will, however, result in a temporary retreat of the wild life in the area.
Temporary labor will exert additional pressure on the scarce woodfuel
resources of the locality. The Engineer would advise ESCOM on the need to
maintain, to the extent possible, the existing balance between fuelwood
supply and demand. The river flow at Tedzani Falls will also be reduced
when Tedzani III becomes operational, becominL evident only if the flow in
the river Shire were to diminish significantly below the present average.



- 40 -
During construction the Engineer would ensure that any surplus spoil would
be disposed of in an environmentally acceptable manner. The other
subcomponents of the power component, the substations and transmission
facilities, will have negligible effect on the environment.
5.29     Shire is an international river flowing into Mozambique.
Consequently, the Government of Malawi has notified the Government of
Mozambique of the proposed development of Tedzani III, indicating that its
implementation will not affect the interests of Mozambique, and requesting a
positive response on the subject. IDA has satisfied itself that the
development of Tedzani III will not in any way adversely affect the quantity
or the quality of water flowing into Mozambique. The Government of
Mozambique has responded affirmatively to the development of Tedzani III.
5.30     The fuelwood component of the Project is expected to have a
positive environmental impact. The Government plantations at Mulanje are on
very steep and fragile slopes that were covered with natural forest until
the early eighties but are now virtually denuded. Reforestation slould have
significant environmental benefits, including protection of the water
catchment area for the densely populated district of Mulanje and reduction
of soil erosion. On the conservation side, the introduction of more fuei-
efficient technologies for household stoves and tobacco curing should result
in savings of wood equivalent to clearfelling up to 12,500 hectares of
natural forest annually. If, in addition, under the charcoal component,
tobacco estates and urban households switch to using pine charcoal produced
from surplus wood (thinnings) from industrial plantations, this could
further reduce the clearfelling of the indigenous forest by between 10-
15,000 hectares a year. The various measures to promote wood production by
the private sector should have direct environmental benefits for the soil
and water in the areas where trees are planted, as well as in reducing the
pressure on the natural forests as cultivated wood replaces indigenous wood.
Finally, forestry staff will provide protect.;on of the natural forest in
heavily depleted or environmentally fragile areas where commercial cutting
has been restricted or prohibited. In these areas they will direct major
users to environmentally safe sources of wood, such as government fuelwood
or industrial plantations, forest reserves with surplus yields or waste wood
from land clearing activities. They will also work with the local
inhabitants to educate them on the sustainable utilization of the indigenous
forest, providing advice on improved silvicultural techniques including
cutting practices, enrichment plantings, protection from animals and fire
control, so as to ensure regeneration and optimal yields over time.
5.31     Proiect Risks.  The civil works of the proposed Project involve
construction of a short tunnel. In view of the experience gained from the
nearby tunnelling works, no major constructional difficulty which would
extend construction period or result in additional expenditures is
envisaged. To minimize this risk, confirmatory drilling would be carried
out in suspected fault zones of the tunnel route and at the power house
site- Similar civil works have been successfully carried out by ESCOM and
its contractors. The political and security situation in Southern Africa
may disrupt transport and delay delivery of machinery and equipment. As a
safeguard, in addition to providing double the normal transportation time in
assessing project implementation schedules, ESCOM would provide for
alternative routes of delivery in the bid documents. The risk of energy



- 41 -
deficits resulting from probable consecutive dry years would be mitigated
through the contingent plan of dredging the entry channel from Lake Malawi
to the Shire river in order to have access to additional live storage of the
Lake. There is also the risk that new generating capacity may be brought on
stream too early or too late if demand forecasts prove inaccurate or are
adversely affected by the political situation in the region thus affecting
the Project return. Likewise, the economic viability of softwood charcoal
would be affected if the market response to the availability of charcoal
proves modest or slows down.  Howeve:, demand is unlikely to be a constraint
in the light of the experience gained during the pilot phase of charcoal
production and in the light of demands by Mozambican refugees on Malawi's
woodfuel resources. The institutional risks which may hamper implementation
of project objectives particularly of the charcoal component are related to
the placement of suitably qualified staff for transfer of know-how and
project execution and eventual management ob. project output. The above
risks would in general be mitigated through the assistance of consultants
and through the planning and manpower training support of UNDP to the work
of the EPU.
5.32     The principal risk for the wood energy component lies in the
siniultaneous implementation of a multi-faceted package of policies and
programs which has not been tried before in such a comprehensive way in
Africa. Few, if any of the individual e'lements can have an impact alone -
each is dependent on and, in turn reinforces the impact of the other
components. Implementation of the strategy implies a significant increases
in the scope and complexity of the responsibilities of the Forestry
Department. Provision has therefore been made to strengthen the forestry
institutions and also to establish a Monitoring and Eva'luation Unit to
follow closely the progress of the various initiatives and take corrective
measures at an early stage. It is also intended to carry out an joint
indepth midterm review in 1990/91 which will allow for possible redesign of
the various pilot efforts as necessary.
5.33     Project Monitoring and Supervision.  Records and reports necessary
to monitor the progress of the Project and the achievement of its objectives
were discussed during project preparation and are agreed upon with the
Government and ESCOM during negotiations. Target dates for tendering,
contract awards, construction and erection phases of the Project as per
Annex 5.4 as well as relevant information and performance indicators per
Annexes 2.3 and 5.6 would be closely monitored by supervision missions.
ESCOM would prepare Project Completion Report for the power component within
six months of the Project completion.
5.34     The major tool for supervising the wood energy component of the
Project is the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit which will provide the data
and analysis essential for project management and Bank supervision. The M&E
Unit will prepare detailed annual reports covering the physical
implementation of the respective components in the previous year and annual
budgets for the ensuring year to be submitted to the Bank within three
months of the end of the fiscal year. As part of the supervision and review
process, the Forestry Planning Unit will set the targets against which the
M&E Unit will measure effectiveness. In addition, the Forestry Planning
Unit will provide the annual work plan, staffing targets and cost estimates
well before the beginning of the fiscal year. The M&E Unit will be



- 42 -
responsible for submission of the Project Completion report for the wood
energy component within six months of Project completion. The audit
accounts for the wood energy component including the auditing of the Special
Accounts (5.27) and the Statement of Expenditures (5.26) together with the
Auditor's Report will be submitted to the Bank within nine months of the end
of each financial year.
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS AND COST RECOVERY
Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi (ESCOM)
6.01    Financial Position and Past Operating Results.  The operating result
and cash flow of ESCOM for 1987 are based on audited accounts and shown in
detail in Annexes 6.1-6.2. The following table summarizes ESCOM's financial
performance over the past three years.
Table 6.1
Summary Cash Flow
1985      1986      1987
Units sold (GWh.)                  399        427        467
Average revenue (Tambala/kWh)    8.07        8.12       8.53
(Kwacha mln.)
Operating Revenues                 33.0       35.5      40.7
Operating Expenses (excl. depr.)   8.1         9.4      11.8
Net Internal Cash Generation       24.9       26.1      28.9
Borrowing                           4.8        3.3       6.9
Debt Service                       17.5       18.9      18.1
Capital Investment                 12.0       11.2      17.5
Net Cash Generation/Constr. (2)      70         76        53
6.02    During the past three years ESCOM's financial performance was good.
Adequate tariff increases were implemented regularly and together with good
cost control and excellent collection record (para. 6.04), the company's
cash flow position has been good. During the 1985-1987 period ESCOM
financed on the average about 66Z of its capital expenditures from
internally generated funds. This is a high level. However, ESCOM's capital
expenditures were rather low during this period, with no large projects
under coastruction. As a consequence of the good level of net income and
high self-financing of capital expenditures, ESCOM's debt/equity ratio
decreasfd from 67/33 in 1985 to 62/38 at the end of 1987. The following
table stumarizes ESCOM's financial position over the past three years which
is shown in detail in Annex 6.3.



- 43 -
Table 6.2
Summary Balance Sheet
1985     1986      1987
Assets
Net Fixed Assets in Operation         136.7    156.8    174.6
Works in Progress                      10.4       4.5     13.2
Current Assets
Cash                                    1.8       2.3      0.9
Receivables                             5.5       5.9      6.6
Other                                   5.7       7.0      9.9
Total Assets                       160.1    176.5    205.2
Equity & Liabilities
Equity                                 39.6      49.2     63.5
Long-term Debt                        102.7    110.0    122.2
Current and Other Liabilities          17.8      17.3     19.5
Total Equity & Liabilities         160.1    176.5    205.2
Rate of Return (on assets) (Z) a/        14.7      13.9      12.4
Debt/Equity Ratio a/                     67:33    65:35    62:38
a/ Based on partially revalued assets
6.03    The rate of return on average net fixed assets valued at historical
cost and adjusted for foreign exchange losses was at a high level os 14.7%
in 1985 declining to 12.42 in 1987 reflecting the large increase in asset
base due mainly to devaluation of the Kwacha of 22% that year. ESCOM
estimates that its assets are undervalued by about 75Z and.has requested IDA
to finance an asset revaluation study (para. 4.13 c (ii)). The rate of
return on revalued assets would then be around 7% in 1987 which is
considered satisfactory. During negotiations, agreements were reached with
ESCOM that (i) IDA's view will be taken into consideration in finalizing the
asset revaluation study proposals; (ii) the recommendations of the study as
so agreed with IDA will be implemented by March 31, 1991; and (iii) ESCOM
will revalue its assets annually thereafter according to a method to be
agreed upon with IDA.
6.04    Accounting and Auditing.  ESCOM's accounting records are well
maintained and the books are closed within two months after the financial
year ends. Budgeted performance seems to be well monitored and financial
reports to management are prepared monthly. Electricity bills are issued
monthly and collection is one of the best in the region, at about 60 days of
sales revenues. During negotiations, agreement was reached that ESCOM
continues to keep its accounts receivable to no more than 60 days of sales.
6.05    ESCOM's accounts are audited yearly by the international firm
Deloitte Haskins & Sells, and the arrangement is satisfactory. Audited
accounts are usually prepared within a month after closing of the books.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that ESCOM will continue to have
its accounts audited, including the Special Account (para 5.27) and the
Statement of Expenditures (para. 5.26), by independent accountants and sent
to the Bank within four months after ESCOM's financial year ends.
6.06    Tariffs.  The present tariff structure does not give appropriate
signals to electricity users about the difference in the costs of meeting



- 44 -
their demands in critical and non-critical periods of the day and of the
year. ESCOM has therefore requested the Bank to finance the preparation of
a tariff study to determine the appropriate structure and level of tariffs
at different delivery voltage levels. During negotiations agreement was
reached with ESCOM that the view of IDA will be taken into account in
finalizing the tariff study proposals and that the recommendations of the
study as so agreed with IDA will be implemented within the following 12
months, or such later date as may be acceptable to the Borrower and IDA.
6.07    ESCOM's average tariff level was increased by about 141 effective
April 1, 1988. The present average tariff at t9.85 (USc3.83 per KWh) is
sufficient to meet operating expenses, working capital requirements, debt
service and to finance a reasonable proportion of ESCOM's capital
expenditures from internally generated funds. The present average tariff is
among the lowest in Africa and reflects the efficiency of ESCOM together
with a mostly hydro based operation. Over the longer term the need for
increases in tariffs in real terms should be minimal (para. 6.10).
6.08    As an indication of the correct tariff level according to economic
principles, an estimate of the long run marginal cost (LRMC) has been
derived based on the identified least-cost development program (Annex 7.3).
The LRMC has been calculated as the average incremental cost of meeting
increases in demand and is estimated to be tlO.40 (USc4.04) per kWh sold in
early 1988 price terms at 8Z discount rate. The LRMC is close to the
present average financial yield. However, the present tariff structure is
not an accurate reflection of the structure of cost, particularly the demand
charge which is a large proportion of the economic cost of providing
additional system capacity. This aspect will be examined in the tariff
study (para. 6.06).
6.09    Future Financial Operations and Position.  The projected financial
statements of ESCOM for 1988 through 1995, together with notes and
assumptions used in these statements, are shown in Annexes 6.1 through 6.4.
Major financial indicators for selected years are shown in table 6.3. These
projections are based on a number of assumptions with respect to revalued
asset base, domestic inflation, currency exchange rates and load growth,
which are subject to considerable uncertainty (Annex 6.4). In particular,
assumptions with respect to load growth and future devaluations reflect
trends that may not prevail in the future. Additional adjustments may be
needed if these projected values change. Projected balance sheets for the
years ending December 31, 1988, through 1995 show, under the above
assumptions, that the debt/equity ratio 15/ will remain at the 43:57 level
during the latter years of the 1988-95 period reflecting the need for steady
borrowing in view of the continued implementation of large projects.
ESCOM's debt/equity ratio is considered conservative.
15/ Based on revalued assets.



- 45 -
Table 6.3
ESCOM FinaialIii7Tndicators
1989     1992      1995
Average tariff (t/kWh)               11.1      14.7     21.7
Average tariff (USc//kWh)             3.6       3.9      5.2
Debt Service Coverage                 1.6       2.1      1.8
Net Cash Generation/Constr. (Z)        42        35       31
Rate of Return (2)                    6.1       6.4      7.1
Debt Equity Ratio                   37:63    43:57    43:57
Accounts Receivable (days)             60        60       60
6.10    To meet future operating costs, working capital and debt
requirements, as well as financing a reasonable part of its investment
program, ESCOM would require timely tariff revisions. Based on the
assumptions explained in Annex 6.4 and the resulting financial projections
detailed in Annex 6.1, tariff increases would require to be implemented at
the rates of 12X, 15?, 72, 82, and 12? for 1989 through IL93, respectively,
and 15? for 1994 and 1995. After adjustment for projected domestic
inflation, the tariff increases (expressed in tambala/kWh) would be on
average less than 32 p.a. between 1988 and 1995. Such increases in constant
terms ire quite modest, given the large investment program.
6.11    The proposed tariff revisions, coupled with projected sales,
operating cost a"d capital investments, are expected to generate adequate
funds to finance about 30? of ESCOM's capital investments from internally
generated funds during the 1989-1995 period. The pro,ected operations of
ESCOM indicate that its future financial performance would be satisfactory
with a debt service coverage varying between 1.6 and 2.4 during this period.
Because these projected results are subject to considerable variations given
the uncertainties surrounding the projected macro-economic variables and the
future availability of foreign exchange to finance the large investment
program, ESCOM will need to review regularly the level of its tariffs (para.
6.12). During negotiations, agreements were reached that ESCOM will not
incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of its revenues and expenditures
show that the projected internal cash generation is at least 1.5 times the
projected debt service requirement on all debt, including the debt to be
incurred.
6.12    Under the previous lending operation to ESCOM in 1977 (Ln. 1387/1388
and Cr.691), ESCOM's financial performance was linked to an 8Z rate of
return on average revalued net fixed assets in operation. In view of the
uncertainty of the current value of ESCOM's assets (para 6.03), it is
preferable to monitor ESCOM's future financial performance to a cash
generation covenant. Therefore, during negotiations, agreements were
reached that (i) ESCOM shall generate sufficient cash to finance yearly from
internal sources the equivalent of not less than 302 of the average annual
capital expenditures incurred or expected to be incurred over a three year
period, comprising the year in question, and the ones immediately preceding
and following such year; (ii) each year, no later than 90 days prior to the
end of the fiscal year ESCOM and the Government shall review with IDA
whether ESCOM will meet the requirements set out in (i); and (iii) in the
event such review shows that the requirement set out in (i) will not be met,



- 46 -
ESCOM and the Government shall promptly take all necessary measures in order
to meet such requirements.
6.13    Proposed Financing Plan.  A detailed funds flow statement for ESCOM
is shown in Annex 6 2. Summary financing plan for 1989 through 1994 is
shown in Table 6.4.
Table 6.4
ESCOM Financing Plan: 1989-1994
---Million----       Percent of
K       US$ a/   Total
Application of Funds
Construction Expenditures
Proposed Project                   235.6     61.8        32
Other                              423.1    114.0        58
Total                          658.7    175.8        WE
Interest During Constr. (IDC)
Proposed Project                    33.7      8.6         5
Other                               35.9       9.4        5
Total                           69.6     18.0 l-
Total Requirements           728.3    193.8        100
Sources of Funds
Internal Generation                     434.6    116.6        60
Less: Debt Service                      198.0      53.7        27
Incr. in working capital            12.2      3.3         2
Net Internal Generation      224.4      3W.9        Ty
Consumers' Dep. & Contr.                 29.3       7.9         4
Borrowing                               474.6    126.3         65
Total Sources                  728.3    193.8       100
a/ Expressed in current US$ at variable exchange rates (Annex 6.4, para 4).
6.14    During the project period from 1989 through 1994, ESCOM's
construction program is expected to cost K728 million (US$194 million),
including interest during construction of K70 million (US$18 million). The
proposed project (of which construction of the Tedzani hydro plant
constitutes 98Z of total project costs) represents about 37Z or K269 million
(US$70 million) of the total investment program during this period.
Internal cash generation, after covering debt service and increases in
working capital, will produce about 31Z of the funds required for
construction expenditures during the 1989-1994 period. Borrowing is
expectea to provide 65Z (US$126 million) of ESCOM's total requirements of
funds of which about 60Z of total borrowing required have been committed and
35Z are in the process of being agreed upon (para. 5.06). Consumers'
deposit and contribution totaling 4Z are e-rpected to close the financing
gap.
Forestry Department
6.15    Wood Energy Component.  No financial rate of return has been
computed for the wood energy component of the Project as the bulk of



- 47 -
expenditures for the program do not yield an output that is sola. However,
it is estimated that the cost recovery stumpage rate for the Government
plantation at Mulanje is MR13.60/stacked m3.  Hence, if the stumpage rate
were merely maintained at its current level in real terms (i.e., increases
only compensated for inflation) - the financial rate of return on the
plantation would be -8.4Z. This demonstrates the urgent necessity for
stumpage rate increases in real terms so that incentives exist for wood
production by the private sector and the Government can recover more of the
cost of its investments in plantations. Therefore, under the Project, the
Government is implementing a phased increase in stumpage fees for wood cut
for commercial purposes with the objective of reaching replacement cost by
1996. The proposed Energy Pricing Study will recommend the appropriate
level of stumpage fees based on the costs that would be incurred to meet
additional demand for wood (Para 1.12).
6.16    Project related expenditures of revenue collected by the Forestry
Department is shown in Table 6.5 below. Average annual recurrent
expenditure associated with the wood energy component is around MX 4.1
million (in July 1988 constant prices), and total expenditure after the
first year of the Project averages about MK 5.5 million per annum.  It is
anticipated that revenue collection by the Forestry Department should
increase substantially from its present very low levels (around MK 2.6
million in 1987/88) given the improved revenue collection system and the
increases in stumpage fees for commercial wood. Wood used by rural
households will continue to be free. This leaves roughly 3.5 million solid
m3 per annum, or 40Z of total consumption, potentially subject to stumpage
fees (see Table 4.1). It is assumed that, under the new revenue collection
system, fees can be collected for 60Z of urban domestic consumption, urban
and rural industries, and 10 of estates consumption, yeilding a total of
1.1 million solid m3 on which fees would be collected (see Working Paper No.
2 in Second Wood Energy Project Files). If the stum3age rate were merely to
be maintained at its current level of MK6.43/solid mj (equivalent to
MK4.50/stacked m3) revenue collected would be around MK7.1 million annually
(in July 1988 prices). Assuming that the stumpage fee will increase by 10%
a year in real terms, annual revenue collection should be over MK10 million
by the final year of Project implementation. From a budgetary perspective,
therefore, revenues under the wood energy component should comfortably
exceed expenditures.
Table 6.5
Prolect Related Forestry Department Cash Flow
1990     1991      1992     1993      1994
(million MK in July 1988 prices)
Recurrent Expenditure           4.4       4.1        4.1     4.0        4.2
Total Expenditure               14.5      4.8        4.9     5.5        6.5
Revenue Collection               7.1      7.8        8.5     9.4       10.3



- 48 -
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Electric Power Components
7.01        The updated forecast of electricity demand in Malawi shows that,
for the base case scenario and after installation of the fifth 20MW unit at
the existing Nkula B hydroelectric power plant in 1991, additional
generating capacity will be needed by 1994. The two options for satisfying
this demand are: (a) the installation of additional hydroelectric
generating capacity on the Shire River, where all the existing hydro
capacity is located: and (b) imports from a neighboring country, either
Zambia or Mozambique. Zambia would need its present excess capacity from
mid-nineties and delivery of firm power to Malawi might not be possible.
The security situation in Mozambique makes it difficult to consider
interconnection at tle present stage. A third possibility is a thermal
alternative in the form of a gas turbine (US$400/kW) or a diesel plant
(US$800/kW). The very high cost of fuel in Malawi rules out the thermal
alternative. (On the basis of information on a 20MW gas turbine, recently
quoted for Bolivia, fuel cost for Malawi is estimated at US cents 27/KWh
generated. Maintenance charges, including spares, are estimated at
US$750,000 per year). In addition, in light of Malawi's experience on the
instability of supply for imported energy resource (coal and petroleum),
neither the thermal option nor the interconnection is a politically viable
solution. Under option (a), the two main alternatives are the Tedzani ,.1
and Kapichira hydro projects. Analysis of the present value of the costs
for different sizes and sequencing of these two projects, using alternative
demand scenarios and interest rates, shows that the least-cost solution is
the commissioning of Tedzani III in advance of Kapichira, and that the
least-cost configuration for Tedzani III is 2 x 25 MW (Annex 7.1). The
electric power components of the project therefore are consistent with the
least-cost power development plan for Malawi.
7.02        The economic rate of return of the power system investments is
the discount rate at which the present value of their capital and operating
costs equals the present value of their incremental benefits! For the
purposes of the economic analysis, a percentage of the cost of planned
transmission and distribution investment is added to the project cost
stream. Since the transmission and distribution investment is also needed
to improve the reliability and efficiency of the existing system, the
proportion of Tedzani capacity to total system capacity is used in deriving
this percentage. The foreign exchange components are converted at a shadow
exchange rate of MK 2.65/ US$1.0, equivalent to a shadow exchange rate
premium of 5?. This adjusts for the estimated over-valuation of the Kwacha
in early 1988. The benefits are taken to be the additional energy demands
that the investments are able to satisfy over their useful life (35 years).
The energy benefits are valued at Tambala ll/Kwh (USc4.2/kWh), the average
tariff that ESCOM will need to charge from 1995 to cover its financial
costs, expressed in 1988 constant prices. Because it does not reflect
consumers' willingness to pay, the tariff yield is considered to be an
extremely conservative measure of the project's economic benefits. On this
basis, the electric power components of the project are estimated to have an
economic rate of return of 10.72 (Annex 7.2) which is above the opportunity
cost of capital, estimated to be about 8? (which is between the



- 49 -
international coRt of capital and cost of capital in neighboring countries
not subject to similar transport constraints).
Charcoal Components
7.03        The economic benefit of the charcoal component is best
approximated by the economic value of 'he fuel or fuels for which the
charcoal will substitute. In the industrial sector, which is the major
potential market in the short-to-medium term, this substitute fuel is
imported coal. The 1988 market price of coal in Blantyre, the most distant
major charcoal market, was K185/ton.   At a shadow exchange rate premium of
5Z, the economic cost of coal ts K200/ton. The cost of charcoal transport
from the Viphya plantation to Blantyre is K120. Hence the economic netback
value of charcoal ex-Viphya to Blantyre is K200-K120 - K80/ton.
7.04        The production system to be established and maintained by the
project will have a capacity of 11,000 tons per annum (tpa). Sales under an
earlier pilot project were running at a rate of 6,000 tpa in 1987.
Industrial coal demand is currently over 40,000 tpa, 70? of which is met by
unreliable imports. Softwood charcoal could potentially capture a
significant portion of this market. In,addition, it is a cost-effective
potential substitute for hardwood charcoal in household use, and a possible
substitute for fuelwood in tobacco curing and tea drying. Sales are
therefore likely to be close or equal to production capacity. Sales are
conservatively forecast at 3,000 tpa in 1988, rising to 7,000 tpa in 1989,
and to 10,000 tpa in 1990 and for the balance of the assumed 10-year life of
the project component.
7.05        The economic costs of the project component total K4.9 million
(1988 constant prices). These exclude K1.8 million in sunk costs for the
preparatory phase, which were financed from the IDA Wood Energy II project.
The foreign exchange components of the cost (the consultants' fees and
vehicles) were converted at a shadow exchange rate of K2.65/US$1.0 to adjust
for the estimated overvaluation of the Kwacha in early 1988. Based on these
costs and the estimated netback value of the benefits, the charcoal
component has an economic rate of return of about 18? (Annex 7.4).
Wood Energy Component
7.06        The principal benefits from the wood energy component of the
Project would be the stimulation of private fuelwood production and wood
conservation. Directly the project would provide for the establishment of
about 17,150 hectares of smallholder woodlots (supported by a network of 60
nurseries) and around 2,750 hectares of Government plantations at Mulanje,
producing a total of 212,000 m3 of wood per annum (see Annex 7.5). However,
these estimates of wood production that result directly from the nursery and
plantation components would likely represent the minimum levels of wood
production attributable to the Project. In addition, it is anticipated that
wood production by the private sector (e.g. schools, farmers, tobacco
estates, charcoal makers) will increase substantially in response to other
measures under the Project such as the stumpage rate increase and
improvements in revenue collection, the increased restrictions/prohibitions
on commercial cutting in the natural forest, publicity campaigns about the
importance of tree planting, extension activities and tree planting



- 50 -
incentives. Overall, therefore, the output of wood resulting from the
Project is expected to exceed significantly as shown in Annex 7.5.
7.07        In calculating the economic rate of return, the woodoutput from
the Project is valued at the economic cost of supplying the same quantity of
fuel through the most likely alternative. 16/ Continued depletion of the
existing natural forest is most likely alternative way for users to obtain
their energy needs. There are significant environmental costs resulting
from depletion of the natural forest. While these are difficult to
quantify, a rough estimate is made in terms of the possible losses in
agricultural productivity (see Annex 7.5). Output from the smallholder
woodlots is valued at the environmental costs of depletion plus the
opportunity costs of the labor spent gatherirg wood rather than in other
productive activities. Output from the plantation is valued at the
environmental costs of depletion plus the transportation costs of fetching
wood. For the smallholder woodlots, the economic rate of return is
estimated at 19.5Z (Annex 7.6) and for the plantation at Mulanje, the rate
of return is estimated at 14.4? (Annex 7.6). In fact, the returns wouild be
higher because the woodlots and plantations would help control environmental
degrada-ion in the planted areas, (particularly at Mulanje where
deforestation has caused soil erosion and landslides and is threatening the
watershed) and these benefits have not been taken into account. Stimulation
of small-holder multi-purpose tree planting will provide a ready on-form
source of fuelwood supply and discourage the burning of crop residues and/or
animal dung which instead can be used for feeding to livestock and/or
contributing to soil fertility thereby improving crop yields. No rate of
return has been calculated for the institutional development and support
services due to difficulties in quantifying the value of the benefits of
these components. 17/
7.08        No attempt has been made to calculate the rate of return on the
energy conservation component, because of the pilot nature of the stove
component and because the bulk of the costs of the tobacco curing energy
efficiency initiative have been meft from other projects. However, the
introduction of more energy efficient technologies for household stoves and
tobacco curing has the potential to yield substantial wood savings. The
improved stoves can achieve fuel savings of between 30-45Z, resulting in
annual savings of around 285 kg of charcoal per stove. Assuming that
approximately 500 stoves per month are produced and marketed during the
pilot production stage, this would imply annual savings of around 1,700 tons
of charcoal, resulting in savings of wood equivalent to clearfelling about
310 hectares of indigenous forest annually. However, if stove production
and marketing becomes fully commercialized, the potential demand for stoves
and associated fuel savings are much greater. Current charcoal consumption
16/ The existing local market for fuelwood is distorted - the price of
fuelwood reflects the present low private costs of clearing the forest
rather than the long-term cost of replacement.
17/ Indigenous forest management, extension, strengthening of FD,
Monitoring and Evaluation and Planning units, research and training.



- 51 -
by urban households is around 50,000 tons a year, necessitating the
clearfelling of about 9,000 hectares of natural forest annually. If
eventually all households were to switch to the improved stoves,
clearfellings of the natural forest would be reduced by around 3,150
hectares per year. In tobacco curing, wood consumption can be reduced from
a national average of 43 stacked m3 per ton of tobacco cured to between 10-
15 stacked m3 by utilizing an improved furnace and better management and
curing techniques. If eventually the entire crop of Virginia tobacco were
to be cured using the improved techniques, this would result in a saving of
around 600,000 stacked m3 per year - equivalent to clearfelling 10,500
hectares of natural forest each year.
7.09       Successful large-scale commercialization of softwood charcoal
production would assist further in reducing the depletion of the natural
forest. The improved stoves have been designed for use with pine charcoal.
Although consumers prefer indigenous charcoal, supplies are drying up due to
the Government's restrictions on charcoal making in the natural forest which
is facilitating the market penetration of-pine charcoal. If eventually all
50,000 tons of houshold charcoal made from indigenous hardwood were
substituted by soft wood charcoal, deforestation would be reduced
substantially. In addition, recent trials demonstrated the technical
feasibility of using pine charcoal rather than wood in tobacco curing.
About 402 of estates have serious fuel supply problems, implying a potential
annual market for softwood charcoal of about 20,000 tons. If around 40Z of
the total Virginia tobacco crop were to be cured using softwood charcoal
this would reduce clearfelling of natural woodlands by between 2-6,000
hectares annually.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AXD RECOMMENDATION
Agreements
8.01       During negotiations agreements were reached by IDA, the
Government and ESCOM that:
a)    IDA's view will be taken into consideration prior to the
Government implementing any major reform in ESCOM (para. 2.07);
b)    ESCOM and the Government will conclude agreements by December
31, 1989 for financing the construction of the 132 kV line from
Nkula to Lilongwe (para 3.17);
c)    ESCOM and the Government will:  (i) review the power investment
program yearly with IDA and revise it according to agreements
between ESCOM, the Government and IDA; and (ii) not undertake
any major project not included in the investment program in
excess of USS 5 million, unless such major project is
economically and technically justified (para. 5.07);
d)    IDA's view will be taken into consideration in finalizing the
asset revaluation study proposals and the recommendations or the
study as so agreed with IDA will be implemented by March 31,



- 52 -
1991, and ESCOM will revalue its assets annually thereafter
according to a method to be agreed with IDA (para 6.03);
e)    ESCOM will continue to keep its accounts receivable to no more
than 60 days of sales (para 6.04);
f)    ESCOH will continue to have its accounts audited, including the
Special Account and the Statement of Expenditures, by independenc
accountants and sent to the Bank within four months after ESCOM's
financial year ends (para. 6.05);
g)    IDA's view will be taken into consideration in finalizing the
tariff study and the recommendations of the study so agreed with
IDA will be implemented within the following 12 months or such
later date as may be acceptable to the Borrower and IDA (para.
6.06);
h)    ESCOM will not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of
its revenues and expenditures shows that the projected internal
cash generation is at least 1.5 times the projected debt service
requirement on all debt, including the debt to be incurred
(para. 6.11);
i)    ESCOM shall:  (i) finance yearly from internal sources the
equivalent of not less than 30Z of its average capital
expenditures incurred or expected to be incurred over a three
year period; (ii) review annually with the Government and IDA
whether ESCOM will meet the requirement set out in (i); and
(iii) together with the Government take all necessary measures
in the event such reviews show that the requirement set out in (i)
will not be met (para. 6.12);
j)    The Forestry Department will continue to maintain a coordinator
with qualifications, experience and terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA (Para. 2.19);
k)    The Government will make regular increases in the stumpage rate
as recommended in the Energy Pricing Study in order to reach a
full cost recovery stumpage rate by end 1994 (para 4.10);
1)    In order to encourage farmers to plant more trees the Government
will provide an incentive to smallholder farmers who register
their seedlings with the FD consisting of payment of five
tambala for each tree, or such other amount as may be agreed upon
by the Borrower and the Association from time to time, which
survived two years after planting (para 4.15);
m)    A joint mid-term review of the wood energy component will be
carried out by IDA and the Government after two years of project
implementation (para. 5:32); and
n)    The Forestry Department will have the accounts for the wood
energy component audited, including the Special Account and
Statements of Expenditures, and sent to IDA together with the



- 53 -
Auditor's Reports within nine months of the end of each
financial year (para 5.34).
8.02      Conditions of Effectiveness
a)    Execution of an onlending agreement for the proposed IDA credit
between the Government and ESCOM (para 5.17); and
b)    Notification by Austria that all conditions precedent to initial
disbursement of the Austria loan have been fulfilled (para. 5.18).
8.03      Conditions of Disbursements
a)    The two vacant positions of principal and senior economists in
EPU will be filled prior to disbursing IDA funds to finance the
energy study (para. 2.17); and
b)    Appointment of a Project Manager for the power component (para.
5.20).
8.04      Recommendation
With the above agreements, the Project is suitable for an IDA
credit of SDR34.8 million (US$46.7 million equivalent) to the
Republic of Malawi at standard terms, with a 40 year repayment
period.



- 54 -
ANNEX 1.1
MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
HYDROELECTRIC POTENTIAL OF MALAWI
Potential         Status, Installed
Basin                                MW                  MW
Shire Valley
Nkula Falls                       124                  104
Tedzani Falls                      90                   40
Kholombidzo                        140
Kapichira Falls                    120
Mpatamanga Gorge                   120
Subtotal                     594                  144
Others
South Rukuru I                     102
South Rukuru II                    125
Bua                                 87
Subtotal                     314
Grand Total                  908                  144



MALAWI
ENERGY I-PROJECT
ENERCY BALANCE 1987
('000 too)
PRIMARY                                                                        TOTAL         NON          TOTAL        COMPOSITION
ENERGY                       PETROLEUM  ELECTRICITY  ETHANOL   COAL    COMMERCIAL  COMMERCIAL ENERGY (4)                    X
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__---------------------------------
Production                           --           468.         8.3      11.1          88.0      3,042.0    3,108.0            95.8
Imports                           128.6              --        --       16.7         143.3            --       143.3           4.4
Change in Stocks (1)               (1. 1)            __      (1.0)      (4.0)         (8.1)           __         (8.1)          __
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-------__--------
TOTAL                             125.6           48.6        8.3       27.8         203.2      3,042.0    3,245 2          100.0
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__--------
Transf.& Other Losses (2)          (4.2)           (7.7)       __       (0.S)        (12.4)       (386.5)      (378.9)       (11.6)
NET SUPPLY                        121.3           38.9        7.3       23.3         190.8      2,875.5    2,888.3            88.4
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__--------
Exports (3)                        11.1              --        --         --          11.1            --         11.1          0.3
FINAL CONSUMPTION                 110.2           38.9        7.3       23.3         179.7      2,675.6      2,865.2          88.1
Ind/Commerce                       34.1           32.3         __      23.0           89.4         168.3       247.7           8.6
Transport                          58.8              --       7.3         --          65.9            --         e6.9          2.6
Agriculture                        12.9              --        --         --          12.9         820.6       833.5          22.1
Household                           4.1             6.4        --        0.3          10.8      1,898.8      1,907.4          6.86
Power                               0.5             0.2        --         --           0.7            __          0.7           --
EGY CONS. MIX (X)                   3.9             1.4       0.2        0.8           6.3          93.7       100.0        100.0
COM.EGY CONS. MIX (X)              61.3           21.7        4.0       13.0         100.0
NOTES:  (1)  Figures in brackets indicate an increase in stocks.
(2) Figures in brackets indicate losses due to transformation or transmission
(both technical and non-technical). Diesel generation transformation losses are included here.
(3) Petroleum exports indicate bunker sales to aviation.
(4) Non-Commercial energy calculations are based on data quoted in Economic Report 2988, Malawi
Government
SOURCES: Mission estimates based on data collected from Oil Companies,
Petroleum Commission, MIDCOR, ESCOM, and ETHCO



MALAVW
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION AT GOVERNMENT LEVEL
FOR
MEDIUM TERM PLANNING PROCESS (ALL PARASTATALS)
|Committee considers plan and LTE's fct
DSB coordlnktes meeth' of Teosuy. Parent Ministry.
Parstatal Management and EP & D representative
Attenckwc                          Att"endance
PARENT                             ~~~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT OF
STA1PJTORY BODIES         Trexsur Informs
DSBove  ofmlb to D58
financial constraints
opessubmission toDS
Parent Minitry provides                                                                         DSB ciculotes p stras:tal with
sectorl pdicy guidelines                     Imedhterm Inftotn on
BOAQD OF IRTSTEES                               financial constraints
Parastata deveops plan
and financial forecast
4PARASTATAL. MANAGEMENT
World Bank-42646 2
lrJ



MALAYA
ENERGY I PROJECT
ELECTRICllY SUPPLY COMMISSION OF MALANW
Orgnization Chart
I
Genw mnw
,    .                 F                                     *         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AleO Ma-  (S-1h)
r  cbl                                           Er                                 av0 n0 MOrKor (cnothw)
L    clmftonw                                E &M  notew                                  A-0 monoo.
P~~~~~cfeci~~~~~~~.  ___________                        _    ______ ______
Il-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l ~ ~~~~                                                                                                 l l 
I 5 $ [ = |~~~~~~~~~~~omo                        I T           I_ I I | | |I                                           _      v
b~~~~~~~~~~~~NR                                    El.5Zb 1hlCC     &  I    i, p ---1  I
l l ACCt l l l l | | OWla3r 1 1 i Ert | | |  I IIWld B                             I  IE
W1W                  4 ~~~~~~~~~~~C&M I    4 kaorwr_ 114. P  |rg-IJW
1 3iEL D~PS9-I  CCntO   EV .\I 1
pmaomcr                                                                            Z                 1 ZE 1 1  * 
co~~I srltIl4I  



MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
NEW STRUCTURE OF THE FORESTRY DEPARTMENT
Mntlstry of Fbrtry
anl fbtuda Rwum
Mtnister
Fpartmnt of Forestry                                                                  r
Chief Fbrestry Otficer                                                              k     t1      Sect Ion
Vlr*IyA                                    I                                                                                      Frnartial Cnrtroller
Plantatti
Forestry ID.elopm. Utyvirmn          Forestry Wealm DIvisv                       Forestry Supprt                              OffaaL Srvire s 6 eral
Thpty Chlef Forestry Officmr          1luty Chief tbrestry Offie*r                         Dsvff s                                   Serv1s Sectton
_   r        0  hie Brgy IP/oiect Cmntor)               De1        Chief lb.try Officer              SLnior Exett ve OFfflr
E ~~~~~~~~~~~.rsy  - earch                                         ColleF   |  Foresft y Par r
tlt  iew    t            tfa    lnst0e               ttenrl                                             r             | of Rb.try         PrincipalFwty  fte
Fbvt h  iv                                              Sect1cn .ru a  .Lnair  Cn.1
Asibsa1it Cdhf               Asstant Olef              Odef Fla 
stry Officer                 Fbretry Offtacr            O(ftr                                          _                                          6 W
i-nl
00
I ~    ~          ~         ~          t In                                                         
Mqtgt_u_t                             __~ ____u~  Ode  _rnr                               _-lrj____
Fresbt  A&Av :y Services                     ||Wood  I naI I                                                      ttrs g} P-1 ad   O nerml officer 
|   8n   |         |              8                 |  |              8r                 1  |         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Serlces  8
Anxitstant Chlof Fbzestry OffiL-Tr                    Agaitart adef lrstry Officerl             Plncipl Asnta                          P l ersl Officer
|TM m   |re FmttwE  |    |  bilty  |    ln:tont  met          Pa1v|Blae|[Ilatyre                               |                       '~    1 a
stl   tl|   Sectn           11 Sct           I ||aren  <Taw   |           t | I Poles||ec||nral Servito
|   Sct on  l l   | L              | |   Sectlm      |  | ~Plmntattw          ft|Pctect|L                                                    
3 %SttirwOff EWEt 1
lb
124 flltrlct Torn try Off Icfe
27 Ann O      ctial Rits                                                                                                                                                                                    0h
17 be,ein Collection Fbte



ENERGY I PROJECT
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY COMISSION OF MALAWI 3/
SELECTED PERFGRSANCE ID)ICAT0RS
--------Actual-----          ----------------------Projected----------------------------
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994        1995
Instalied Capacity (MW)
Hydro                   124.8   144.6   144.8   144.6   144.6   144.6   144.6   164.8   164.6   214.6   214.6
Diesel                    8.0     8.0     8.0      8.0     8.0     8.0      8.0     8.0     8.0      8.0     8.0
Cssturbino               16.0    16.0    16.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0
Total               147.6   167.6  167.6   167.6   167.8   167.6   167.6   187.o   187.8   237.8   237.6
Dependable Capacity (MYW)e./ 120.0   140.0   140.0   140.0   140.0   140.0   140.0   160.0   160.0   210.0   210.0
Peak Demand (MW)              81.8    94.8    97.2   107.7   718.0   124.3   136.6   141.9   148.7   160.8   176.2
Generaticn (GWh)             475.8   511.5   S80.8   603.2   647.2   688.1   740.9   782.3   822.8   890.8   971.3
Sales (GWh)                  390.1   426.5  486.7   600.6   637.8   573.1   621.8   659.4   899.2   784.1   839.9
Auxilary Consumption (CWh)    2.4      2.6      2.6     3.1     3.'      3.5     3.8     4.0      4.3     4.7      6.1
Losses
CWh                      76.1    82.5    92.6    99.6   108.1   111.6   118.3   118.9   110.3   122.0   125.3
(X)                     15.8    1C.1    16.6    18.5    16.4    16.2    16.9    15.2    14.5    13.7    13.0
kWh Generated per Litre
Diesel                    3.37    3.3B    3.16    3.67    3.57    3.57    3.57    3.57    3.67    3.57    3.57
Gasturbine                0.97    1.42    0.98    0.97    0.97    0.97    C.97    0.97    0.97    0.97    0.97
No. of Connections ('000)    31.0    33.3    36.6    38.1    40.8    43.7    46.8    60.1    53.6    57.3    61.3
No. of Employees              2041    2100    2475    2100    2100    2100    2100    2100    2100    2120    2120
Connections/Employee          16.2    16.9    14.4    18.1    19.4    20.8    22.3    23.9    25.6    27.0    28.9
1/ For interconnected system only.
2 Based on outage records.
z



MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY COMMISSION OF MALAWI
Post Sales and Numbers of Consumers
1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1976  1978  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1988  1987
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM
DOMESTIC
Low Density
Consumers         3772  3892  4013  5008  5493  5978  8255  6889  7267  7777  8477  8995  10014 10544 112S3  12348  13332  14259
CWh              20.33  21.49 23.08 28.97  30.03 33.19 3a.8e  37.83  38.45  42.82 45.49 48.24 50.79 52.78  64.84  56.58 61.62 64.55
High Density
Consumers         2518  2972  3411  4580  5589  5953  8470  7468  7981  8644  9098  9363 10336  10708 11513  12200 12778 12946
GWh               1.27  1.72  2.37  3.16  4.24  6.47  8.63  8.30  8.09  8.71  7.95  10.28 10.73  9.98 1:.09  11.8  12.56  12.49
CENERAL
Consumers         1887  1791  19.68  2435  2846  2892  3017  3243  3540  3784  4062  4273  4797  5038  6629  8062  6618  7161
GWh              19.91  22.27  25.08 31.81  38.60 24.04  28.30 28.98 33.41 34.12 37.70 40.98 43.07 47.36  60.92  55.58 62.02 68.27
POWER
Small
Consumers          105   112   108   127   136   174   182   191   215   233   241   252   300   325   347   371   379   398    0%
GWh              19.84  21.02 24.37  31.89 33.81  57.78 61.72 68.37 78.08 01.47  90.52 92.89 121.67 140.87 160.13 149.08 164.12 170.91    0
Large
Consumers            7      8     8      8      8    10    10    10    11    13    14    13           5      S      5      6      5     5
CWh              62.10 56.81 71.41  79.41 82.13 112.58 117.86 118.29 126.49 168.73 184.94 14C.72 126.90 141.44 136.87 117.89 125.61 149.30
EXPORT
Consumers            1      1     1      1      1      1      1     1      1      1      1      1      1     1      1      1      1     0
GWh               1.28  1.47   1.90  2.19   1.73  1.48   1.52   1.20  1.33  1.28   1.36  1.84   1.51   1.25  1.59   1.09  0.71  0.00
TOTAL
Consumers         8090  8776  9609  12157 13871  15017  16931  18 95  19868 20904  21891  23411 25692 27122 28848  30987  33111  34759
CWh             114.73 123.78 148.19 175.42 190.24 234.52 260.78 282.77 286.86 327.13 347.96 338.70 364.67 393.48 40S.23 390.80 428.52 466.52
ISOLATED SYSTEMS
Consumers          819   783  2189   667   748   653   888   S88   875   790  1064  1682   241   283   325   350   386   469
GWh               7.19  8.87  10.95  2.65  3.06  1.70  2.20  2.53  2.26  3.25  3.89  4.73  3.14  0.39  0.57  0.88  0.89  1.09
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__------------------------------------------------------------------__
TOTAL ESCOM
Consumers  8709  9539  11698  12814  14617  15570  17819  18881  20343 21894  22946 24993 25933 27385  28973 31337  33497  35228
Growth Rate %          9.6  22.8   9.6  14.1   8.6  13.2   7.0   7.9   6.6   5.8   8.9   3.8   5.6   5.8   8.2   6.9   5.2
CWh 121.92 132.46 169.14 178.07 193.29 238.22 252.98 286.30 288.10 330.38 351.84 343.43 357.81 393.86 405.80 391.49 427.71 468.61
Growth Rate %          8.6  20.2  11.9   8.5  22.2   7.1   4.9   8.8  14.7   8.5  -2.4   4.2  10.1   3.0  -3.5   9.2   9.2
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__--------------------------------------------------------------------
NOTES: 1. Change in shares of General A Small Power consumers in 1980 due to transfer of Ceneral consumers with demands ower 2SkVA to Small Power
2. Decreased share of Large Power consumers in 1987 due to transfer of 8 consumers to Small Power category in 1982.
SOURCE: Kennedy and Donkin
Iw



HALAwI
ENEROY I PRr JIT
ELECrRICrTY SUPPLY COKIISSION OF M4LAWI
Interconnected System S.l. and COneration. Actual (85-87) and Projected
8.n. Scenario
Crowth U
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992    193    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    19"9   2C00               1989-2000
SALES (CWh):
LOW oESm                  55.56  61.52  66.68  71.80  78.11  79.59  86.60  90.90   96.53  105.82  116.80  128.28  140.00  152.82  166.82  162.10                  8.34
CENERAL-Southrn+Li long..  45.89  51.12  55.26  59.97  63.81  68.64  75.26  81.18   87.55   97.58  109.83  122.49  135.76  150.45  166.72  184.73                10.14
-Other Region-      9.33  10.90  12.83  18.98  15.54  17.43  19.91  22.38   28.07   29.03   83.77   39.26   45.11   51.79   69.43   68.15                 14.58
-TOTAL             58.22  62.02  67.59  78.95  79.85  86.07  9S.17  103.83  112.62  126.61  143.10  161.78  180.87  202.24  226.15  252.88                11.11
HIGH DENSm                11.80  12.55  12.29  13.05  13.94  15.00  16.84  17.61   18.99   20.54   22.30   24.21   26.10   28.13   80.32   32.68                  8.05
SKALL POWSE-Soiuthern     98.46  98.50 114.11  123.80 130.28 138.63 150.38 160.44  171.14  190.62  213.43  238.94  264.63  293.04  824.66  359.20                9.66
-Other Regiona  86.84  58.42  69.53  77.47  83.72  91.46 101.85 111.54  122.11  189.88  160.85  184.19  209.27  287.78  270.00  306.60                12.52
-TOTAL        158.30 156.92  183.64 201.27 214.00 230.09 252.23 271.98  293.25  830.20  378.78  423.18  473.90  830.77  89.66  668.80                 10.87
LARCE POWER:
-SUCOMA              40.34  47.58  40.97  41.80  41.64  41.99  42.81  42.64   42.98   48.33   43.69   44.06   44.44   44.84   45.24   45.6S                  0.84
-Slantyre Water Board 45.02  46.74  55.79  57.18  o8.62  61.18  64.94  67.25   69.14   71.60   74.34   77.18   60.68   83.76   87.15   91.07                 4.09
-Portland Cement      9.20  11.30  12.25  12.48  12.72  12.95  18.18  13.44   18.64   18.86   14.08   14.29   14.50   14.70   14.90   15.09                  1.S5
-Oav;d Whitehead     29.04  27.18  29.04  29.04  81.94  31.94  31.94  81.94   31.94   81.94   81.94   31.94   31.94   31.94   31.94    1.94                    --
-Viphya Sam M4;11     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   9.55  13.37  19.10  19.10   :9.10   19.10   19.10   19.10   19.10   19.10   19.10   19.10                  6.88
-TOTAL              123.60 132.80  138.05 139.95  164.47  161.43  171.47 174.87  176.80  179.83  183.15  186.87  IO.66  194.34  198.33  202.86              2.S1
EXPORT                    1.09   0.70   0.88   0.91   0.93   0.96   0.98   1.01    1.03    1.06    1.09    1.12    1.16    1.18    1.21    1.25                  2.72
INTERCONETED SYSTEM:
TOTAL SALES 398.13 426.51 466.10 500.62 837.78 573.13 621.81 659.37  699.21  764.06  839.93  925.03 1012.68 1109.49  1217.30 1337.57                8.63
Ausilary Consumption   2.44   2.50   2.89   3.08   3.81   8.5S3   .83   4.01    4.20    4.54    4.94    S.U4    5.95    6.52    7.1S    7.86                 8.17
Losses (%)   15.8   16.1   1S.rA  15.0   15.0   15.0   14.0   13.0    12.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0                -0.03
Lossae  75.02  82.53  83.29  88.89  95.49  101.76  110.41 107.99  105.11  104.81  104.42  115.00  125.90  137.93  161.34  166.29                5.17
CENEP.ATED 478.59 511.55 560.90 592.60 636.58 678.42 736.05 771.37  808.83  873.41  949.29 1045.47 1114.53 1253.95 1375.79  1S11.72                817
Load Factor (S)   66.4   61.6   65.9   63.9   63.7   63.3   63.0   63.1    63.1    63.0    62.9    62.6    62.3    62.1    61.9    61.7                -0.01
Max Demand MW   81.8   94.8   97.2  105.9  114.1  122.3  133.4  134.6   146.3   158.1   172.8   190.6   209.6   230.4   253.6   279.5                 8.49
Revised Rd (1)   81.8   94.8   97.2  107.7  116.0  124.3  138.6  141.9   148.7   160.8   175.2   194.5   218.9   293.0   255.0   279.8                 8.32
NOTE:  Figure. for 1985. 1986 and 1987 represent actual consumption.
u
0
Iao ,
WN 



MALAWI
BQY  I PROJECT
ELCTRLC1rY SUPPLY CO4555N OF MALAWI
Interconnected Systeo Peak Demnd. Actual (85-87) and Proj ected
Low Scenario
\                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cro tb S
1986   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    19"            2000         1989-2000
CG4ERATSE EBOCY (C0h)    475.59 511.55 560.90 579.40 606.91  927.53 654.00  666.48  680.76  714.70  763.44  806.43  864.65  927.30  995.65  1070.43
CO2CSDE  DEMAND M). morning peak
Lg DENSITY                 7.75   8.S8    9.30   9.72   9.91  10.14  10.42  10.73   11.09   11.82   12.64   18.57   14.56   15.62   16.76   17.99                   5.57
CENERAL-Southern+Lilongew   9.35  10.42  11.26  11.83  12.11  12.46  12.87  13.35   13.91   14.96   16.17   1?.63   19.02   2!0.62   22.39   24.24                  6.51
-Other Rogions       1.87   2.18   2.47   2.71   2.90   3.11   3.35   3.61    3.91    4.37    4.91    5.52    6.21    6.97    7.83    8.79                   10.61
HIGH DEhSm                 1.90   2.02   1.98   2.05   2.14   2.23   2.34   2.46    2.59    2.7          2.90    3.07    3.27    3.47    3.68    3.91               5.63
SMALL PWER-Southern       18.43  18.43  21.36  22.41  22.68  23.06  23.54  24.14   24.85   26.72   28.85   31s27   33.89   86.72   39.79   42.11                    S.79
-Other Regions  10.91   11.12  13.23  14.25  14.82  15.47  16.21  17.06   18.03   19.89   22.04   24.S1   27.25   30.29   33.68   37.41                  8.70
LARGE POWER:
-SUCOMA (on peak)     4.92   5.09   5.26   5.44   5.63   5.82   5.99   6.17    6.36    6.56    6.74    6.95    7.15    7.37    7.59    7.82                    3.03
-1lantyr* Water Board  6.30   6.30   6.67   6.67   6.67   6.87   7.37   7.60    7.82    8.00    8.49    8.73    9.22    9.42    9.66    9.91                   3.66
-Portland Cement      1.63   1.92    1.60   2.59   2.61   2.80   2.80   2.80    2.80    2.80    2.80    2.80    2.80    2.80    2.80    2.80                   0.64
-David Whitehead      4.80   4.80   4.80   4.80   5.28   5.28   5.28   5.28    5.28    S.28    S.28    5.28    6.28    5.28    5.28    5.28                      --
-Viphys Sow Mil.      0.00   0.00   *.00   0.00   1.73   2.42   3.4"   3.46    3.46    3.46    3.46    3.46    8.45    8.46    3.46    3.46                    6.80
EXPORT                     0.27   0.17   0.21   0.22   0.23   0.23   0.24   0.24    0.25    0.26    0.27    0.27    0.28    0.29    0.29    0.30                    2.44
INTECONNECrE SYSTEM:      68.03  71.04   78.44  82.70  86.71  89.90  93.87  96.91   100.33  106.95  114.54  122.96  132.38  1442.32  IS3.18  166.02                 6.02
Auxilary Consumption   0.43   0.49   0.51   0.S4   0.56   0.88   0.61   0.62    0.63    0.66    0.70    0.75    0.81    0.87    0.94    1.01                   5.51
Losses (S)   20.5   20.7   18.8   19.4   19.4   19.5   18.2   16.9    15.6    14.4    14.4    14.4    14.5    14.5    14.5    14.6                  -0.03
Loases  16.81  19.61  18.25  20.04  21.03  21.88  22.85  21.68   20.65   19.96    19.35   20.82   22.48   24.21   26.10   28.16                   2.69
CESERATED  81.80  84.80  97.20 103.28 108.30 112.33 117.32  119.21  121.63  127.57  134.59   114.53  155.66   167.40  180.21  194.19                 S.45
LWad Factor (S)   66.4   61.6   65.8   64.0   64.0   63.8   63.6   63.8    63.9    64.0    63.9    63.7    63.4    63.2    63.1    62.9                     -
NOTE: Cenerate maximum demand figures for 1985. 1986 and 1987 above represent actual demnd.
00
0D
I,"



MALAWI
ENERY I PROJECr
EB  TRICrTY SUPPLV COMI,SSION OF MALAWI
Interconnected System Peak Dnmnd, Actual (85-87) and PtoJacted
High Scenario
Crowth X
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992    1993    1994    199        1996    1997    1998    1999    2000         1989-2000
CENEBATED EERCY (CWh)    475.59 511.55 560.90 592.60 841.38 686.18 740.33 788.42  832.69  912.52 1149.16  1346.62 1516.34 1683.79 1876.97 2100.10
CINCIDE84T DEWA (MW). mornilng peak
LOW DBSITY                7.75   8.58   9.30   9.98  10.57  11.25  12.02  12.90   13.91   15.48   17.29   19.44   21.88   24.58   27.64   31.07                10.30
GENERAL-Southern*Lilongwe   9.35  10.42  11.26  12.22  13.15  14.23  15.47  16.92   18.60   21.12   24.11   27.73   31.90   88.7?   42.21   48.54              12.60
-Other Region-      1.87   2.18   2.47   2.80   3.15   3.56   4.02   4.58    5.23    6.17    7.32    8.78   10.41   12.41   14.78   17.60                16.9J
HIGH DENSM                 1.80   2.02   1.98   2.10   2.26   2.44   2.64   2.87    8.14    8.44    3.78    4.18    4.62    3.11    5.65    6.24                9.67
SKALL PIWER-South*in      18.43  18.43  21.36  23.17  24.66  26.38  28.38  80.70   33.39   37.88   43.20   49.65   57.O5   35.54   75.29   84.48               12.08
-Other 1(agion-  10.81  11.12  13.23  14.74  16.11  17.70  19.54  21.70   24.22   28.20   33.00   88.91   45.87   54.06   68.70   75.05              15.01
LARGE POWE:
-SUCoMA (on peak)    4.92   8.09   5.26   5.44   5.63   5.82   5.99   6.17    6.36    6.55    8.74    6.95    7.15    7.87    7.59    7.82                 3.03
-Blantyre Water Board  6.30   6.30   3.67   6.67   6.67   6.87   7.37   7.60    7.82    8.09    8.49    8.73    9.22    9.42    9.66    9.91               3."
-Portland Cement     1.63   1.92   1.90   2.59   2.61   2.80   2.80   2.80    2.80    2.80    2.80    2.80    2.60    2.80    2.80    2.80                 0.64
-David Whitehead     4.80   4.80   4.80   4.80   5.28   5.28   5.28   5.28    5.28    5.28    5.28    5.28    5.28    5.28    5.28    5.23                   --
-':iphy Saw Mill     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    3.46    3.46    8.46    8.46    8.48    8.48                  now
-Fertilizer Plant    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00                  now
EtPORT                    0.27   0.17   0.21   0.22   0.23   0.23   0.24   0.24    0.25    0.26    0.27    0.27    0.28    0.29    0.29    0.30                 2.44
INTERCONNECTD SYSTEM:    68.03  71.04  78.44  84.74  92.03  98.96  107.23 115.24  124.46  138.73  167.74  188.13  211.91  239.02  270.3S  306.65               11.56
Aux;lary Consumption   0.34   0.49   0.51   0.55   0.60   0.64   0.70   0.74    0.79    0.86    1.02    1.14    1.28    1.45    1.64    1.87               10.89
Losas (S)   20.5   20.7   18.8   19.4   19.5   19.6   18.3   17.1    15.8    14.0    13.6    13.6    13.8    13.9    14.0   ld 1                 -0.30
Losses  16.81  19.61  18.25  20.56   22.4  24.17  26.28  26.01   25.75   26.1:   27.53   29.91   33.70   38.44   43.94   50.31                 7.63
CaJERATED  81.80  94.80  97.20 105.85 11S.03 123.78 134.21  141.98  150.99  165.78  196.29  219.18  246.89  278.91  315.94  358.73               10.89
Load Factor (t)   66.4   61.6   65.8   63.9   63.7   63.3   63.0   63.0    63.0    62.8    66.8    70.1    70.1    68.9    67.8    66.8                0.43
NOTE: Cenerate maximum demand figures for 1985, 1986 and 1987 above represent actual demand.
00
olr



- 64 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page I ot 2
ENERGY I PROJECT
ELECTRICITY 5UPPLY W IMI15biUN OF NALAVI
INTERCONNLxELDU YIUI LRPAUITY AND UENERAT IN BALANCES
UITH LAINlUN  MVIU0
1989     1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1997     2000
Maximum Demand  (MW)
Base     '                      114.1    122.3    133.4    134.6    146.3    158.1    209.6    279.5
Low                             108.3    112.3    117.3    119.2    121.5    127.6    155.6    194.2
High                            115.0    123.8    134.2    142.0    151.0    165.8    246.9    358.7
GWh Generation
Base                            636.6    678.4    736.0    771.4    808.5    873.6   1114.5   1511.7
Low                            606.9    627.5    654.0    666.5    680.8    714.7    864.7   1070.4
High                           641.4    686.2    740.3    783.4    832.7    912.5   1516.3   2100.1
Dependable Minimum Output
MW  1/                            140       140      140       140       140       140       140       140
GWh Z/                            860      860       860       860       860       860       860      860
Balance
Base, MW                        25.9       17.7      6.6       5.4      -6.3    -18.1    -69.6   -139.6
Base, GWhI                     223.4    181.6    124.0        88.6      51.5      13.4   -254.5   -651.7
Low, MW                         31.7      27.7      22.7      20.8      18.5      12.4    -15.6    -54.2
Low, GWh                       253.1    232.5    206.0    193.5    179.5    145.3           -4.7   -210.4
High, MW                        25.0      16.2       5.8      -2.0    -11.0    -15.8   -106.9   -218.7
High, GWh                      218.6    173.8    119.7        73.6      27.3    -52.5   -656.3  -1240.1
Planting Program
NkUIa s, zuMW                                                   X
Tedzani III  2x25MW                                                                 X
Kapichira, Lx25MW                                                                            X
Kapichira, 3x25MW                                                                                 X
(1999)
I/  AlIowing tor eb MW reserve.
7/ Based on average minimum flow of 136m3/sec and 92% availability, Nkula A (3 x 8 MW) and B (4 x 20 MW)
generate 536 GWh; Tedzani I and II (4 x 10 MW) 322 GWh and 388 GWh with Tedzani III (2 x 25 MW). These are
however, pessimistic figures reflecting the extreme case of I in 80 probability for availability of water.



- 65 -                                 ANNEX 3.3
Page z Ot 2
ENERGY I PROJECT
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY (UWNISION OF MALAWI
INTERCONNEM IU SThTEN IAPAUIIT ANU ItiNERAllN IALANCES
WI IH NEW LCAURIIT
1989    190      1991      1992     1993      1994     1997      2000
Maximum Demand, MW                    -_-_
uase                          114.1    122.3    133.4    134.6    146.3    158.1    209.6    279.5
Low                           108.3    112.3    117.3    119.2    121.5    127.6    155.6    194.2
High                          115.0    123.8    134.2    142.0    151.0    165.8    246.9    358.7
Generation Requirement, GWh
base                          636.6    678.4    736.0    771.4    808.5    873.6   1114.5   1511.7
Low                           606.9    627.5    654.0    666.5    680.8    714.7    864.7   1070.4
High                          641.4    686.2    740.3    783.4    832.7    912.5   1516.3   2100.1
Dependable Minimum Output
Mw  I/                          140       140      140       160      160       210      260       360
GWh Z/                          860       860      860       860      860       860      926      1630
Balance
base, MW                       25.9      17.7      6.6      25.4     13.7      51.9     50.4      80.5
Base, GWh                     223.4    181.6    124.0       88.6     51.5      13.4   -219.5    118.3
Low, MW                        31.7      27.7     22.7      40.8     38.5     82.4    -84.4    165.8
Low, GWh                      253.1    232.5    206.0    193.5    179.5    145.3        61.3    559.6
High, MW                       25.0      16.2      5.8      18.0      9.0      44.2     13.1       1.3
High, GWh                     218.6    173.8    119.7       73.6     27.3    -52.5   -590.3   -470.1
1/ Al lowing tor ze Mw reserve
27 Based on average mimimum flow of 136 m3/sec and 92% availability, Nkula A (3 x 8 MW) and B (4 x 20 MW)
generate 536 GWh; Tedzani I and II (4 x 10 MW) 322 GWh and 388 GWh with Tedzani III (2 x 25 MW).  These are
however, pessimistic figures reflecting the extreme case of 1 in 80 probability for availability of water
and do not assuwe measures that could6 be implemented in the event of consecutive dry years (Annex 5.1
hydrology).  The possible GWh output of the existing gas turbine is also not included.  A figure of 700 GWh
is assumed for Kapichira.



- 66-                                  ANNEX 3.4
Page 1 of 3
HALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
EXISTING FACILITIES, 1987
ESCOM'S GENERATING PLANT  1/
Comm. No. of Rating of Total Installed
Location        Date   Date    Units, kW   Capacity, kW        Type
Interconnected
System (ICS)
Zomba                1953    1            300           600        Hydro
1954    1            300
Nkula Falls A        1966    2          8,000        24,000        Hydro
1967    1          8,000
Tedzani Falls        1973    2         10,000
1976    1         10,000        40,000       Hydro
1977    1         10,000
Nkula Falls B        1980    2         20,000
1981    1         20,000       80,000        Hydro
1,986    1        20,000
Blantyre             1975    1         15,000        15,000    Gas turbine
Lilongwe             1972    1          3,000
1974    1          1,100         5,400       Diesel
1979    1          1,300
Kasungu              1972    2             85
1974    1             85           360       Diesel
1979    1            105
Mzuzu                1974    1            250
1975    1            150         2,200       Diesel
1980    1          1,100
1983    1            700
Total ICS                                           167,560
Isolated System (ISS)
Karonga              1980    2            120
1983    1            120           560       Diesel
1984    1            200
Total ICS & ISS, of which                           168,120
Hydro (ICS)                                    144,600
Diesel                                           8,520
Gas turbine                                     15,000
1/ Source: ESCOM



- 67 -                                ANNEX 3.4
Page 2 of 3
MALAVI
ENERGY I PROJECT
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY COMMISSION OF MALAWI
EXISTING FACILITIES 1987
ESCOM'S TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS
Transmission Systems
132 kV lines, km                                  227.9
66 kV lines, km                                  1063.0
Substations   132/66 kV, MVA                       25
66/33 kV, MVA                       61
66/11 kV, MVA                      115
Distribution Systems
33 kV lines, km                                  1351.5
33 kV cables, km                                   49.3
11 kV lines, km                                  1734.2
11 kV cables, km                                   50.2
Transformers, MVA                                 305
Interruptions (1986)                        '32 kV       66 kV        33 and 11 kV
Planned, number                         5          55
duration (hours)                 40.3      456.2
Unplanned, number                      11         119
duration (hours)                  0.7       46.6
Total, number                          16         174             2196
duration (hours)                 41        502.8           n.a.
Plant Availability (2)                             1986         1987
Tedzani                                     95.6          92
Nkula A                                     81.3          95
Nkula B                                     91.9          93
Losses (Z of Net Generation) and Maximum Demand (MW)
Year                                                 I IN
1978                                   8
1979                                   9
1980                                   9.8         66.2
1981                                  12.4         66.6
1982                                  12.8         70.6
1983                                  11.7         73.4
1984                                  13.2         84.6
1985                                  15.8         81.8
1986                                  16.1         94.8
1987                                  16.5         97.2



- 68 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 3 of 3
MALAWI
ENERGY I-PROJECT
EXISTING FACILITIES  1987
SUMMARY LIST OF PRIVATE GENERATING PLANT
Region and                       Installed Capacity, KW
Type of Licensee              Steam    Diesel   Hydro    Total
Southern Region
Tea Industry                1808      3143      1032     5983
Sugar Industrv              7500                  --     7500
Other Industries              ---      785       ---      785
Services 1/                  ---      1219        65     1284
Railways                               371       ---      371
Subtotal                 9308      5518     1097    15923
Central Region
Sugar Industry              7000       270       ---     7270
Services                     ---      1688               1688
Railways                                82       ---       82
Subtotal                 7000      2040      ---      9040
Northern
Tea and Agriculture          608       437       ---     1045
Services                               267       145      412
Subtotal                  608       704      145      1457
Total                   16916      8262     1242    26420
1/ Services include Government offices, and buildings, missions,
embassies and communications.



- 69 -                                ANNAE 5.1
Page 1 of 8
HALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Description of Tedzani III Power Plavt
Location of the Power Plant
1.     The Tedzani III power plant site is on the Shire River and is shown
on IBRD Map No. 20917. A summary description of the power scheme is given
in Chapter IV. A more detailed outline of the project features is given
hereunder.
Background
2.     Hydro power is the main source of power supply in Malawi.  A total
of 144MW of hydro capacity has been developed in a cascade group of power
plants at Nkula and Tedzani in four phases since 1966. An additional 20MW
is planned for installation at the existing Nkula B power station in 1992.
Tedzani III will be the fifth phase of development and will increase the
installed capacity by 50MW to 214MW (almost 43Z of the potential of the
Shire River) by 1994, the target date for commissioning the Tedzani scheme.
Hydrology
3.     The lake free water level has varied considerably in the past,
falling to almost zero between 1890 and 1910 and increasing steadily since
then. During the last few decades Lake Malawi's outflow has averaged about
650 m 3/sec. Kamuzu (Liwonde) barrage, constructed at the outlet of the
Lake in 1965, regulates the flow to a minimum 175 m3/sec. (Plant output
estimates are made on the conservative average minimum flow of 136 m3/sec
established by TAHS). This corresponds to a calculated annual flow of
about 5500 million m3. None of the existing power plants have, however,
annual storage facility, and depend on the upstream lake Malawi for their
annual and longer term regulation. Studies carried our recently (Foot Note
No. 7) indicate that in the event of a return to the very dry conditions
experienced in the early years of this century there would be risk of major
energy deficits. Based on a computer simulation model replicating
historical records of the behavior of Lake Malawi, risks could occur at any
time from the mid-1990s and last for over 5 years with energy deficits of
up to 90Z of total demand. (The behavior of the Lake is gauged by a
measuring bar at Mangochi and monitoring the depth of the Upper Shire
channel, the outlet to the Shire River.) Measures to safeguard against a
recurrence of very low flows have been evaluated. These included
construction of a major thermal plant (to substitute the major part if not
the total hydro capacity), interconnection with a neighboring country, and
dredging of the Upper Shire channel. The thermal option (for supplies
other than short period peaks) is easily disposed of because of the very
high cost of fuel (20-30 US cents for gas turbines). In addition, given



- 70 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 2 of 8
the experience of Malawi on reliance on imported energy, it seems unlikely
that the Malawi Government would be prepared to take a decision to
implement a major thermal plant requiring imported coal or fuel oil or
interconnection on the very low probability that the level of the Lake
would fall below a predetermined trigger level. The likely option is the
low cost dredging, which requires a short time to implement.
Tedzani III Power Scheme
4.     The Tedzani III power scheme uses the existing daily regulating dam
for Tedzani II. Geological investigation for the proposed scheme was
limited to surface investigation and correlation of information on Tedzani
II. Generally speaking the geological conditions are considered good.
However, before start up of construction confirmatory drilling has been
recommended by the consultant in the alignment of the headrace tunnel, due
to possible presence of a fault zone on the basis of experience on Tedzani
II. There will also be confirmatory drilling in the proposed power house
site which was used as a backfill for the Tedzani II project. The power
scheme comprises an intake with trash racks, a 1052m long headrace tunnel
about half of which will be steel lined and the remainder reinforced
concrete lined, a bifurcation to each of the two turbines, butterfly
valves, a reinforced concrete box structured power house and a short
tailrace leading directly to the nearby Shire river. Main data for the
proposed power scheme is as follows:
Normal operating pool elevation           317.75 m
Minimum operating pool elevation          315.00 m
Live storage volume of existing dam       2 million m3
Existing spillway design flood            5660 m3/s
Power intake area                         310 m2
Maximum intake capacity                   160m3/s
Headrace tunnel cross-section             7m diameter
Diameter of surge chamber                 25m
Diameter of surge shaft                   4m
Powerstation dimension                    45mx22m
Minimum tailwater elevation               271m
Maximum tailwater elevation               276m
Expected discharge at rated output
and full gate opening                   77m3/s
5.     Two Francis turbines with rated outputs of 25.7MW at a rated net
head of 38m would each be coupled to a 31MVA, 0.9 pf generator having a
rated voltage of 11kV. The llkV cables from the generators will be passed
through a shaft from the machine hall to a 132kV outdoor substation
accommodating two 31.5 MVA 11/132kV step up transformers. The substation
will comprise two generator bays, two feeder bays, one bus coupler bay and
one 132/66kV 31 MVA interbus transformer bay. The existing 66kV Tedzani
substation will be extended with one additional 66kV bay to connect with
the 66kV side of the Tedzani III interbus auto-transformer circuit. An 8km
132kV line will be constructed to link Tedzani III directly to Nkula, to
facilitate the direct transfer of Tedzani III generation to the demand
centers. Enhancement of the PLC and SCADA systems of ESCOM to respond to



- 71 -                               ANNEX 5.1
Page 3 of 8
planned additions of the generation and transmission facilities will also
be included.
6.     A 132/66kV substation comprising two 132kV feeder bays, one coupler
bay, one auto-transformer bay with one 25MVA 132/66kV auto-transformer will
be built at Blantyre West. A 20MVA 66/33kV transformer will be installed
and 6km 66kV link to Chichiri substation will be constructed.
7.     The Tedzani scheme includes consultancy services for the detail
engineering design preparation of the bid documents and supervision during
construction of the power plant. An estimated 250 man months would be
required.
8.     Up to about ten contract packages are envisaged for the construction
of the project. The tender documents for the main packages would provide
for on-the-job training of the engineering and technical personnel of
ESCOM, with the objective of strengthening the in-house capability of ESCOM
to plan, design and manage projects, and maintain and operate Tedzani III
scheme. To achieve these objectives, the contract for engineering services
would provide for the training of at least two civil engineers, three
electrical engineers, and three mechanical engineers, during project
design, preparation of specification, bid evaluation and secondment during
supervision of construction and erection of electromechanical machinery and
equipment. The electrical and mechanical engineers would also visit
manufacturers' works during the final stages of assembly and trial factory
testing of the electromechanical equipment. The supply and equipment
contract documents would provide for (i) the training of ten electricians
and ten mechanics at the manufacturers' works during the final phases of
assembly of machinery and plant, and (ii) their secondment to the suppliers
during erection and testing at site. Provision of 300 man-months is made
for on-the-job training of ESCOM's engineering staff and technical
personnel; the cost thereof is included in the consultancy services for the
engineering design and supervision of Tedzani III.
B. Generation Rehabilitation
9.     ESCOM's records prove that Tedzani units are showing deterioration
in frequency and duration of outages mainly due to the direct water cooling
system. Instability of Tedzani units is also being experienced due to the
turbine governors and mechanical voltage regulators. Replacement of the
direct water cooling system by a closed circuit system with plate type heat
exchangers (compact and easy to clean) would be carried out as on all units
recommended by Kennedy and Donkin. Turbine governors parts of Tedzani I
would be changed to improve stability and the voltage regulators would be
replaced by electronic automatic voltage regulators. Spare parts would be
procured for the existing hydro and gas turbine and diesel power plants.
C. Institution Strengthening ESCOM
10.    ESCOMIs Computer Enhancement.  Presently ESCOM has one mainframe
computer based in Blantyre, and two microsystems based one each in Blantyre
and Lilongwe. While the present system works well for Blantyre and
Lilongwe, it does not work so well for 15 other main supply centres where



- 72 -                              ANNEX 5.1
Page 4 of 8
meter reading input is gathered manually, transcribed and sent to Blantyre
for processing. This leads to delays, inaccuracies and invites fraudulent
activities. ESCOM has requested and the mission has agreed to provide in
the proposed project for computerized facilities at 15 operating centres,
to cater for cash receipting, inventory control and meter readings with
capability to transmit this information by floppy disc or dial up
facilities to the processing centres of Blantyre and Lilongwe.
11.    Asset Revaluation Studies.  Provision of 8 man months of consultancy
services to inspect the physical facilities of ESCOM' installations and
equipment and to determine their reinstatement values.
12.    Tariff Studies.  Preliminary evaluation indicates that ESCOM's
tariffs do not reflect marginal cost of electricity supply. Detailed
tariff study, based on marginal cost of supply, would be undertaken by a
consultant to determine the tariff structure and the rates at different
voltages of supply. Assessment would also be made of peak and off peak
tariff rates as well as for surnlus energy and seasonal rates for selected
category of consumers. The viability of introducing time of day metering
would also be investigated. ESCOM's connection policies would be studied
and recommendation made for alternative policies. An estimated 8 man
months of consultancy services would be required.
13.    Transmission and Distribution Studies.  Consulting services,
estimated at 8 man months, would be sought to carry out transmission and
distribution system studies having the following objectives: (a) coping
with future demands for power in ESCOM's franchise area; (b) improving the
reliability of electricity supply; (c) reducing losses in the transmission
and distribution systems; and (d) organizing and training ESCOM's personnel
in planning and designing techniques of transmission and distrioution
systems. The consultant would assist ESCOM in the selection and
procurement, installation and commissioning of the computer hardware and
software needed for transmission system studies and distribution system
design. The transmission system studies would include load flow, stability
and short circuit evaluation, protection co-ordination and would establish
criteria for distribution system design and assess medium term investment
requirements for ESCOM's transmission and main distribution system
expansion. The main thrust, of these studies would be training ESCOM's
personnel in the use of coxliputers for transmission and distribution system
studies. Studies on reduction of losses through reinforcement of the
existing distribution and subtransmission network would be undertaken by
ESCOM with the possible assistance of ESMAP.
D. Charcoal Component
14.    Provision of consultancy services for the pilot charcoal project for
a period not exceeding 24 months to (i) advise and monitor the production
and marketing of the softwood charcoal from forest thinnings; (ii) advise
on its commercialization; (iii) train consultant's counterpart staff and
operators of the pilot project; (iv) encourage the utilization of charcoal
by potential industrial and agro-industrial consumer through providing
advice in conducting combustion trials and retrofitting where required; (v)
prepare specifications for procurement of vehicles and equipment; and (vi)



- 73 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 5 of 8
provide advice to Government on supply of softwood charcoal and waste wood
to Mozambican refugees.
15.    Procurement of one pick up, one truck and one trailer combination
for charcoal transport, one tractor and trailer combination for wood
collection, one log handling equipment, thermostats and electronic
monitors, 2 minicomputers and office furniture, and temporary dwellings
near charcoal kilns.
E. Wood Energy Component
16.    The detailed features of the wood energy component of the Project
are presented below. The cost tables for each sub-component are presented
in Annex 4.2. For many of the components initial expenditures have already
been made under the Second Wood Energy Project. The cost tables therefore
reflect only expected future expenditures from 1989/90 -93/94. 1/
(i)      Indigenous Forest Management and Revenue Collection.  A total
of 54 ACUs would be established (of which 44 have already been
established during 1987/88). Each ACU would be manned by 5
forest management teams, each team consisting of one Forest
Guard (FG) and one or two Patrolmen (PM) and responsible for an
average area of 3,000 hectares. Each ACU would be supervised
by a Technical Assistant (TA) who would report to the District
Forest Officer. Total incremental staff would comprise 35 TAs,
117 FGs and 405 PM. The District Forest Officer would be
equipped with a four-wheel drive pick-up, the TAs with
motorcycles and the FGs with push bicycles. In addition, the
Project would provide for low cost rural housing for all
incremental field staff, as well as the necessary storage
facilities, uniforms, equipment and tools. 10 FPCs would be
set up on major transport roads. Each FPC, manned by 4 to 6
forestry personnel on a 24 hour-a-day schedule, would be
supervised by the TA responsible for the area. The Project
would provide for incremental staff comprising 30 FGs and 60 PM
as well as for housing, tents at road barriers, equipment and
uniforms and a two month consultancy for an early evaluation of
the system.
(ii)     Forest Extension.  Project would provide for operation of nine
pilot extension units each consisting an average of one
Professional Officer (PO), one Technical Officer (TO) and six
Technical Assistants (TA) who are also carrying out Indigenous
Forest Management Activities. Farmers would be trained for 3
days in agricultural residential training centers, followed by
one day training per month for eight months. The Project would
provide for incremental staff, vehicles motorcycles, extension
I/ For example, the bulk of vehicles have already been procured during
1987/88 and hence provision is generally made just to replace these
vehicles in the last year of the Energy I Credit.



ANNEX 5.1
- 74 ~                         Page 6 of 8
material and audiovisual equipment and for a small unit at the
FD headquarters to develop training and publicity materials.
(iii)    Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.  The Project would meet the
cost of 11 incremental staff for the unit (one PO, one TO, 8
TAs, and one STA for data irput) and would provide for office
equipment, vehicles, motorcycles and staff housing. In
addition, a lump sum of MK100,000 would be provided for
contracting local firms or consultants for surveys.
(iv)     Planning Unit.  The Project would provide for the employment of
two POs, one Senior Technical Officer (STO), one TO, three
Senior Technical Assistants (STAs) and three TAs. It will also
provide for vehicles, photo interpretation and inventory
equipment, six person months of consultancy services to assist
in building up the forest inventory capacity and three-month
fellowship overseas for photo-interpretation and remote
sensing.
(v)      Strengthening of Forestry Department.  The Project would
provide for the two additional P5 posts created (the headed of
the Forestry Extension Division and the Support Services
Division) and the new P7 post for the Principal of the Malawi
College of Forestry, as well as for one sterographer, 2 SCOs, 7
COs, lSEO and 1 typist. It would also provide for the salary
of the incumbent expatriate Financial Controller for the first
year of the Project until his counterpart is ready to take
over. Provision is also made for vehicles, workshops and study
tours.
(vi)     Research.  The Project would provide for the incremental
employment of one PO, two TOs and six TAs, vehicles, equipment,
housing and expansion of facilities including improved seed
storage facilities. During appraisal discussions were held
with ODA who have expressed interest in financing a package of
technical assistance to FRIM. This would include a
silviculturalist for three years and 48 man-months of short
term specialists for research on seed supply, inventory-
mensuration, indigenous forest management, fertilizers,
entomology and agroforestry. In the event that the ODA is not
able to finance the technical assistance, additional resources
would be necessary under the IDA project to cover these costs.
(vii)    Training.  The Energy I Project would provide for two new
hostel blocks, rehabilitation of existing hostel blocks,
expansion of the kitchen and dining room facilities, and
construction of an additional lecture room, tool workshop,
laboratory, storeroom and water tank. It would also provide
for two additional teachers, and other operating costs of the
incremental training courses necessary to implement the
Project.



_ 75 -                                ANNEX 5.1
Page 7 of 8
(viii)   Retail Nurseries.  The Energy I Project will fund the operating
costs of the 60 new temporary nurseries established under WEII,
as well as the upgrading of the 10 temporary nurseries
established under the First Wood Energy Project. Provision is
also made for upgrading 20 of the 60 new temporary nurseries,
which entails more permanent housing for nurserymen, improved
storage facilities and water tanks. In addition, the Project
provides for distribution of seedling production packages to
"contract farmers" and to establish demonstration woodlots,
serving also as applied research trials, in some retail
nurseries and on surplus land of "contact faimers."
(ix)     Tree Planting Incentive Payment.  Under the incentive scheme,
farmers will receive five tambala for each tree surviving two
years which will help make tree planting financially attractive
relative to agricultural crop production on marginal land. The
scheme was introduced on a pilot basis during 1987188 in the 9
districts. Under the Energy I Project the scheme would be
extended to cove' all districts. Provision is made for
payments for a total of 43 million seedlings over the five
yeare yroject period.
(x)      Government Plantation.  Direct wood production by the
Government under the Project is limited to the establishment of
plantations on the steep and environmentally fragile slopes of
Mount Mulanje. Under the Second Wood Energy Project, part of
the infrastructure has already been put in place and 1300
hectares will have already been established by the time the
Energy I Pro,-ct begins. Provision is made under the new
Project to establish 550 hectares during each of the five years
of the project, including purchase of machinery and vehicles,
materials, incremental staff, labor, construction of staff
housing, office buildings, roads and nurseries.
(xi)     Fuel Efficiency Initiatives.  (a) Fuel-Efficient Household
Stoves. Under the Energy I Project the objective is to move
from pilot production to full-scale commercial operations
without Government subsidies or assistance. Provision is made
undez the Project for hiring one TO, one TA and two skilled
artisans, and for staff housing, vehicles, materials and
equipment. In addition, MK75,000 will be made available
annually through the Small Enterprise Development Organization
of Malawi (EDOM) for finance of local entrepreneurs in stove
production and marketing; (b) Tobacco Curing Energy
Conservation Program. The main focus of the program is now
directed to disseminating the research findings and training
estate managers, furnace bailders and furnace stokers/operators
in the new techniques. The Malawi Tobacco Research Authority
will gradually take over the costs of extension and training.
However, the Energy I Project will provide MK75,000 annually
for the first two years to finance the costs of extension and
dissemination (salaries of TAs, materials, vehicle running
costs and so on).



- 76 -                              ANNEX 5.1
Page 8 of 8
F. Energy Pricing Study.
18.    Consultants would be employed to (i) review existing pricing policy
for liquid fuels, woodfuel and coal; (ii) examine pricing policy options
taking into account different macroeconomic scenarios; (iii) examine
interfuel substitution possibilities; (iv) recommend overall energy pricing
policy options, objectives and strategies; and (v) examine the
appropriateness and the strategy for implementing a particular pricing
policy. An estimated 25 man months of consulting services would be
required. The TOR for the energy pricing would be discussed with the
Government during negotiations.



ANNEX 5.2
- 77 -                           Page I Of 4
MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
ENERGY SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM 1989-1994
L      F      T              L       F      T
(million K)                  (million US$)
POWER SUB-SECTOR
Generation
Nkula B                       3.4   43.9   47.3            1.0   12.7   13.7
Nkula rehabilitation          --     4.8    4.8             --    1.5    1.5
Kapichira a/                 40.7  104.3  145.0           10.1   26.0   36.1
Subtotal Generation      44.1  153.0  197.1            11.1   40.2   51.3
Transmission
132kV line                  18.4   47.7   66.1             5.2   13.7   18.9
132kV Substation             3.1   21.9   25.0             0.9    6.3    7.2
66kV                         2.3    9.6   11.9             0.6    2.5    3.1
Subtotal Transmission   23.8   79.2  103.0              6.7   22.5   29.2
Distribution b/                 4.5   22.6   27.1             1.3    6.5    7.8
Rural Electrification           5.3   25.9   31.2             1.4    6.9    8.3
ESCOM General c/               64.6     --   64.6           17.5      --   17.5
Power Component
of Energy I Project          47.0  188.6  235.6            12.3   49.5   61.8
Total PSIP           189.3  469.3  658.6            50.3  125.6  175.9
a/  Includes investment on Kapichira up to 1994.  Kapichira would require
an additional investment of K121.4 million (US$21.8 million equivilant)
in local and K521.3 million (US$92.2 million) in foreign currency up to
commissioning of 2 units in 1997 and 3 units in 1999.
b/  Includes mainly distribution reinforcement.
c/  Includes mainly distribution expanision.



ANNEX 5.2
- 78 -                            Page 2 ofT 4
L      F       T              L      F       T
(million K)                   (million US$)
ENERGY SUB-SECTOR
Energy Planning &
Training
Energy Advisor                 --    1.0    1.0              --    0.3    0.3
Training                       --    4.2    4.2              --    1.2    1.2
Subtotal                    --    5.2    5.2              --    1.5    1.5
National Fuel Reserve d/         --   29.9   29.9              --   13.4   13.4
Coal Production                  --    6.2    6.2              --    2.5    2.5
Fuelwood Plantation e/           --   60.2   60.2              --   14.0   14.0
Subtotal Energy
Subsector                        --  101.5  101.5              --   31.4   31.4
Energy Component of
Energy I Project               21.3   34.6   55.9             6.1   10.4   16.5
Total Energy
Subsector             21.3  136.1  157.4             6.1   41.6   47.9
Total Energy
Investment           210.6  605.4  816.0            56.4  167.4  223.8
8 _ _. _.
d/   EEC intends to provie- ECU 5 to 6 million for procurement of storage
facilities (Source EEC). Government the difference fir procurement of
petroleum.
e/   EEC supported project with ECU 10 million (Source EEC).  NORAD also provides
support.



ANNEX 5.2
- 79 -                                      Page 3 of 4
MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
POWER COMPONENT
ENERGY I PROJECT         1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994  Total   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994  Total
(in ron KiWi)  -                                  mI ull&DollaIF
A, Tedzanl Ill
S-utotaTl ivil
L~~                 0.00   0.00   4.48   15.76  10.31   1.95  32.50    0.00   0.00   1.22   4.16   2.63   0.48   8.49
F                   0.00   0.00   7.76   26.98  19.53   4.10  58.36    0.00   0.00   2.09   7.02   5.07   1.03  15.22
T                   0.00   0.00  12.24   42.72  29.84   6.05  90.86    0.00   0.00   3.31  11.17   7.70   1.52  23.71
Subtotal ElectromechanICal
U0.00   0.00   0.00    0.62   2.93   0.50   4.05                     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.16   0.75   0 12   1.03
F                   0.00   0.00  13.07   22.43  28.58   3.50  67.58    0.00   0.00   3.52   5.82   7.43   0.88  17.66
T                   0.00   0.00  13.07   23.05  31.51   4.00  71.63    0.00   0.00   3.52   5.99   8.18   1.00  18.69
Subtotal Substation, &
I ransmission
L                   0.00   0.00   0.29    4.59   2.52   0.23   7.63   0.00   0.00   0.08   1.21   0.64   0.06   1.99
F                   0.00   0.00   1.79   22.11  12.23   2.03  38.16    0.00   0.00   0.48   5.76   3.18   0.52   9.94
T                   0.00   0.00   2.08   26.70  14.75   2.26  45.79    0.00   0.00   0.56   6.96   3.82   0.59  11.92
Subtotal Engineerin
L                   0.11   0.34   0.70    0.74   0.72   0.16   2.77   0.04   0.10   0.19   0.20   0.18   0.04   0.75
F                   0.91   2.14   4.31    4.65   4.47   0.91  17.39   0.29   0.61   1.16   1.21   1.16   0.23   4.66
T                   1.02   2.48   5.01    5.39   5.19   1.07  20.16    0.33   0.71   1.35   1.41   1.34   0.27   5.41
Total Tedzani liI
r ~           ~     0.11   0.34   5.47   21.72  16.47   2.84  46.95    0.04   0.10   1.49   5.73   4.20   (.71  12.26
F                   0.91   2.14  26.93   76.16  64.81  10.54 181.49    0.29   0.61   7.25  19.81  16.85   2.66  47.47
T                   1.02   2.48  32.40   97.88  81.28  13.38 228.44    0.33   0.71   8.74  25.53  21.05   3.37  59.73
B. Generatlon Rehabilitatlon
---T-                -       .05   .05   -      -      -     0.10      -     0.01   0.01    -    -      -     0.02
F                    0.00   2.98   2.23   0.00   0.00   0.00   5.21   0.00   0.86   0.61   0.05   0.00   0.00   1.47
T                    0.00   3.03   2.28   0.00   0.00   0.00   5.31   0.00   0.87   0.62   0.05   0.00   0.00   1.49
C. institutlon Strgetening (ESC0M)
I  -  -  -      -    -       -      -        -     -      -      -      -      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . .
F                   1.23   0.52   0.00   0.19   0.00   0.00   1.94    0.40   0.15   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.60
T                   1.23   0.52   0.00   0.19   0.00   0.00   1.94    0.40   n 15  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.60
Total Power
TtL IPower          0.11   0.39   5.52  21.72  16.47   2.84  47.05    0.04   0.11   1.50   5.73    4.2  0.71  12.28
F                   2.14   5.64  29.16  75.23  63.86  10.39 188.64     0.69   1.62   7.86  19.81  16.85   2.66  49.54
T                   2.25   6.03  34.68  96.95  80.33  13.23 235.69     0.73   1.73   9.36  25.54  21.05   3.37  61.82



MALAWI                                                ANNEX 5.2
ENERGY I PROJECT                                            Page 4 of 4
WOOD ENERGY COMPONENT
Year Ending June 30              1989     1990    1991    1992    1993    1994  TOTAL           1989    1990    1991    1992       1993     1994  TOTAL
Total                                                    (in million Kwacha)                                           (in million dollars)
Including
Recurrent Costs
a. Forest Mgmt.                  0.38     4.89     0.81     0.97     0.83     1.44     9.29    0.14      1.58    0.23     0.27     0.22     0.37     2.80
b. Forest Extension              0.17     1.69     0.49     0.49     0.84     0.71     4.30    0.06     0.51     0.14     0.14     0.22     0.18      1.26
n. Retail Nurseries              0.44     0.94     0.76    0.77      1.27     1.13     6.30    0.17     0.31     0.22     0.21     0.33     0.29     1.62
d. Planting Incentives           0.00    0.20      0.36    0.60      0.50    0.80      2.15     0.00    0.08     0.10     0.14     0.13     0.15     0.59
e. Expansion of FD               0.27     0.63     0.30     0.30     0.30     0.44     2.22    0.10     0.20     0.09     0.08     0.08     0.11     0.66
f. Plantations                   0.45     1.13     0.79     0.79     0.74     1.02     4.92    0.17     0.38     0.23     0.22     0.20     0.28      1.43
g. Fuel Effici-ncy               0.12     0.23     0.20     0.12     0.12     0.15    0.94     0.06    0.08      0.06     0.03     0.03     0.04     0.28
h. Training                      0.03     1.75     0.16     0.16    0.16    0.16       2.40    0.01     0.66     0.06     0.04     0.04     0.04     0.74
i. Planning Unit                 0.03     0.80     0.43     0.24     0.22     0.28    2.01     0.01     0.26     0.13     0.07     0.08     0.07     0.69
j. Monitoring Unit               0.09     0.37     0.12     0.12     0.12     0.17     1.00     0.03     0.12    0.04     0.03     0.03     0.04     0.30
k. Research                      0.03     1.12     0.31     0.32     0.32     0.32     2.40    0.01     0.38     0.09     0.09     0.08     0.08     0.71
Subtotal Baseline Costs          1.99    13.64    4.72     4.79     5.41     6.41    36.95    0.75      4.41     1.38    1.31     1.43      1.64    10.90
Physical contingencies        0.00    0.86      0.07     0.08     0.11     0.10     1.20    0.00     0.28     0.02     0.23     0.03     0.24     0.4-fl
Price contingencies           0.00     2.59     1.43     1.98     2.88     4.14    13.02     0.00    0.84     0.41     0.54     0.76      1.06     3.61
Subtotal w/ Contingencies        1.99    17.08    6.22     6.86     8.40   10.64    51.18      0.75     5.53     1.80     1.87    2.22     2.72    14.88
of which Foreign Exchange     0.71    12.64     3.11     3.10    4.40    6.23    30.18      0.27     4.09     0.90     0.85     1.16      1.59    8.85
Local Cost           1.28     4.44     3.10     3.76     4.01     4.41    20.99    0.48      1.44    0.90     1.03     1.06     1.12     8.02
E. Separcte Investment and
Recurrent Costs
0
o  Investment Costs
a. Civil Works                   0.30     8.95     0.16    0.09      0.30    0.06      7.8.    0.11     2.26    0.04      0.02     0.08     0.01      2.62
b. Vehicles and Machinery        0.00    0.76      0.02     0.02     0.66     1.51    2.85     0.00     0.24     0.01     0.01     0.14     0.38     0.78
c. Equipmnt A Office Furn.       0.00     1.26     0.00     0.00    0.02      0.00     1.28     0.00    0.41     0.00     0.00     0.01     0.01     0.42
d. Incentives for Small Formers   0.00    0.20     0.35     0.50    0.60    0.60       2.16    0.00     0.06     0.10     0.14     0.13     0.15      0.59
*  Seed Money for Stove Entrap.  0.00    0.08      0.08     0.08     0.08    0.08      0.38     0.00    0.02     0.02     0.02     0.02     0.02     0.10
Subtotal Investment Costs     0.30     9.23     0.69     0.69     1.44     2.24    14.48     0.11     2.99    0.17     0.19     0.38     0.67      4.40
Recurrent Costs
a. Salaries & Allowances         0.34     0.91     0.90     0.91     0.91     0.91     4.87    0.13     0.29     0.26     0.25     0.24     0.23      1.40
b. Vehicles A Mach.Oper.Costs    0.14     1.41     1.43     1.43     1.46     1.46     7.33    0.06    0.48      0.41     0.39     0.39     0.37     2.07
c. Maint.& Office Overheads      0.00     0.00    0.25    0.26    0.26    0.26         1.00    0.00     0.00     0.07     0.07     0.07     0.07     0.27
d. Materials                     0.50     0.52     0.32     0.50    0.36    0.64       2.72     0.19    0.17     0.09     0.14     0.09     0.14      0.81
e. Unskilled Labor               0.60     0.42     0.43     0.49    0.49      0.50    2.93     0.23     0.14     0.12     0.13     0.13     0.13     0.88
f. Wkshops, Studies A Trng.      0.00    0.67      0.56     0.48     0.46    0.48      2.53    0.00     0.18     0.16     0.13     0.12     0.12     0.72
g. Technical Assistance          0.10    0.58      0.24     0.05     0.05    0.05      1.08    0.04     0.19     0.07     0.01     0.01     0.01     0.33
Subtotal Recurrent Costs       1.69    4.40     4.12     4.10     3.97     4.17    22.45     0.63     1.42     1.19     1.12     1.05     1.08     6.47
Subtotal Baseline Costs
Physical Contingencies        0.00     0.85     0.07     0.03    0.11      0.10     1.20    0.00      0.28    0.02     0.02     0.03      0.02     0.37
Price Contigencies            0.00     2.59     1.43     1.98     2.88     4.14    13.02     0.00    0.84     0.41     0.54     0.76      1.08     3.61
Subtotal w/ Contingencies        1.99    17.08    8.22     6.86    8.40   lo.e4    51.18       0.75     5.63     1.80    1.87      2.22     2.72    14.88
of which Foreign Exchange       0.71    12.64     3.11     3.10     4.40     6.23    30.18    0.27     4.09     0.90     0.85      1.16     1.69     8.86
Local Costs             1.28    4.44     3.10     3.76     4.01     4.41    20.99     0.48     1.44    0.90      1.03     1.06     1.12     6.02
*Does not include costs of wood energy program during fiscal year 1989, which were partially financed with a PPF
of S7S0,000 to be retroactively financed under the proposed Credit.



- 81 -
ANE  6'.
MALAW!
ENEROC POJECT
COST ESTIMATES I
L      F       T                  L        F        T
POWER COMPONENTS               (Million Kwachas)                  (Million Dollars)
A. TEDZANI III
Base Cost (July 1987)
1. Civil Works
1.1 Power Stntion,
Intake A Access       6.14     7.63    12.77              2.80     3.42     5.72
1.2 Penstock,
Surgechamber,
Headrace tunnml       9.24    18.74   22.98               4.18     8.16   10.80
1.3 Stoelwork             0.33     1.81     2.14              0.16    0.81      0.96
1.4 Gates A Screens       0.14     0.14     1.01              0.08     0.39    0.46
Subtotal         14.86    24.04    88.90              8.87    10.78    17.44
2. Electromechanicsl
2.1 Turbines, Governors
Inlet Valves          0.29    11.60    11.89              0 '4    6.20      5.83
2.2 Powor house
crane                 0.56     1.29     1.84              0.26    0.68    0.83
2.8 Generators            0.87   13.74    14.11               0.17    8.18      6.38
2.4 Auxiliaries           0.68     2.89     3.06              0.30    1.07      1.37
Subtotal          1.87   29.01    30.89               0.84    18.01    13.86
3. Substations
3.1 Switchgoar A
control               3.22    14.14   17.88               1.44    6.34      7.78
8.2 Transmission          0.28    0.87    0.96                0.12    0.80    0.42
8.3 Scads A PLC           0.13     1.47     1.60              0.08     0.88    0.72
Subtota'         3.63   16.28    19.91               1.62    7.30      8.91
4. Engineering and
Supervision             1.38     7.85    9.23               0.82    8.52      4.14
Total Baso Cost    21.73    77.18   98.91              9.61    34.61    44.22
5. Contingencies
Physical              2.92    8.91    11.83               1.29     3.99     6.28
Price                22.31   96.40   117.71               1.36    8.87    10.22
Subtotal         26.23   104.31   124.54              2.84    12.86    16.50
Total, Cost of Tedzani
Including Contingeincies    48.9e  1111.48   228.44            12.28    47.47    69.73
j/ Contingencies shown separately



- 82 -
ANNEX 6.8
Page 2 of t
L      F       T                  L        F        T
POWER COMPONENTS               (Million Kwachas)                  (Million Dollars)
________________              ------------------                 ------------------
B. GENERATION
REHABILITATION (Tcdzoni)
1.  Bass Costs              0.08     2.60     2.66              0.02     1.16     1.18
1.1 Contingencies
Physical             0.01    0.26    0.27                  _      0.12    0.12
Price                0.08     2.86    2.88                 _      0.19    0.19
Subtotal          0.04    2.61    2.65                  __     0.81     0.81
Total Ceneration
Rehabilitation  0.10    6.21      6.31              0.02     1.47     1.49
C. INSTITUTION
STRENGTHENING
1.  Base Costa                --    1.11      1.11                --    0.60    0.60
1.1 Contingencl i
Physical               --    0.11    0.11                  --    0.05    0.05
Price                  --    0.72    0.72                  --    0.06    0.06
Subtotal            --    0.83    0.88                  --    0.10    0.10
Total Institution
Strongthening       --     1.94     1.94                --    0.80    0.60
Total Power
1. Base Costs              21.79   80.89  102.68                9.883   8.27   45.90
L.1 Contingencies
Physical             2.93    9.2C   12.21                1.29    4.18    6.46
Price               22.34   98.47   120.81               1.36    9.11    10.46
Subtotal         26.27   107.76  133.01               2.64    13.27    16.22
Total Power      47.06   188.68  286.69              12.28   49.64    61.82
ENERGY COMPONENTS
_________________
D. CHARCOAL
1.  Base Costs              0.18     2.42    2.60               0.07    0.82      0.89
1.1 Contingencies
Physicrl             0.02    0.24    0.26                0.01     0.08    0.09
Price                0.06    0.30    0.36                0.02     0.10    0.12
Subtotal          0.08      .54      .62              0.08     0.18    0.21
Total Charcoal    0.26    2.96    8.22                0.10     1.00    1.10
E. WOOD ENERGY
1. Base Costs
1.1  Investment Costs     4.29    9.90   14.19                1.26     8.04     4.80
Recurrent Costs     11.94   10.02   22.76                8.47     8.14    8.81
Subtotal        16.23   20.72   86.95                4.73    6.18    10.91



- 83 -
ANNEX 5.8
Page  of 6
1.2 Contingencies
Physical              0.48      0.72     1.20              0.13      0.24     0.87
Price                 4.28      8.74    18.02              1.17      2.44     3.68
Subtotal           4.76     9.48    14.22               1.80     2.88      3.97
Total Wood Energy 20.99    30.18    61.17               6.02     8.86    14.88
F. ENERGY PRICING STUDY
1. Base Costs                  --      0.93     0.93                --      0.40     0.40
1.1  Contingencies
Physical                --     0.09      0.09                --      0.06     0.06
Price                   --     0.48      0.48                --      0.06     0.06
Subtotal             --     0.67      0.67                --     0.10      0.10
Total Energy
Pricing              --     1.60      1.50                --     0.60      0.60
Total Energy Component
1. Base Costs               16.41    24.07    40.48               4.80      7.40    12.20
1.1 Contingencies
Physical              0.60      1.05     1.66              0.14      0.37     0.61
Price                 4.14      9.62    18.86              1.19      2.69     S.76
Subtotal           4.84    10.67    15.41               1.33     2.96      4.28
Total Energy
Component         21.26    84.64    66.89               6.12    10.86    18.48
Total Energy I Project
1.  Base Costa              88.20   104.96   148.18              14.48    48.67    68.10
1.1 Contingencies
Physical              3.43    10.88    13.76               1.43    4.63       6.98
Price                26.68   107.99   134.87               2.64   11.70    14.24
Subtotal          80.11   118.82   148.48               3.97    18.28    20.20
Total Energy I   88.31   223.27   291.68               18.40    69.90    78.30
Project                                                                     -



- 84 -
ANNEX 5.3
Page 4 of 6
MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES y
L       F        T                 L        F        T
POWER COMPONENTS              (Million Kwachas)                  (Million Dollars)
________________             ------------------                 ------------------
A. TEDZANI III
1. Clvil Works
1.1 Power Station,
Intake I Accesa       11.24    18.60   29.84               2.94    4.85      7.79
1.2 Penstock,
Surgechamber,
Headrace tunnel       20.20    88.48    68.68              5.28     8.78    14.01
1.3 Steelwork              0.74    4.12    4.88                0.19    1.07      1.26
1.4 Gates A Screens        0.82    2.16    2.48                0.08    0.56    0.86
Subtotal          82.60   68.38   90.88                8.49   16.22    23.71
2. Electromechanical
2.1 Turbines, Covernors
Inlet Valves           0.683   26.93   27.68               0.16     7.03    7.19
2.2 Power house
crano                  1.19    2.98    4.15                0.30    0.78      1.09
2.8 Generators             0.82   82.22   83.04                0.21     8.40    8.81
2.4 Auxillarios            1.42    6.46    6.88                0.86     1.44     1.80
Subtotal           4.06   87.67   71.62                1.04   17.68    18.89
8. Substations
3.1 Switchgoor A
control                8.75   83.12   89.87                1.78    8.61    10.87
8.2 Transmission           0.60    1.54    2.14                0.16    0.41    0.66
8.8 Scads A PLC            0.28    8.60    8.78                0.07    0.92    0.99
Subtotal          7.683   38.16   45.79               1.99    9.94    11.98
4. Engineering and
Supervision              2.77   17.89   20.16                0.74     4.68     6.40
Total Tedzant
III Cost         46.98  181.48  228.44               12.28   47.47    69.78
C Contingencies included in each subcomponent



- 85 -
ANNEX 6.8
Page s oT 6
L        F        T                 L         F        T
POWER COMPONENTS               (MUillon Kwachau)                    (Million Dollars)
B. GENERATION
REHABILITATION             0.10      6.21     6.81              0.02      1.4?     1.49
C. INSTITUTION
STRENGTHENING                --      1.94     1.94                --      0.60     0.60
Total Power        47.08   188.88   286.69              12.28    49.64    81.82
ENERGY COMPONENTS
_________________
D. CHARCOAL PRODUCTION        0.28      2.96     8.22              0.10      1.00     1.10
E. WOOD ENERGY               20.99    80.18    61.17               8.02      8.88    14.88
F. ENERGY PRICING STUDY          --     1.50     1.60                --      0.50     0.60
Total Energy       21.25    484.    66.89                B.12    10.8B    18.48
Total Energy I     B8.81   223.27   291.68              18.40    69.80    78.80
Proj ect



- 86 -
ANNEX 5.4
MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Project                        Bid   Contract      Implementation
Item              Bidding  Opening   Award   Beginning Completion
POWER COMPONENTS
A. TEDZANI III SCHEME 1/
Civil works
Power Station               12190      3/91      5/91       6/91        4194
Penstock, tunnel            12/90      3/91      5/91       6/91       12/92
Steelwork                   12/90      3/91      5/91       6/91       12/92
Gates & Screens              12/90     3/91      5/91        6/91       8/92
Electromechanical
Powercrane                  12/90      3/91      5/91       1/92        7/92
Turbines                    12/90      3/91      5/91       6/91      2-4/94
Generators                  12/90      3/91      5/91       6/91      2-4/94
Auxiliaries                  12/90     3/91      5/91        6/91       2/94
Sui'stations
Switchgear &
control                  2/92      5/92     7/92        8/92       12/93
Transmission                12/92      3/93      5/93       6/91        1/94
Scada & PLC                  2/92      5/92      7/92       8/92       12/93
Engineering and
Supervision
Engineering                   4/89     7/89      8/89       9,89        6/94
Model Testing & Drilling    6/89       8/89      9/89       10/89      12,89
Commissioning 1st Unit                                                    2/94
Commissioning 2nd Unit                                                    4/94
B. GENERATION REHABILITATION
Runners                         6/89     8/89      9/89       10/89      12/91
Windings                        6/89     8/89      9/89       10/89      10/91
C. INSTITUTION STRENGTHENING
Studies                         6/89     7/89      8/89        9/89       9/90
Procurement                     4/89     6189      8/89        9/89       3(90
D. CHARCOAL                          -         -      4/89        5/89        6/89
E. ENERGY PRICING CONSULTANTS    4/89       6189      7/89        8/89        8190
1/ For major equipment, shipping time of 4 months, manufacturing period or 9-13
months and installation period of 6-8 months has been assumed.



- 87 -                                  ANNEX 5.5
M1LAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS 1/
-----------------Disbursements-
_-------__Semester---------           ----Cu ilative---
IDA Fiscal Year             Energy   Power       Energy   Power    US$           X of
and Semester Ending          US$ million           Z of Total       Million    Total
6.30.89                 1.5         -          10          -      1.5           3
12.31.89                 3.2       ./           22          2      5.4          12
6.30.90                 2.8       .8           19          2      9.0          19
12.31.90                  .7       .8            5          3    10.5           22
6.30.91                  .7      2.2            5          7    13.4           29
12.31.91                  .8      2.2            5          7    16.4           35
6.30.92                  .8      /.0            5         22    24.2           52
12.31.92                  .9      7.0            6         22    32.1           69
6.30.93                 1.0      4.7            7         15    37.8           81
12.31.93                 1.2      4.7            8         15    43.7           94
6.30.94                 1.2      1.8            8          5    46.7          100
1/ Based on estimated project costs and in compliance with the Bank loans and
IDA credits for energy projects in the Africa Region.
The closing date is December 31, 1994.



- 88 -
ANNEX 5.6
MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
MONITORING GUIDELINES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Guidelines for monitoring performances on project implementation have
been discussed with ESCOM and Government organs.  These guidelines include a
series of target dates in the Implementation Schedule of the Project (Annex
4.4). Forecasts against actual results would be closely monitored by IDA for,
among others, the following:
(a) preparation of TOR, invitation and contract award for consultants;
(b) issue of bid documents, bid closing, contract award;
(c) progress of construction and installation of equipment;
(d) project cost estimates and financing;
(e)  electricity sales and number of consumers by categories;
(f) electricity generation, hydro and thermal;
(g) system losses (1 of net generation);
(h) installed capacity; hydro and thermal;
(i) firm capacity and generation capability;
(j) periodic forecast for sales and generation;
(k) transmission and distribution facilities;
(1) planned and unplanned outages and their duration for power plants;
transmission and distribution systems;
(m) total and specific revenue from electricity sales by category;
(n) number of days of receivables;
(o) number of employees per consumer;
(p) self-gcnerated funds contributed to investment;
(q) debt-equity ratio;
(r) debt service coverage;
(s) audited accounts and annual activity reports.



- 89 -
ANNEX 6.1
MAUAWI
ENEROV IROJECT
ELECTRICITY suPPLY COMMISSION OF mALAwi
INCOME STATEMENTS FOR YEARS ENDINM DECEMBER il. l98-1 
(K million)
ACTUAL    -----------------------------PROJECTED---------------------------
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 81:              1987     1989     1989     1990     1991     1992      1993     1994     1996
- ---    ----  - ---       - ---    - ---    - ---     - ---    - ---    - ---
SALES (GWh)                        486.70   482.00   6a7.79   673.13   821.84   869.87   699.21   784.08   839.93
AVERAGE TARIFF (Tambala/kWh)         8.68      9.82    11.08    12.73    18.80    14.70    16.43    18.90    21.74
SALES REVENUES                      89.80    46.87    69.48    72.98    84.67    96.9A   114.88   144.41   182.60
OTHER REVENUES                       1.18      0.88     0.97     1.06     1.17     1.29      1.42     1.68     1.71
- - - --   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -----   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---
T3TAL REVENUES                40.98    47.26    60.45    74.02    86.74    98.22   116.80   146.97   184.32
EXPENSES
SALARIES                           4.22      4.78     5.24     5.78     6.34     6.97     7.87      8.43     9.28
FUEL                               0.88      1.44     2.00     5.67     1.70     8.a8     8.64      1.08     1.48
TRANSPORT                          2.00      2.40     2.78     8.04     1.28     3.48     8.80      8.78     3.97
REP.& MAINT.                       1.65      1.87     2.09     2.47     2.91     3.40     8.97      4.48     6.81
ADMIN.& SUPPLY                     3.04      8.46     3.98     4.38     4.71     4.94     6.19      6.46     6.72
OTHER                              0.26     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
CORPORATE TAXES                    0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    17.71    22.81
DEPRECIATION                       8.34    13.86    19.71    23.34    27.40   ;12.10    37.48    41.89    54.82
- - - - - - -  -- - --   - -- ---   ----- - -- .-----   - -- ---   ------ - . -- -- -
TOTAL                         20.38    27.78    86.78    44.56    48.31    64.20    84.44    82.65   103.89
OPERATINf  INCOME                   20.67    19.47    24.87    29.47    39.43    44.02    61.86    83.41    80.42
INTEREST CHARGES                     8.62     7.72    11.36    11.08    10.26    12.63    11.47    12.88    30.43
NET INCOME                          12.06    11.76    18.32    18.41    29.18    31.39    40.38    60.66    49.99
RATE OF RETURN (S)                  12.4       7.3      6.1      8.0      8.7      8.4      8.9       6.7      7.1
1/ 1987 is based on partial revalued assets while the remaining years are based on fully revalued assets.



- 90 -                                      ANIU  6.2
MALAWI
ENERCYITROJECT
ELECTRCITY RODPPLY COmmISSION
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS STATEMENT
FOR YEARS ENDINC DECEHER 813. 1967-199f
(K miIi Ion)
ACTUAL   --------------------------------PROJECTED ------------------------------------
1989-
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 81:         1987     1988      1989     1990      1991     1992      1998      1994     1996    1994
- - -  -  -  - - -   - ---    - ---     - ---    - ---     - ---     - ---    - ---
SOURCES OF FUNDS
GENERATION FROM OPERATION
OPERATING INCOME            20.66    19.47    24.68    29.47    89.43    44.02    61.86   68.41    80.42   262.8
DEPRECIATION                 8.84    18.86    19.71    28.84    27.40    32.10    87.48    41.69    64.82   181.8
- --     ----   ------  ----- --  ----- --  ----- --  -   --- - - -  -----  - -- ---  -- ---
TOTAL                     28.89    88.32    44.89    52.81    66.88    78.12    89.88   106.10   136.26   484.6
CONSUMERS' DEPOSIT                0.11     0.14      0.16     0.18      0.21     0.24      0.27     0.82      0.38      1.4
CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION              2.99     8.29      8.62     8.98      4.88     4.82      5.80     6.88      8.41    27.9
GRANTS                            0.00     8.17      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    00.0
BORROWINGS                        6.87    88.29    27.07    65.81    78.90    96.49    96.60   115.75   182.70   474.6
TOTAL SOURCES             a8.88    78.20    76.28   122.78   146.32   176.66   191.60   226.99   274.72   938.6
-3--   ===-    u====   -----   =====    ====    ===7==   =u===   ==                   _3=
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
CONSTRUCTION EXP.
PROPOSED PROJECT                 0.00     0.00      2.26     6.00    84.29    96.97    82.49    18.64        0.00   236.6
GENERATION                       0.00     4.24    12.68    21.30    18.16       4.62    26.96   i13.61   163.31   197.1
TRANSMISSION                    0.00    85.61    12.81    48.56    al.l8        8.66      4.66     2.77      7.02   103.0
DISTRIBUTION                     0.00     8.00    15.26    16.16    16.29    16.66    14.40    14.06    14.98    91.7
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION           0.00      6.20      2.22     2.ea      4.80     8.39      6.81     6.81      8.48    31.2
OTHER                           17.82     0.88      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.0
IDC                             0.00      2.60     0.87      4.18      9.29    12.01    19.08    24.20    14.07    69.8
- --     ------ ----        ---        ---     -----     ----   -  ----   - - -- ---   - - -- -
TOTAL                      17.62    6e.48    46.48    92.78   114.00   147.11   164.89   174.47   192.81   728.2
DEBT SERVICE
REPAYMENT                      9.69    11.18    16.06    17.24    18.12    20.19    22.26    84.66    44.02   128.4
INTEREST                       8.62      7.72    11.36    11.06    10.26    13.0R    11.47    12.86    30.43    69.6
- ----   ----     ---        ---   -----   ------ - -    ------ - -    - -------   - - -- ---   - - -- -
TOTAL                      18.11    18.90    27.40    28.30    28.87    82.82    83.72    47.41    74.46   198.0
INCREASE IN WORKING CAPITAL      3.18      2.82      2.86     1.72      2.96    -3.27      8.89     6.11      7.46    12.2
TOTAL APPLICATIONS         88.86    78.20    76.28   122.78   145.32   176.66   191.60   226.99   274.72   938.6
=====   u==-   ====e=   ===-.=u           ======   =      =_==-   ==_ ==    ===
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE              1.6      1.6       1.6      1.8       2.1      2.1       2.4      2.0       1.8
NET CASH GENERATI3N/
CONSTRUCTION (%)                    53       32        42       29        86       56        37       34        31



- 91 -
ANE  6.8
MALAWI
ENRC  I PRJECT
ELECTRICITY  WPU COWUNISSIN OF UALAWI
BALANCE SHEET FOR YEARS ENDING DECENBER 31, 1987-10M6
(K millIlon)
ACTUAL ------------------PROJECTED----------------------------
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31:                 1987     1988      1989      1990      1991     1992      1993      1994     1996
----     - ---    - ---     - ---     - ---     - ---    - ---     - ---     - ---
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
PLANT IN OPERATION                 239.81   489.25   618.69   767.98   907 18  1060.24  1178.01  1660.60  1703.76
DEPRECIATION                        65.21   127.97   176.90   224.42   278.26   826.56   885.67   466.81   s42.69
- - ---   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---
NET PLANT                          174.60   861.28   442.69  658.65   688.92   736.17   792.84  1096.19  1181.07
WORKS IN PROGRESS                      13.16     0.06    24.10    68.06   103.26   182.72   274.78   162.13   312.64
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH A BANKS                         0.94      8.78      4.42     4.80      4.46      4.94     4.32      4.68      4.29
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                  6.67      7.73      9.91    12.16    14.10    16.16    19.16    24.07    30.43
INVENTORY                            8.93      9.87      9.78    10.76    11.87    18.61    16.90    17.67    23.26
PREPAYMNT A ADVANCES                 1.02      1.10      1.21      1.88     1.46      1.61      1.77     1.96      2.14
- - - --   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -----   - -- ---   - -----   - -- ---   - -- ---
TOTAL                             17.48    21.98    26.88    29.04    31.88    a8.82    41.16    48.27    60.13
TOTAL. ASSETS                    206.21   383.81   492.12   828.86   7B8.6e   934.81  1108.27  1305.69  1533.74
EQUITY A LIABILITIES
EQUITY
RETAINED EARNINGS                   61.0B    62.81    76.13    94.64   123.72   166.11   196.60   246.04   298.03
CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION                12.46    15.74    19.86    23.84    27.71    32.63    37.83    48.B6    60.08
GRANTS                               0.00      8.17      8.17     8.17      8.17      8.17      8.17     8.17      8.17
;.EVALUATION RESERVE                 0.00   120.34   180.82   227.71   266.92   802.80   834.67   383.69   442.73
- - - --   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---
TOTAL                             63.61   207.06   283.98   863.76   426.62   498.62   684.06   681.65   797.00
LONG-TERd DEBT                       122.18   149.36   179.40   243.09   308.66   391.62   466.22   664.25   648.91
CONSUMERS' DEPOSITS                     0.91     1.06      1.20      1.38     1.59      1.83      2.10     2.42      2.78
CURRENT LIABILITIES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                     1.51      1.61      1.78     2.64      2.07      2.49     3.17      2.42      2.80
PROJECT CREDITORS                    0.11      1.17      1.68     2.42      1.67      3.60      3.67     4.76      4.83
PROJECT CREDITORS                    4.67      4.90      4.90     4.80      4.70      9.80      9.40    10.00    12.70
ACCRUED INTEREST                     1.41      1.72      2.04     2.b3      3.26      4.11      5.09     6.18      7.42
CURRENT PORTION ON LTD              11.01    16.06    17.24    18.12    20.19    22.26    34.56    44.02    67.30
- - - --   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---
TOTAL                             18.61    26.35    27.64    30.41    81.89    42.15    66.88    67.37    86.06
TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES       206.21   883.81   492.12   628.64   768.66   934.21  1108.27  1306.69  1653.74
==_=   S_=#SS#SS3   = =    ___===-==S3S-==_
RECEIVABLES (DAYS)                        59       60        60        60       60        60        60        60       60
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO                     02:38    40:60    37:83    40:80    41:59    43:67    43:67    43:67    43:67



- 92 -                  two"-.J
ANNEX 6.4
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY COMMISSION OF MALAWI
NOTES AND ASSUMTIONS FOR FINANCIAL STATEMES
Sales and Revenues
1.      ESCOM's energy projections appear in Annex 5.1 and are based on the
consultant's base forecast (Annex 3.2).  Revenues are based on yearly tariff
increases of about 12Z, 15?, 72, 8?, 12?, 15Z, and 152 implemented in 1989
through 1995, respectively.
Operating Costs
2.      Fuel consumption for energy generation is assumed to increase in 1990
and 1993, the years prior to completion of the fifth hydro unit of Nkula B and
the completion of Tedzani hydro development, zespectively.  Current fuel oil
prices were used for 1988 and adjusted to their economic cost in 1989 and
onwards. Provision for international price escalation was made and converted
to Malawi kwacha at variable exchange rates (para. 4). In view of the present
overstaffing, salaries were increased annually by 10? reflecting increase in
real terms from 1990 onwards, only. Repairs and maintenance have been calculated
at an average of 0.35? of gross revalued assets. It has been assumed that ESCOM
will not be liable for corporate taxes until 1994 due to the large investment
allowance. Corporate taxes of 22Z only on net income, taking into account the
investment allowance, has been assumed for 1994 and 1995. Other cost have been
adjusted for local inflation.
Depreciation
3.      Depreciation has been charged at 3.3? of the revalued gross fixed assets
value in line with present practice.
Fixed Assets
4.      Fixed assets and accumulated depreciation have been adjusted to reflect
estimated replacement values based on foreign components of 80?, a local
component of 20?, yearly adjustments to the Kwacha to take into account the
difference between international and domestic inflation, and the following
estimated international and local inflation:
Year ending Dec. 31:      1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Domestic Infl. Z          20      15     10    7.5       5       5      5       5
International Infl. ?      3       3      3       4      4       4      4       4
It should be noted that the assumptions regarding the future value of the Kwacha
are based on present macro-variables and may not reflect actual changes in the
future.



- 93 -
ANNEX 6.4
Page 2 of 2
Current Assets
5.      Accounts receivable have been estimated at 60 days, reflecting past and
present practice.  Inventories have been calculated at 1.5% on preceding years'
gross revalued plant in operation. Prepayment and advances have been estimated
to increase by 1OX yearly.
Current Liabilities
6.      Accounts payable are estimated at 60 days of ESCOM's operating expenses
excluding salaries, corporate taxes and depreciation. Payments by ESCOM to local
supplJers related to their projects have been estimated at 30 days while payments
to foreign suppliers, financed through borro-ings and representing mcstly
retention money, have been estimated at 10 of the foreign cost of the investment
program.
Long Term Debt
7.      The future foreign exchange debt, except the borrowing from CDC which
is direct to ESCOM, would arise from soft-term loans to the government and onlent
to ESCOM to finance the foreign exchange cost of its investment program.  The
proceeds of the soft-term loans, including tLa proposed IDA credit, are assumed
to be onlent to ESCOM at 7.5'Z annual interest (the present Bank rate), and are
assumed to be repayable in 20 years, including 5 years grace, with ESCOM taking
the foreign exchange risk.



- 94 -
ANNEX 7.1
Page 1 of 2
LALAVI
ENERGY I PROJECT
LEAST COST POWER GENERATION PROGRAM
1.   Hydropower is the least-cost source of additional generating capacity
within Malawi, and, for the time being, imports are not a politically
acceptable means of satisfying dew nd for firm energy and power. Henca the
least-cost generation analysis focussed on the determination of the optimum
sizing and timing of the two potentially lowest-cost indigenous hydro-
gneration projects, Tedzani III and Kapichira.
2.   The time horizon selected for the analysis was the year 2000.  The
forecast of electricity demand for the base case scenario is summarized in
Table 1 for the period 1988-2000.
Table ls Electricity Demand Forecast, 1988-2000
Year                 Hiximum         Energy               Load
Demand (MV)    Demand (GVh)         Factor Cl)
1988                 105.9           592.6                63.9
1989                 114.1           636.6                63.7
1990                 122.5           678.4                63.3
1991                 133.4           736.1                63.0
1992                 139.6           771.4                63.1
1993                 146.3           808.5                63.1
1994                 158.2           873.4                63.0
1995                 172.3           949.3                62.9
1996                 190.6          1045.5                62.6
1997                 209.6          1144.5                62.3
1998                 230.4          1254.0                62.1
1999                 253.6          1375.8                61.9
2000                 279.5          1511.7                61.7
3.   The analysis was based on the currently-accepted reliability
criterion used in planning ESCOM's system, which is a loss of load
expectation (LOLE) of 50 hours'per year. This corresponds approximately to
a reserve capacity of the largest generating unit in the system, plus about
5-10 of the peak demand. An overall hydro plant availability of 92? was
assumed.
4.   The first stage of the least cost study consisted of the optimization
of the size of the generating units for Tedzani III. This analysis was
undertaken for installed capacities of 2x20MW, 2x25MW and 2x3WMW. The
results, summarized in the following table, indicate that, on the base case
demand forecast, the 25MW unit option is K6.7 million (10.3Z) less costly
than the 20MW option and K 3.3 million (5Z) less than the 30MW option at an
8? discount rate. The 25MW units opti,n allows Kapichira Phase I to be
delayed by one year, compared with the 20MW program, i.e. from 1996 to
1997. Increasing the unit size to 30MW does not aford a further saving on
Kapichira's investment schedule. Although for the low and high demand
forecasts the 25MW option is no longer the least cost solution, a
probabilistic treatment of these scenarios (60Z for the base case, 302 for
the low case and 102 for the high case) again shows a clear advantage for
the 25MW option.



- 95 -
ANNEX 7.1
Page 2 of 3
TABLE 2: UNIT SIZE COMPARISON FOR TEDZANI III
Present Value (K million)
Discount        Base      Low   High       Expected
Option               Rate (2)        Case       Case  Case        Case
Tedzani III             8            71.96    70.59  65.10        70.86
2x2OMW                 12            69.25    58.64  65.72        65.72
Tedzani III             o            65.23    71.38  68.34        67.39
2x25MW                 12            62.29    59.45  69.08        63.61
Tedzani III             8            68.49    74.57  71.39        70.60
2x30MW                 12            65.51    62.21  72.25        65.20
Note:  Expected values are based on the following probabilities:
base forecast    602
low forecast      30%
high forecast    10X
5.   The second stage of the least-cost analysis involved the selection of
the next hydro project within a long-term planning horizon. The results of
this s.ialysis, expressed in terms of the present value of the associated
cost .treams, are shown in Table 3.
TABLE 3: COSTS OF ALTERNATIVE SEQUENCES OF TEDZANI III AND KAPICHIRA
Present Value (K Million)
Option       Discount    Base       Low       High    Expected 1/ Additional
Rate (Z)    Case      Case       Case      Case          Cost 2/
Tedzani III       8         65.23    71.38       68,34     67.39
First            12         62.29    59.45       69.08     62.12         --
Kapichira         8          76.00    79.34      73.98     76.80         14.0%
First            12         74.77    67.99       76.47     73.08         17.4Z
Notes: 1/ Expected value based on the following probabilities:  base 602,
low 30%, high 10%.
2/ Compared with Tedzani III first.
This reveals that of Tedzani III before Kapichira is the least-cost option
under each demand scenario and at alternative discount rates.
6.   These results were tested for their sensitivity with respect to
variations in the projects' capital cost and for the inclusion of the costs
of a possible contingency dredging plan, in the event of a prolonged dry
hydrological period. As Table 4 shows, the choice of Tedzani III first is
robust with respect to these eventualities.



- 96 -
ANNEX 7.1
Page 3 of 3
TASLE 4i SEQUENCE OF TEDZANI III AND KAPICHIRA:
SENSITIVITY TO KEY PARAMETERS
(K Million 1987)
Option             Discount    Base      Capital   Cost      Contingency
Rate (2)    Case      Tedzani  Kapichira      Plan 1/
+202     -20Z
TedzanJ III           8        65.23    74.08      60.61         76.48
First                 12       62.29    68.53      56.11         69.35
Kapichira             8        76.00    77.12      61.76         85.78
First                 12       74.77    73.10      58.52         79.96
Notes  11 estimated on a probabilistic basis.



- 97 -
ANNEX 7.2
MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJEC'
ECONOMIC .'.NALYSIS OF ELECTRIC POVER COMPONENTS
Incremental      Benefits 2/               Costs (C million)         Net Benefits
Energy Demand    (I million)          Capital 31  Operating  Total   (K million)
Satisfied (GMh) 1/               Foreign 4/ Local
1989                                9.26      1.13              10.39    (10.39)
1990                                6.87      2.54               9.41    ( 9.41)
1991                               17.55      3.59              21.14    (21.14)
1992                               41.81    11.98               53.79    (53.79)
1993                               33.45      8.66              42.11    (42.11)
1994        11 5/    1.20           6.99      1.70     0.86      9.55      (8.34)
1995        49        2.31          2.04      0.31     0.86      3.21      (2.18)
1996       140       15.45          1.93      0.31     0.86      3.10     12.35
1997       254       27.94          1.89      0.3i     0.86      3.06     24.88
1998       254       27.94          2.53      0.19     0.86      3.58     24.36
1999       254       27.94          3.88      0.74     0.86      5.48     22.46
2000       254       27.94          3.88      0.64     0.86      5.38     22.56
2001       254       27.94          1.19      0.62     0.86      2.67     25.27
2002-20    254       27.94          1.19      0.62     0.86      2.60     25.27
1/    Using base scenario peak demand growth to assess incremental energy needs
and assuming maximum output of Tedzani is 276 GWh/a at 63Z load factor and
technical losses are 8Z of gross generation.
2/    At KO.11/kWh.
3/    Including 24Z of planned transmission and distribution investment
(i.e. proportion o'f Tedzani capacity to total 1989-97 and 15? from
1998-2020 system capacity).
4/    Adjusted for the differences between domestic and international inflation.
5/    Capacity deficit of 18MW during 2 hour system peak.
Economic Rate rof Return =10.65Z
Sensitivity. A sensitivity analysis, based on attributing 40? (i.e. a proportion
of Tedzani to Kapichira capacity) of planned transmission and distribution
investment gives a rate of return of 8.9?. This attribution presupposes that all
the investment on the transmission and distribution would be needed solely for the
additional generation capacity (see also para. 7.02).



- 98 -                               ANNEX 7.3
MALAWI ENERGY 1 PROJECT
LONG RUN AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COST OF ENERGY
COSTS --              ENERGY
Foreign     Local      Sales
YEAR       (mil US$)   (mil R)    (G)
1988          5.71     2.44
1989        12.91      5.12
1990        11.97    11.57
1991        17.11      6.39
1992        25.07    16.29          30.19
1993        22.53    16.07          62.68
1994        22.24    20.44         120.16
1995        27.03    18.00         188.16
1996        29.58    20.48         273.77
1997        22.48    11.82         361.42
1998        17.33      7.42        458.24
1999          7.68     4.42        566.04
2000          1.44     2.63        686.31
2001          1.44     2.63        820.87
2002          1.44     2.63        820.87
2003          1.44     2.63        820.87
2004          1.44     2.63        820.87
2005          1.44     2.63        820.87
2006          1.44     2.63        820.87
2007          1.44     2.63        820.87
2008          1.44     2.63        820.87
2009          1.44     2.63        820.87
2010          1.44     2.63        820.87
2011          1.44     2.63        820.87
2012          1.44     2.63        820.87
2013          1.44     2.63        820.87
2014          1.44     2.63        81.0.87
2015          1.44     2.63        820.87
2016          1.44     2.63        820.87
2017          1.44     2.63        820.87
2018          1.44     2.63        820.87
2019          1.44     2.63        820.87
2020       (109.79)  (58.05)       820.87
Discount                Discounted Values
Rate (Z)          Foreign        Local       Energy             Average
Costs         Costs        Sales           Incremental
(US$ mil)      (MK mil)      (GWh)          Cost (KWkMh)
8             140.31         96.91       4507.44             0.1040
10             129.53         87.41       3325.57             0.1295
12             119.18         79.05       2502.09             0.1578



- 99 -
ANNEX 7.4
MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF CHARCOAL COMPONENT
Year              Coats (1000)11                         Benefits        Net Benefits
Consult-  Capital  Operating    Total    Charcoal  Netback 1/
tants                                     Sales       Value
(tons)     (KOOO)
1988      270      200        200         670         3,000      240         (430)
1989      700      521        412        1633         7,000      560        (1073)
1990       -        -         412         412        10,000      800          388
1991       -        -         412         412        10,000      800          388
1992       -        -         412         412        10,000      800          388
1993       -        -         412         412        10,000      800         388
1994       -        -         412         412        10,000      800          388
1995       -        -         412         412        10,000      800          388
1996       -        -         412         412        10,000      800         388
1907       -        -         412         412        10,000      800          388
Notes:  1/  Imported inputs adjusted for the differences between domestic and
international inflation.
Economic Rate of Return
2/  At K80/ton                                            - 18.03?



- 100 -
ANNEX 7.5
Page 1 of 3
MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
A. Summary of Output from Direct Wood Production Components.
i.  Seedling production from retail nurseries
PY1      PY2      PY3       PY4      PY5      TOTAL
Per nursery (thousand)       100      150       180      200      200        830
60 nurseries (million)       6.0      9.0      10.8     12.0     12.0       49.8
From seed packages (million)0.6       0.7       0.e      0.8      0.9        3.8
TOTAL seedlings (million)   6.6       9.7      11.6     12.8     12.9       53.6
ii. Hectares planted
Smallholder woodlots 1       2112     3104      3712     4096     4128      17152
Mulanje                      550      550       550      550       550      2750
iii. Wood produced
Average                      Total Output
Estimated       Annual         Rotation           for one
Yield         Output         Period             Rotation
(m3lha)       ('000m3)        (yearsj             ('000m3)
Mulanje (2750 ha)         15            41             16                   660
Smallholder woodlots
(17152 ha)                10           171             20                  3420
TOTAL                                  212                                 4080
B. Cost of Obtaining Fuelwood through Depletion of the Indigenous Forest.
1.          Environmental  Costs.    An  attempt  is  made  to  estimate  the
environmental costs of forest depletion through the yield loss in maize (the
principal crop in Malawi) due to adverse climatic factors such as flooding, soil
erosion and water stress which are induced by deforestation. The National Sample
Survey of Agriculture (1980/81) indicated that adverse climatic factors accounted
for about 8-152 loss in maize yield.   It is assumed that two hectares of
indigenous forest clearfelled (yielding 80 m3 solid of wood) willl adversely
affect one hectare of agricultural land, causing a 12? decline in annual maize
productivity.
1 Assuming 80Z survival of seedlings and 2500 seedlitngs/hectare.



- 101 -
AMNEX 7.5
Page 2 of 3
Annual Yield Hybrid Maize (kg/ha)                         2500
122 Annual Yield Loss (kg/ha)                              300
Value of Annual Yield Loss (@MK240/ton)                   MK72
Value of Agric. Output Foregcne per m3 solid             MK0.9
2.          OpportunitZ cost of Labor,   In the absence of woodlots,  rural
households would collect wood from the indigenous forest. The economic cost of
fuelwood therefore includes not only the environmental costs but the opportunity
cost of the labor spent in gathering fuelwood rather than in other productive
activities. In 1984, it was estimated that households took around 7.5 labor davs
to collect one solid m3 which at the rural minimum wage represents a value of
MK 6.75/ solid m3. As deforestation increases, it is not unreasonable to suppose
that the time spent collecting wood could double, implying a cost in terms of
foregone returns to labor of MX13.5/solid m3.   Hence the economic value of
fuelwood from the small farmer woodlots is estimated at around MK14.4/solid m3.
3.          Transportation Costs.  Wood from the plantation at Mulanje will be
sold to nearby users in the Mulanje district which is the most heavily populated
district in Malawi.  It is assumed that, on average, wood from the Mulanje
plantation would be transported 20 km to consumers.   In the absence of the
plantation, wood would have to be fetched by lorry from much greater distances.
Given the degree of deforestation in the heavily populated Southern region, it
is assumed that 150 km is the expected average distance from which wood would
have to be fetched over the next 20 years.   Therefore the benefits of the
plantation wood include saving the cost of transporting wood an additional 130
km.
Transport costs for fetching wood from 130 km:
Round trip costs for 14-15 ton lorry carrying 22 stacked m3
- 130 x 1.30 + 130 x 2.00 - MK429 for 22 stacked m3 - MR27.9 solid m3.
Economic value of wood from Mulanje plantation = MK28.8/solid m3.
(transportation costs and agric losses avoided).
C.  Notes to ERR calculations.
1.          Costs in July 1988 prices, including physical contingencies. Foreign
exchange cost adjusted for the difference between domestic and international
inflation.
2.          No adjustment is made for taxes, as virtually all inputs are free
of import duties.



- 102 -
ANNEX 7.5
Page 3 of 3
3.         P?rvl%t demand for unskilled labor will occur principally in the peak
season and hence unskilled labor was priced at the official rural minimum wage
which is believed to reflect its scarcity value.
4.          No opportunity cost of land was included for the Mulanje component
as the site is steep and environmentally fragile and unsuitable for agricultural
cultivation.   For the woodlots the current rental cost of MIlO/hectare was
included as a rough proxy for the opportunity cost of land.
5.          Costs for woodlots are based on one hectare model for smallholders
shown in Annex 2, Table 4 of Staff Appraisal Report for Second Wood Energy
Project, updated to July 1988 prices.
6.          Yields for woodlots assume four 5 year rotations, average MAI = 10
m3/ha/anntun. Y'.elds for Mulanje plantation assumes four 4 year rotation, average
MAI= 15 m3/ha/annum.



Annex 7.6
- 103 -                            Page 1 -of 2
MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
TOTAL COSTS AND BENEFITS OF SKALLHOLDER WOODLOTS
(17152 hectares)
Costs        Yield        Benefits       Net benefits
Year               000 MK       000 m3        '000 MK          '000 MK
1                  781.3              0             0           -781.32
2                 1319.4              0             0          -1319.39
3                 1660.9              0             0          -1660.91
4                 1890.5              0             0          -1890.46
5                 1974.6              0             0          -1974.62
6                  493.6         105.6        1520.64           1027.060
7                  214.0         155.2        2234.88           2020.852
8                  190.6         185.6        2672.64           2482.084
9                  194.4         204.8        2949.12           2754.734
10                 196.8         206.4        2972.16           2775.355
11                 197.0         105.6        1520.64           1323.633
12                 184.3         155.2        2234.88           2050.574
13                 190.5         185.6        2672.64           2482.084
14                 194.4         204.8        2949.12           2754.734
15                 196.8         206.4        2972.16           2775.355
16                 197.0         105.6        1520.64           1323.633
17                 184.3         155.2        2234.88           2050.574
18                 190.6         185.6        2672.64           2482.084
19                 194.4         204.8        2949.12           2754.734
20                 196.8         206.4        2972.16           2775.355
21                 197.0         105.6        1520.64           1323.633
22                               155.2        2234.88           2234.88
23                               185.6        2672.64           2672.64
24                               204.8        2949.12           2949.12
25                               206.4        2972.16           2972.16
ERR =   0.195005



Annez 7.6
- 104 -
MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
TOTAL COSTS AND BENEFITS OF 2750 HECTARE PLANTATION AT NULANJE
Net
Yield      Benefits       Costs  net   Benefits
Year      Hectare           '000 m3       '000 MK        '000 NK      '000 NK
1           550                  0              0          1176         -1176
2           550                  0              0           818          -818
3           550                  0              0           811          -811
4           550                  0              0           754          -754
5           550                 33         950.4           1038         -87.6
6                               33         950.4            754         196.4
7                               33         950.4            607         343.4
8                               33         950.4            117         833.4
9                               66        1900.8            117        1783.8
10                              33         950.4            117         833.4
11                              33         950.4            117         833.4
12                              33         950.4            117         833.4
13                              66        1900.8            117        1783.8
14                              33         950.4            117         833.4
15                              33         950.4            117         833.4
16                              33         950.4            117         833.4
17                              66        1900.8            117        1783.8
18                              33         950.4            117         833.4
19                              33         950.4            117         833.4
20                              33         950.4            117         833.4
21                              33         950.4            117         833.4
ERR  =   0.144029



PA                                         MALAWI
.to' e                                ;gar0g    2? gENERGY I PROJECTO.
U   Office
yu   Rivers                                               7        *  Thermal Power
Statlons
o   Towns                                    J                    j  Hydra Power
Dstrlct Ca s                            =       wStations
*   District Capitals   -F_t             jVI                      131 Major Substations
6    National Capital               Rum  I                        *  Hydro Power Stations
(Future investigated)
Region Boundaries                                                Possible Future
International                      kwend                         Hydro Power Statons
Boundaries                                                       Hydr   P      Stations
OM*U                               132 kV O.H.L. Existing
O a . 132 kV O.H.L Planned
-  /  4 W     _ 66 kV O.H.L. Existing
- to'                            Mzimba                                   . . i.m  . 66 kV O.H.L. Planned  ,'
il.  . sv  ;| eF  -      33 kV O.H.L. Existing
ZAMB:IA                                                              - - --- 33kV O.H.L Planned
_..... 11 kVO.H.L.
Maw
* aJ iV             KIRLOMETERS 0  20  40  60  60 100
lKasngu gt       )    |               
cttiian,aT      S                         MILES   0  20    40     60
MaII              *NtchIsIS  
IMeIa    ~     N10
- \  Dowa m
.0
ft                   *  Namwe~~~~~~~~~~~ra
1d -, , ,.4\ 
t ^,h (0.1    WIA                  e                                   Uwonde 
'~~'4S"*4                  0r,                  F t;   :tbg    c/zw.~N 
w^,<  ~KENYA !t                           |-wu   
t  att0.lIe  1,,,1 4Lb . U
ZAgIR i4. 4m.  uow                                     K        Z _e  a
TANZANIA                Chi ~~~~~~~~ZMba                CA/An
ANGO      ,                                              ^t  
J BOT9VA# s /n_ Ie
I  r    \    >  t                        >tSv    oJ |Ns~~~~~~~~~~UMuanja
i   a   AFRICA }  9   t        '                 0KAPIQIIRA 
December 1988



