Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1990 MAI
                        (Energy I Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated August 30, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1990 MAI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 30, 1989, between  REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  The Borrower  intends  to  obtain  from  the Republic of
Austria (Austria) a  loan  (the  Austrian  Loan)  in  an amount of
approximately  two  hundred   thirty-five  million  (S235,000,000)
schillings to assist in  financing  Part  A  of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth  in an agreement (the Austrian Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and Austria;
     (C)  Part A, Part B and Part C of the Project will be carried
out by the Electricity  Supply  Commission  of Malawi (ESCOM) with
the Borrower's assistance  and,  as  part  of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to ESCOM  part of the proceeds of the
Page  2
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and ESCOM;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and ESCOM of even  date  herewith,  as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered  into  between   the   Borrower   and  ESCOM  pursuant  to
Section 3.01 (c) of  this  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time,  and  such  term  includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (c)  "MFNR" means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Forestry and
Natural Resources;
     (d)  "FD" means the Forestry Department within MFNR;
     (e)  "EPU" means the Borrower's Energy Planning Unit;
     (f)  "ESCOM"  means  the  Electricity  Supply  Commission  of
Malawi, established  pursuant  to  the  Electricity  Act  of 1963,
Cap 73:01 of the Laws of Malawi;
     (g)  "Special Account A"  means  the  account  referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (h)  "Special Account B"  means  the  account  referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
     (i)  "Kwacha" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (j)  "tambala" means one hundredth of a Kwacha; and
     (k)  "Project  Preparation   Advances"   means   the  project
preparation advances granted  by  the  Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of  letters,  dated September 30, 1988 and
October 15, 1988, between the Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in  various  currencies equivalent to thirty-
four  million  eight  hundred   thousand  Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 34,800,000).
Page  3
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A, B and C
of the Project, open and maintain  in dollars a special account in
a commercial bank  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall for the purposes  of Parts D, E and F
of the Project open and  maintain  in dollars a special account on
terms and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (d)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of  the   Project   Preparation   Advances  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue:
          (i)  from a  date  sixty  days  after  the  date of this
               Agreement  (the  accrual  date)  to  the respective
               dates on which  amounts  shall  be withdrawn by the
               Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and
         (ii)  at the  rate  set  as  of  the  June 30 immediately
               preceding the accrual date  or  at such other rates
               as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
               to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30
               in each  year  shall  be  applied  as  of  the next
               payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, except  that  the rate set as of
               June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid:
          (i)  at such places as  the Association shall reasonably
               request;
         (ii)  without restrictions of any  kind imposed by, or in
               the territory of, the Borrower; and
        (iii)  in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
               purposes of Section 4.02  of the General Conditions
               or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
               may from time  to  time  be  designated or selected
               pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service  charge  at  the  rate  of  three-fourths  of  one percent
(3/4 of 1%)  per  annum  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Page  4
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable  on  each  April  1  and October 1
commencing  April  1,  1999,  and  ending  October  1,  2028. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on October 1,
2008, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever:
        (i)  the Borrower's gross national  product per capita, as
             determined by  the  Association,  shall have exceeded
             $790   in   constant   1985-dollars   for   five  (5)
             consecutive years; and
       (ii)  the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for
             Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the  United States of America
is hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.02 of the
General Conditions.
     Section 2.09. ESCOM  is  designated  as representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  taking  any  action  required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V  of  the  General Conditions in respect of
Part A, Part B and Part C of the Project.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry  out Parts D, E and F of
the  Project,  through  MFNR  and  EPU,  with  due  diligence  and
efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate administrative,
financial,  forestry  development  and  management  practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations  under  the  Development  Credit  Agreement, the
Borrower shall  cause  ESCOM  to  perform  in  accordance with the
Page  5
provisions of the Project  Agreement  all the obligations of ESCOM
therein set forth, shall take  and  cause  to be taken all action,
including the provision of  funds,  facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or  appropriate  to  enable  ESCOM to perform
such obligations, and shall  not  take  or  permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (c)  The Borrower shall  relend  an  amount not exceeding the
equivalent of  thirty-one  million  nine  hundred thousand dollars
($31,900,000) from the proceeds  of  the  Credit  to ESCOM under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be  entered into between the Borrower
and ESCOM,  under  terms  and  conditions  which  shall  have been
approved by  the  Association  which  shall  include  repayment of
principal over a period  of  twenty  (20)  years including a grace
period of five (5) years, the  payment  of interest at the rate of
7.65% per annum  and  the  foreign  exchange  risk  to be borne by
ESCOM.
     (d)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the Borrower  and  the Association, and to accomplish
the purposes of the  Credit,  and  except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports,  maintenance  and   land  acquisition,  respectively)  in
respect of Part A,  Part  B  and  Part  C  of the Project shall be
carried out by  ESCOM  pursuant  to  Section  2.03  of the Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  shall  furnish to the Association
for its review and  comments,  all  proposals for major reforms of
ESCOM, and shall take  into  consideration the Association's views
prior to implementing any such reform.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, until the completion of the
Project:
     (a)  annually  consult  with  the  Association  and  ESCOM on
ESCOM's investment program; and
     (b) not cause ESCOM  to  undertake  any capital investment in
excess of five  million  dollars  ($5,000,000)  equivalent for any
individual project in  the  power  sub-sector unless the technical
and economic justification of such  project is satisfactory to the
Association.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower  shall take all measures necessary
to conclude, or to  enable  ESCOM  to  conclude, by not later than
December  31,  1989,  appropriate  financing  agreements  for  the
construction by ESCOM of the 132 kV line from Nkula to Lilongwe.
     Section 3.07. (a) EPU  shall  be responsible for coordinating
the implementation of Part D, Part E and Part F of the Project.
     (b)  With  the  assistance   of   consultants,  FD  shall  be
responsible for the implementation  of  Part  D  and Part E of the
Project, and EPU shall implement Part F of the Project.
     (c)  FD  shall  continue  to   maintain  a  coordinator  with
qualifications, experience and terms  of reference satisfactory to
the Association.
Page  6
     Section 3.08. Unless the  Borrower  and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower  shall  take all Governmental action
necessary to make  regular  increases  in  the royalty charged per
cubic  meter  of  wood  cut  from  trees  on  customary  lands for
commercial  purposes,  in  forestry  reserves  and  on  Government
plantations, to ensure that such  royalty shall, by not later than
December 31, 1994, be  equal  to  at  least  the cost, including a
reasonable return on investment,  of wood production by commercial
enterprises, as determined from time  to  time by the Borrower, in
consultation with the Association.
     Section 3.09. In  order  to  encourage  farmers to plant more
trees, the  Borrower  shall  provide  farmers,  who register their
seedlings with FD, an incentive  payment  of five tambala, or such
other amount  as  may  be  agreed  upon  by  the  Borrower and the
Association from time  to  time,  for  each  tree which shall have
survived two years after planting.
     Section 3.10.  Approximately  two  years  after the Effective
Date, or on such later date as  may be agreed upon by the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower  and the Association shall carry
out  a  joint  review  to  determine  the  progress  made  in  the
achievement of the objectives  of  Part  E  of  the Project and to
determine any modifications that may  be necessary to achieve such
objectives.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures, in respect of  Part  D,  Part  E  and  Part F of the
Project,  of  the   departments   or   agencies  of  the  Borrower
responsible for carrying out  Part  D,  Part  E  and Part F of the
Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a)  of  this  Section,  including  those for
               Special Account B for each fiscal year, audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
Page  7
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section, and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  ESCOM shall have failed  to  perform  any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that  ESCOM will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Electricity Act of  1963,  Cap  73:01 of the Laws of
Malawi shall have been  amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to  affect  materially  and  adversely the ability of
ESCOM  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the  Project
Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ESCOM or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Borrower and ESCOM; and
     (b)  the Association has  been  notified  by Austria that all
conditions precedent to the  initial  disbursement of the Austrian
Loan have been fulfilled.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in  the  opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
Page  8
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by ESCOM, and is legally binding upon ESCOM in accordance
with its terms; and
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and ESCOM and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and ESCOM in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section  6.04.  The   obligations   of   the  Borrower  under
Section  3.04   of   this   Agreement   and   the   provisions  of
paragraphs (a) and (b)  of  Section  5.02  of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on  the  date  on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or  on  the  date twenty years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of  Finance  of the Borrower is designated
as representative of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 30049
          Capital City
          Lilongwe 3
          Malawi
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               FINANCE                          44407
               Lilongwe
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                    By /s/ Robert B. Mbaya
Page  9
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Michael Gillette
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:
     (a)  under Part A        10,180,000         100% of foreign
          of the Project                         expenditures
     (b)  under Part E         2,150,000         100%
          of the Project
(2)  Electrical, mech-         7,510,000         100% of foreign
     anical and trans-                           expenditures
     mission equip-
     ment under Part A
     and Part B of the
     Project
(3)  Vehicles, machinery,
     equipment, office
     furniture and mate-
     rials:
     (a)  under Part D            20,000         100% of foreign
          of the Project                         expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (b)  under Part E         1,780,000         100%
          of the Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4)  Office equipment,           260,000         100% of foreign
     including training,                         expenditures
     under Part C.1
     of the Project
(5)  Workshops, studies,         970,000         100%
     training and tech-
     nical assistance
     under Part E of
     the Project
Page  10
(6)  Studies under               190,000         100% of foreign
     Part C.2 of the                             expenditures
     Project
(7)  Incentive                   690,000         100%
     payments and
     seed money
     under Part E
     of the Project
(8)  Operating costs:
     (a)  under Part E         2,210,000         100%
          of the Project
     (b)  under Part D            40,000         100% of foreign
          of the Project                         expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
(9)  Wages for temporary         560,000         100%
     labor under Part E
     of the Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(10) Consultants' services:                      100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (a)  under Part A.3       3,050,000
          of the Project,
          including
          engineering
          training
     (b)  under Part D           110,000
          of the Project
     (c)  under Part F           330,000
          of the Project
(11) Refunding of              1,110,000         Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advances                               2.02 (d) of this
                                                 Agreement
(12) Unallocated               3,640,000
                             ___________
     TOTAL                    34,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
Page  11
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  payments made for expenditures  in respect of Categories
1 (a), 2, 4, 6 and  10  (a),  unless ESCOM has appointed a project
manager for Part A, Part B  and  Part C of the Project pursuant to
Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement; and
     (c)  payments   made   for   expenditures   in   respect   of
Category  10  (c)  unless  the  Borrower  has  filled  the  vacant
positions of principal economist and senior economist for EPU.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective of the  Project  is  to  assist the Borrower to
formulate and implement  an  integrated  program  to make the most
economic use of Malawi's  energy resources through the implementa-
tion of:
     (a)  a least cost power development plan; and
     (b)  a comprehensive  strategy  for  the  management  of wood
          energy   on   a   cost-effective   and   environmentally
          sustainable basis.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Tedzani III Hydroelectric Power Scheme:
1.   Construction of  an  additional  intake  structure at Tedzani
III, a 1052  m  headrace  tunnel  and  surge chamber, a reinforced
concrete box structured power house,  a tailrace outlet system and
installation  of  two  Francis   turbines   coupled  to  two  25MW
generators  and  associated  electromechanical  equipment, switch-
yard, the System Control  and  Data  Acquisition (SCADA) and Power
Line  Carrier  (PLC)  systems   and   construction  of  a  132  kV
transmission link to Nkula B;
2.   construction of a 132/66kV substation at Blantyre West; and
3.   engineering services for  the  design  and supervision of the
power scheme, including engineering training.
Part B:   Generation Rehabilitation:
1.   Improving the reliability of Tedzani I and Tedzani II through
modification of the cooling system.
2.   Acquisition  of  governors,   automatic  voltage  regulators,
spares for  the  existing  hydro,  gas  turbine  and  diesel power
plants.
Part C:  Institution Strengthening of ESCOM:
1.   Enhancing the flow  of  information  from ESCOM's branches to
its  headquarters  and  strengthening  of  its  in-house  planning
capability through the  acquisition  of computers for installation
in ESCOM's branches, including related training.
2.   Carrying  out  of  studies   on  electricity  tariffs,  asset
revaluation and the transmission and distribution systems.
Part D:   Charcoal:
1.   Consultants' services to:
     (a)  advise on and monitor  the  performance and marketing of
Page  12
softwood charcoal production from forest thinnings;
     (b)  advise on commercialization  of  charcoal production and
marketing;
     (c)  advise   potential    industrial   and   agro-industrial
consumers as well as the Government on charcoal utilization; and
     (d)  prepare specifications for  procurement  of vehicles and
equipment for charcoal production and performance monitoring.
2.   Acquisition of vehicles and equipment for charcoal production
and performance.
Part E:   Wood Energy:
1.   Institutional development of the Forestry Department through:
     (a)  establishment of an  improved  system for the management
and protection of the indigenous forest and revenue collection;
     (b)  setting up of a pilot extension scheme in nine districts
with acute fuelwood shortages; and
     (c)  establishment of a Monitoring  and Evaluation Unit and a
Planning Unit in the Forestry  Department and strengthening of the
existing units.
2.   Enhancement of wood production through:
     (a)  promotion  of  tree  planting   by  the  private  sector
including  the  establishment  of  60  retail  nurseries  to  sell
seedlings  to  smallholders  and  estates  and  provision  of tree
planting incentives payments to smallholders; and
     (b)  establishment  of  about  2,800  hectares  of government
fuelwood plantations at Mount Mulanje.
3.   Wood conservation through:
     (a)  initiating the production  and  marketing  of more fuel-
efficient household cooking stoves;
and
     (b)  dissemination  of  research  findings  and  training  of
estate operators  in  techniques  to  reduce  wood  consumption in
tobacco curing.
4.   Support of  the  research  program  of  the Forestry Research
Institute of  Malawi  and  the  training  program  of the Forestry
Department.
Part F:   Energy Pricing Study
     Consultants' services  for  the  carrying  out  of  an energy
pricing  study  covering  liquid  fuels,  woodfuel  and  coal  and
interfuel substitution  possibilities,  particularly  in industry,
households and transport.
                           *   *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
Page  13
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles, equipment,
machinery and materials shall be grouped in bid packages estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  the  Borrower and ESCOM may grant a
margin of preference to  domestic  contractors in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of  paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   (a)  Vehicles, equipment,  machinery  and materials estimated
to cost less than $100,000 up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $500,000,  and  which  cannot  be grouped in bid
packages pursuant to paragraph A.2  above; and (b) civil works for
the expansion of facilities at  Malawi  College of Forestry may be
procured under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Equipment and  spare  parts  for  the  rehabilitation  of the
existing generating plants under Part  B  of the Project which are
proprietary  in  character  and   obtainable  only  from  specific
manufacturers may be procured through negotiated contracts.
3.   Items estimated to cost  less  than the equivalent of $30,000
per contract under  Part  E  of  the  Project,  up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the  equivalent  of $100,000, may be procured
under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  comparison  of price
quotations solicited  from  a  list  of  at  least three suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
4.   Civil works, up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not to exceed the
equivalent of $2,500,000, may  be constructed through negotiations
with:
     (a)  local contractors; or
     (b)  by MFNR or the Borrower's Ministry of Works, using their
own personnel  and  equipment,  with  the  prior  agreement of the
Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
Page  14
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 and
Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 5%  is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower and ESCOM in carrying out the
Project,  FD,  EPU  and   ESCOM  shall  employ  consultants  whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to  the  Association. Such consultants shall
be  selected  in   accordance   with   principles  and  procedures
satisfactory to the Association  on  the  basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of  Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers and by The
World Bank as Executing  Agency"  published  by the Bank in August
1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                         Special Account A
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible  Categories"  means Categories 1 (a),
2, 4, 6, 10 (a) and 10  (b)  set forth in the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Parts A through C of  the  Project  and  to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $1,500,000 to  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received satisfactory evidence that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account  and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
Page  15
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for Eligible
                Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  Eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to the Eligible Categories for  Parts A through C of the
Project, less the  amount  of  any  outstanding special commitment
entered into by the  Association  pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions  with  respect  to  Parts  A  through  C of the
Project, shall equal the  equivalent  of  twice  the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  Eligible
Categories for Parts A through C  of the Project shall follow such
procedures as  the  Association  shall  specify  by  notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of thedate of  such  
notice  will  be  utilized  in  making payments for
Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:
          (i)  was made for  an  expenditure  or  in an amount not
               eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
         (ii)  was not justified by  the evidence furnished to the
               Association,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon
               notice from the Association:
               (A)  provide  such   additional   evidence  as  the
                    Association may request; or
               (B)  deposit into the  Special  Account (or, if the
                    Association shall  so  request,  refund to the
                    Association) an amount equal  to the amount of
                    such payment  or  the  portion  thereof not so
                    eligible or justified.  Unless the Association
                    shall otherwise agree,  no  further deposit by
Page  16
                    the Association into the Special Account shall
                    be made until  the  Borrower has provided such
                    evidence or made  such  deposit  or refund, as
                    the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds   to   the    Association   made   pursuant   to
paragraphs 6 (a),  6  (b)  and  6  (c)  of  this Schedule shall be
credited  to  the  Credit  Account  for  subsequent  withdrawal or
cancellation, in accordance with  the  relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Account B
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible  Categories"  means Categories 1 (b),
3, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 10 (c)  set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Parts D and  E  of  the  Project  and  to  be  financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to  be  withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received satisfactory evidence that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request, the
Page  17
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for Eligible
                Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  Eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to the Eligible  Categories  for  Parts  D  and E of the
Project, less the  amount  of  any  outstanding special commitment
entered into by the  Association  pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to  Parts  D and E of the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of  twice  the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  Eligible
Categories for Parts D  and  E  of  the  Project shall follow such
procedures as  the  Association  shall  specify  by  notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making payments for
Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:
          (i)  was made for  an  expenditure  or  in an amount not
               eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
         (ii)  was not justified by  the evidence furnished to the
               Association,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon
               notice from the Association:
               (A)  provide  such   additional   evidence  as  the
                    Association may request; or
               (B)  deposit into the  Special  Account (or, if the
                    Association shall  so  request,  refund to the
                    Association) an amount equal  to the amount of
                    such payment  or  the  portion  thereof not so
                    eligible or justified.  Unless the Association
                    shall otherwise agree,  no  further deposit by
                    the Association into the Special Account shall
                    be made until  the  Borrower has provided such
                    evidence or made  such  deposit  or refund, as
                    the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
Page  18
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds   to   the    Association   made   pursuant   to
paragraphs 6 (a),  6  (b)  and  6  (c)  of  this Schedule shall be
credited  to  the  Credit  Account  for  subsequent  withdrawal or
cancellation, in accordance with  the  relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
