                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 25709


                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (PPFB-P2720; CPL-38850)

                                            ON A

                                            LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$329 MILLION

                                           TO THE

                                    RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                           FOR AN

                                URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT




                                          6/30/2003




Infrastructure and Energy Services Department
Russia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective March 1995)

                          Currency Unit = Ruble (Rb)
                                   1 Rb = US$ 0.20
                                  US$ 1 = 5 Rb

                                FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1    December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CIS            -    Commonwealth of Independent States
CPPR           -    Country Portfolio Performance Review
CUPTR          -    Center for Urban Public Transport Reform
ECA            -    Europe and Central Asia
ERR            -    Economic Rate-of-Return
FSU            -    Former Soviet Union
MoF            -    Ministry of Finance
MoT            -    Ministry of Transport
OED            -    Operations Evaluation Department (IBRD)
PID            -    Project Implementation Directorate
TRANSINVEST    -    Russian name for the PID
UPT            -    Urban Public (Passenger) Transport
UTPCC          -    Urban Transport Project Coordinating Council




                         Vice President:   Johannes Linn, ECAVP
                      Country Director:    Julian Schweitzer, ECCU1
                        Sector Director:   Hossein Razavi, ECSIE
              Transport Sector Manager:     Eva Molnar, ECSIE
                    Task Team Leader:      Ben Eijbergen, ECSIE

                                 RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                   URBAN TRANSPORT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                      Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                            1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                           1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  10
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    18
6. Sustainability                                                                        21
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         22
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       26
9. Partner Comments                                                                      28
10. Additional Information                                                               30
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     31
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    39
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                      40
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                    48
Annex 10. Selected Operational and Financial Statistics of Public Transport Companies    51
Annex 11. A Summary of All-Russian Open Reform Program for Urban Public Transport        54
Annex 12. Letter from Mr. A.V. Kolik, Deputy Minister of Transport                       60

Project ID: P008806                                                      Project Name: URBAN TRANSPORT
Team Leader: Ben L. J. Eijbergen                                         TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                          Report Date: June 30, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: URBAN TRANSPORT                                          L/C/TF Number: PPFB-P2720; CPL-38850
   Country/Department: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                 Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General transportation sector (97%); Central government
                            administration (2%); Sub-national government administration (1%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    08/01/1992                                        Effective: 09/30/1995              03/28/1996
   Appraisal:    05/13/1994                                            MTR: 11/30/1996
    Approval:    05/16/1995                                         Closing: 06/30/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          RUSSIAN FEDERATION/MINISTRY OF TRANSPOR
                      Other Partners:      Assistance in funding project preparation was provided by the Government of
                                           Netherlands (US$ 0.6m) and the US Trade Development Administration (US$
                                           0.4m).

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Johannes Linn                                  Wilfred Thalwitz
Country Director:               Julian F. Schweitzer                           Russell Cheetham
Sector Manager:                 Eva Molnar                                     Jonathan Brown
Team Leader at ICR:             Ben Eijbergen                                  Jane E.M. Holt
ICR Primary Author:             Slobodan Mitric


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The origins of this Project lie in 1992, in the period of an acute crisis in the life of the Russian Federation,
which had just emerged from the ruins of the Soviet Union, and also just had joined the World Bank. The
period was marked by a severe recession and high inflation stemming from a concurrent weakening and
abandonment of all major political and economic pillars of the Soviet society, as well as the industrial and
trade arrangements between the socialist states. In cities, the past meant universal employment, with low
wages complemented by low-priced daily essentials, like food, housing, education, health, energy, transport
and other communal services. The state, directly or through local industrial enterprises, was making up the
difference between the symbolic revenue from user charges and the costs of infrastructure and service
provision. Suddenly, through the twin actions of recession and decentralization, the state both lost the
capacity to subsidize cities and shed the responsibility for doing so, passing it to its constituent states
(oblasts) and city governments. These sub-national governments had even less financial capacity, and
nowhere to turn to, since the local enterprises were in turmoil and the citizenry was under price pressures
from all sides, while facing a collapse in real wages. In the municipal services sector, the result manifested
itself in a snowballing operating deficit of service providers, which progressively corroded the quantity and
quality of service, discipline of user payments and bill collection, and efficiency of operations, then led to
arrears and asset stripping.

Since the urban public transport mode, carrying 80-90% of non-walk trips, was the work horse of the
urban passenger market, this crisis meant a crisis in the urban life and economy. The car ownership at 60
vehicles per 1,000 population was in the short-to-medium term insignificant as a substitute, and so was
walking due to the harsh winter climate and unusually long travel distances. The latter were a by-product of
the land use patterns favored by socialist city planners, featuring high-rise residences at city perimeters,
with minimal services and far from employment centers. Throughout Russia, bus- and trolley-bus based
urban public transport enterprises experienced great difficulties in continuing their services. Cost recovery
was exceptionally low, in the 5-15% range, and based on operating costs only. The real cost recovery, after
including depreciation and correcting for the artificially low price of energy, was much lower. On the
revenue side, the low take was not due only or even primarily to low fares, but to deep fare discounts and
exemptions enjoyed by 10-50% of passengers (depending on the city). Many passengers traveled without
paying tickets, a problem typical of countries where the social contract had broken down and difficult to
overcome in the conditions of extreme crowding. The financial collapse exacerbated the inherited problems
of obsolete technology, overstaffing and the plethora of non-transport activities set up as internal
departments. Bus vehicles were known for their short lives, high fuel consumption, high emissions and
frequent breakdowns. All these added to inefficient operations and maintenance on the cost side, as well as
poor services and air pollution. Urban public transport services in the largest cities, like Moscow and St.
Petersburg, were in a comparatively privileged position linked to the economic and political power of their
municipal governments. Owing to the technological imperatives of rail-based systems, metros and to a
lesser degrees tramway networks, always located in larger cities, received comparatively more support than
bus-based networks. The crisis hit full-force in the constellation of medium-size and larger cities in Russia
(about 180 with population above 100,000). Overall, the financial losses in this sector alone were estimated
to be about 6% of the GDP in 1993.

By the time this Project was being appraised, Russia's urban bus fleet was 60% operational, and vehicle
breakdowns in services were as high as 30%, with adverse downstream impacts on waiting times,
overcrowding and the willingness to pay. The vehicle and parts supply industry was in disarray. Dealing
with the dominant bus manufacturer from the Soviet era (Ikarus, Hungary) now required foreign currency,
and the domestic industry was not in a position to fill the gap even if the funding problem were resolved.


                                                      - 2 -

The Project was conceived to address jointly the problems on both demand (service) and supply (service
provision) sides in cities, the national-scale problems in the supply of buses and spare parts, and the
problems of organization and regulation of public transport services in cities and nationally. The objectives,
as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (p. 47), in the opening paragraph of the Schedule 2 of the Loan
Agreement, and repeated in all Project Status Reports, were to:

        "1.     preserve essential urban transport capacity in fourteen cities by linking financing of urgently
                needed replacement vehicles and spare parts to the implementation of reforms;
         2.     strengthen the fourteen project cities' urban transport sector institutions so as to improve the
                efficiency of passenger transport operations;
         3.     arrest the decline in urban transport services throughout Russia through the provision of
                urgently needed spare parts for transport vehicles; and
         4.     provide restructuring advice for the domestic bus industry."

This formal statement of objectives does not fully match either the text of the Loan Agreement, specifically
the full text of Schedule 2 (Description of the Project), Schedule 5 (Implementation Program), Schedule 7
(Principal Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements), or the full text and annexes of the Staff
Appraisal Report. The first objective is really two objectives, one having to do with the short-term capacity
to supply services and its "enabling" factor - vehicle fleet, the other referring to the pivotal reform with
long-term consequences - a specific increase in cost recovery from fares. Judging from the fact that the
only dated covenant with numerical targets in this Loan Agreement deals with the level of cost recovery
implies that this policy objective has the highest priority. The second objective is vague, the intent
becoming clearer only upon close reading of Schedule 7 and the agreed institutional and policy changes
listed therein, e.g. the signing of service contracts and the opening towards the private sector. The third and
fourth objectives are of a very different nature, in that the objective and the instrument are one and the
same. Finally, there are Project objectives which are implied but not stated. One of these has to do with
introducing international competitive bidding in the procurement of new vehicles and vehicle rehabilitation,
based on detailed specification - nothing short of a revolutionary change relative to the inherited method of
procurement. Another important objective, not stated up-front but evident in the Loan Agreement (items #2
and #3 in Schedule 2), involves a national reform in urban passenger transport regulation. Based on a close
reading of all project documents, the objectives have been re-stated for the purpose of this Completion
Report and re-grouped as follows:

1.     Main Objectives for the Client Cities:

       (a)   Preserve essential urban transport capacity in 14 cities. The instruments for reaching this
             important objective were investments in new vehicles, vehicle rehabilitation, spare parts and
             workshop equipment, with fleet availability for service as an indicator of success, once the
             investments were implemented.

       (b)   Shift the onus of financing public transport operations from the public budget to
             passengers. The practical form of this objective, was to increase the recovery of direct
             operating costs from fare revenues to at least 35% by end-December 1995 , and at least 40%
             by end-March 1996 (keeping in mind that the Loan was negotiated in March 1995). The Bank
             wanted to include yet another milestone target in the Loan Agreement, 50% by the end of
             1997, but this was not agreed to by the participating cities. Though not stated, increases in cost
             recovery were to be achieved by actions on the fare side: fare increases, reduction/elimination
             of exemptions, and reducing fare evasion. Strictly speaking, reducing operating costs through


                                                       - 3 -

            greater production efficiency would also have contributed to an increase in cost recovery, but
            under the prevailing circumstances this could not be expected and was not sought by the
            Project.

2.    Other Reform Objectives in Client Cities:

      (a)   Reform the status of public-sector operators and their relation with municipal authorities.
            The instruments for reaching this objective included: (a) the adoption of an action plan to
            introduce contractual arrangements between cities and their transport companies, involving a
            covenant with a target date of June 1996; and (b) the divestiture of urban bus operations from
            inter-city bus operations, also involving a covenant dated end-December 1995.

     (b)    Improve operations, maintenance and planning activities of the client companies. The
            instruments to achieve this objective included: (c) technical assistance for accounting,
            budgeting, fare making, and vehicle maintenance; and (d) studies, to be carried out by end-June
            1997, of financial and economic studies of each city's (public) transport system "to determine
            the least cost mode and the least cost type of vehicle within each mode" (also a dated
            covenant). The achievement of these reforms was expected to produce benefits in terms of
            operational efficiencies in public transport services and reduce the level of subsidies. These,
            however, were not codified as "contractual" objectives with corresponding quantitative targets.

     (c)    Involve the private sector in the provision of urban passenger transport operations and
            auxiliary services for public-sector transport operators. This took the form of: (i) a
            non-dated covenant asking the client cities to take "all the necessary measures to support the
            provision of transport services by private individuals or companies, to encourage wider
            provision;" (ii) technical assistance to cities regarding the regulation, financing and
            privatization of public transport services; and (iii) a dated covenant involving the preparation
            (by September 1996) of plans to enter into contractual arrangements for the provision of
            transport services and auxiliary (non-transport) services with entities different from municipal
            transport companies.

3.    Arrest the Decline in Urban Transport Services in Russia (beyond the 14 client cities). This was
to be done principally through the provision of urgently needed spare parts for transport vehicles; and

4.    Provide Restructuring Advice to the Domestic Bus Industry. This was to be done through
technical assistance for market assessment, strategy development and dissemination.

5.    Objectives Not Explicitly Stated:

      (a)   Assist the Ministry of Transport in preparing an overall strategy for urban passenger
            transport sector and its dissemination. This was included in the project description, to be
            achieved through a series of study tours, seminars, a new sector information system, and
            studies.

      (b)   Reform the vehicle procurement process. This was to be achieved by developing
            specifications for new vehicles and for vehicle rehabilitation, and model bid documents for
            each, in a sharp departure from practices inherited from the command-and-control era.




                                                    - 4 -

The client cities and their populations were as follows: Cherepovets (318,000), Kostroma (281,000),
Nizhniy Novgorod (1,368,000), Novgorod (265,000), Omsk (1,159,000), Pskov (204,000), Rostov-on-Don
(1,020,000), Samara (1,160,000), Saransk (318,000), Smolensk (352,000), Tver (457,000), Velikie Luki
(118,000), Vologda (303,000) and Yekaterinburg (1,420,000). This group represents about 10% of all
Russian cities bigger than 100,000 population, and includes 5 cities over 1 million inhabitants out of a total
of 13 such cities. The list of cities was formed through an unusual self-selection process, in that cities
qualified for appraisal if: (i) local public transport operators were transformed into legally autonomous,
corporate entities in city (as opposed to regional government) ownership; (ii) local operators achieved a
25% cost recovery target by end-July 1994, from a starting level of about 10-15%; and (iii) cities set up
transport departments to regulate and plan urban transport systems. These conditions were met by 15
cities, but one city dropped out at negotiations, unwilling to accept further increases in cost recovery (to
40%).

3.2 Revised Objective:

There were no formal revisions of objectives, but there were three major changes in the design of the
Project, which had repercussions for project objectives.

First, the entire National Spare Parts program was cancelled (see Section 3.3. below), which in effect
meant dropping the objective #3, assistance to public transport companies in cities throughout Russia.

Second, following the financial crisis in 1998-99, the Project was restructured in 2000. Six cities were
dropped from the Project because of creditworthiness problems. It was felt at that time that the Project had
reached its original objectives and that the developments in Russian cities indicated that higher-level
regulatory objectives should be sought. The subsequent phase of the Project focused on developing a
national reform program in urban passenger transport, in effect pursuing the objective #5(a).

Third, reflecting a growing interest of the Transport and Finance ministries to extend the scope of reforms
to national roads and railways, the Government requested in 2002 that the Loan Agreement be amended to
permit the Technical Assistance Component to include the wider subject of public expenditures
management in the transport sector. The Bank agreed (in February 2002) to amend the project description,
adding two studies of public expenditures, one for national roads and the other for Russian Railways. This
in effect meant adding a new objective (though the SAR already included a general statement on supporting
transport policy formulation and overall reforms in the sector). Once the studies were contracted in June
2002, the Loan Closing Date was extended to December 31, 2002 to coincide with the study period. The
roads study aimed to assess the expenditure needed for current and capital budgets in the 2003-2007, and,
after assessing alternatives, propose new approaches to road administration, procurement and funding. The
study for the Russian Railways was limited to two subjects only: (i) the fare, exemptions and subsidy
policy for passenger services; and (ii) methods to achieve financial transparency of the railway company.

3.3 Original Components:

The Project originally included five components:

1.     The Purchase of New Public Transport Vehicles (US$278.3 million): this component consisted of
3 sub-components: (i) the purchase of about 1,500 diesel-fuel buses, of which 850 standard-size and 650
articulated vehicles, at an estimated cost of US$241.6 million; (ii) the purchase of 272 trolley-buses, at an
estimated cost of US$ 35.2 million; and (iii) the purchase of 10 natural gas fueled buses for a pilot
operation in Moscow (US$1.5 million). It was agreed that the 14 participating cities would purchase an



                                                     - 5 -

additional 653 buses and 237 trolley-buses using US$53 million of own funds. This component is an
aggregate of new acquisitions recommended in the1995-97 investment plans for public transport in each
city, prepared by consultants financed from the Dutch Trust Fund as a part of project preparation
activities. In all, the loan would finance 81% of all acquisitions, and local funds would be used for the
remaining 19%, mainly for domestically produced and/or assembled vehicles, and for second hand
purchases.

2.    Vehicle Rehabilitation (US$40.9 million): this component would repair and otherwise rehabilitate
997 buses,327 trolley-buses, and 380 tram vehicles, to be carried out in-house or by direct contract.

3.    Equipment (US$8.9 million): this component included equipment for public transport workshops,
fare collection and other operations, maintenance and management departments of public transport
companies, and some office equipment.

4.    Technical Assistance and Training (US$12.9 million): about 800 staff months of technical
assistance, of which 380 foreign and 420 national. This would be divided into 2 sub-components: (i)
technical assistance to the Project Implementation Unit, cities, and the participating transport companies
(US$8.3 million) for project implementation and administration, implementation of the vehicle
rehabilitation program, and implementation of the agreed reform and performance improvement programs;
and (ii) assistance to the Ministry of Transport for: (a) the development of an overall strategy for urban
transport services, (b) its application to all cities, and (c) the development of a policy for transforming the
domestic vehicle manufacturing industry.

5.    National Spare Parts Program (US$50 million): spare parts for buses, trolley-buses and trams
needed to re-activate idled vehicles or those in use but subject to frequent breakdowns. This component was
meant to continue the initiative started under the Russia - Rehabilitation Project (Ln 3513-RU), replacing
the parts component of the canceled Second Rehabilitation Project. The arrangement was that the Ministry
of Transport would on-lend to Avtosnabsbyt, a privatized parts distribution company, which would make
bulk purchases of parts then sell them to transport enterprises at an agreed mark-up.

The Loan was structured having the Russian Federation as the Borrower. Each of the client cities would
sign a subsidiary loan agreement with the Federation (through the Ministry of Finance), which would cover
both the investment and reform aspects of the Project. Subsidiary loan agreements would be guaranteed by
the regional (oblast) governments, but the cities were to take the foreign exchange risk. The terms included
a 200 basis point surcharge, a 5-year grace period and a 15-year repayment period.

A central Project Implementation Directorate (PID) was set up in the Ministry of Transport through which
both the city and national components of the Project would be implemented. It was agreed that the PID
would handle all procurement, all financial transactions between the loan accounts and the suppliers of
goods and services, the entire project administration, and all relations with the Bank. In turn, each city
would appoint a Project Manager responsible for local activities and for relations with the PID.

In order to guide, assist and oversee the implementation of policy reforms underlying the above cited
objectives, be they at the national level or in the client cities, an Urban Transport Coordinating Council
(UTCC) was set up in the Ministry of Transport. Each of the 14 cities were to nominate their
representatives to the UTCC.


3.4 Revised Components:



                                                        - 6 -

There were four significant revisions of Project components. The first involved a cancellation of the
National Spare Parts Component, agreed to in 1996, but made legally effective only in March 1998. At
negotiations, it had been agreed to procure the Spare Parts component in two lots, allowing for the
possibility that the purchase costs of new buses would be higher than estimated, in which case the second
lot would be cancelled and the corresponding amount used to augment funding for the new bus component.
It transpired that even the first lot did not get tendered, because the Government and Avtosnabsbyt could
not agree on the on-lending rate. In the meanwhile, the commercial spare parts market had developed
enough to make institutions like Avtosnabsbyt superfluous. The Bank therefore agreed to the proposed
change. The $50 million loan item earmarked for that component was re-allocated, one half for new buses
and the other for vehicle rehabilitation. In addition, the Bank accepted to finance transport and insurance
for new vehicles purchased under the Project.

The second revision involved the cancellation of the pilot purchase of buses fueled by natural gas. This
component had been held back during the first phase of the Project (1996-98) to focus on the procurement
of major components - new bus and trolley-bus vehicles, and vehicle rehabilitation. After the crisis of
1998-99, in the course of developing a revised procurement plan for the cities remaining in the Project, the
subject of gas-fueled buses came up for re-consideration. The results of market research by the PIU and an
actual experience with tendering gas-fueled buses under a Bank-financed project in Turkmenistan revealed
that such a small batch of such buses would have unit prices well above US$200,000 (compare to
US$130,000 for diesel-fueled buses purchased under the Project). This was entirely out of bounds for the
participating operators, since even the cities remaining in the project were under a persistent financial
squeeze. All sides therefore agreed to drop this component.

The third revision involved a sharp drop in the number of cities participating in the Project. Following the
Russian financial crisis in 1998, there was a 75% drop in the exchange rate of the ruble relative to the US
dollar (see section 5.1). The client cities experienced severe difficulties in meeting sub-loan repayment
obligations, and in fact stopped payments to the Federation. When the dust settled down and the process of
recovery began, cities were given some time to sort out their finances. By July 2000, it was determined that
the following 5 cities were unable or unwilling to repay their loans: Kostroma, Omsk, Rostov on Don,
Saransk and Yekatarinburg. In October 2000, Samara also dropped from the Project. It is noteworthy that
all but one of the cities above one million population dropped out. Both new contracts and loan
disbursements for active contracts in these cities were stopped, but the cities continued to make payments
from own funds due under the existing contracts, through Transinvest. Accordingly, US$55 million was
cancelled from the Loan in 2000, and US$22.6 million was cancelled in 2001. As all the procurement under
the investment part of the Project was completed in 2002, another US$2.6 million was cancelled, leaving
just the funds to complete the program of technical assistance and studies.

The fourth revision involved the addition of two new items in the Technical Assistance Component, already
cited above - studies of public expenditures for the Russian Railways and for the national road network.
These, together with the Urban Passenger Transport Reform Study, formed a coherent basis for the next
stage of the reform process in the Russian transport sector.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The Project was a timely and relevant response to acute transport problems in Russian cities. Russia being
a new member of the World Bank, the knowledge of the sector had not been available. The team did a
formidable job of a detailed field diagnosis and strategy development, making the introductory chapters of
the Staff Appraisal Report into a sector study. The main objectives of the Project were well chosen and



                                                      - 7 -

well matched with investments, in that they combined a provision of short-term relief to urban residents and
economic activities (to be achieved through investments), with policy changes meant to resolve the
underlying structural problems of the sector. The hierarchy of objectives, implicit in their use as appraisal
and effectiveness conditions, as well as the form in which they were specified in the Loan Agreement (as
dated covenants), reflected a good judgment of what was the pivotal and most urgent change needed, i.e.
increased cost recovery from fares. The successful use of self-selection mechanism for cities, based on
upfront meeting of cost recovery and sub-loan conditions, was unique in ECA's urban transport lending
operations. It was an explicit sign of client ownership of the reform, and meant that the progress on the key
policy objectives started well ahead of project approval. This approach should be widely emulated in future
projects.

The preparatory work for the Project was very well advanced at entry, based on the team's success in
mobilizing external grant funding for the massive and unprecedented field work in all 14 cities, to study
each client company, evaluate investments, and establish the creditworthiness of client cities. Besides, an
exemplary amount of direct technical assistance was provided by the Bank to the Project Implementation
Directorate in drafting technical specifications for new buses and trolleybuses, which accounted for a lion's
share of the proposed investment program. The work on vehicle specifications, as well as subsequent
specifications for vehicle rehabilitation, was of pioneering nature, given that Russia was breaking with a
50-year tradition in procurement highly constrained in both the types of vehicle and the pool of suppliers.

The financial analysis of city governments and their public transport companies was done as well as could
be expected under the chaotic circumstances still prevalent in 1994-95, including poor quality of accounts
and unsettled financial relations between city, regional and the federal levels of government, as well as
between cities and their transport companies. The same is true of economic analyses. The team used an
acceptable decision framework but, given the lacunae in reliable data on operating and maintenance costs,
passenger volumes and price elasticities, not to mention reliable forecasts, had to make numerous
assumptions. The specific results in terms of economic rates of return (a range of 10-100% depending on
the city and the type of investment) therefore do not have much value other than to indicate a large margin
for possible errors. The upper ranges of the rate-of-return simply reflect the despondent nature of
do-nothing alternatives for some of the operators. Quite correctly, deciding on the number of vehicles to be
purchased for individual cities was based on multiple criteria, mixing technical, financial and economic
aspects.

Since fare increases featured so prominently in the initiative to raise the cost recovery of public transport
companies, the team carried out affordability and wage trend analyses for households. The focus of these
analyses, however, was on households at average incomes. There was no attempt to look at the impact on
poor families, because "a system is currently in place to exempt these individuals from paying for
transport" (cf. Staff Appraisal Report, para.3.36).

The implementation arrangement, using a Moscow-based Project Implementation Directorate as an
intermediary between the Ministry of Transport, the client cities and the Bank for all matters related to the
implementation of investments and technical assistance activities, was really the only practicable one given
the number of cities. The same holds for the setting up of an Urban Transport Project Coordinating Council
in the MoT, to oversee and coordinate the policy aspects of the Project.

The design of the Project could have been improved in several aspects. First, the above-cited praise for an
apt selection of objectives and their linkage with investment components applies only to the main
objectives. The other objectives as stated were vague, and not well linked to legal covenants and monitoring
indicators. Some weak covenants implied objectives not specifically included on the formal list, e.g. those



                                                     - 8 -

involving service contracts and private sector involvement. Yet other objectives, for example those related
to national policy development for urban passenger transport services, were implied in the project
description but were omitted in the formal statement of objectives.

Second, the aggregate scope of objectives, stated and implied, was very ambitious. If all the cited initiatives
were carried out, this project would have achieved the entire reform in public transport services in the client
cities in one fell swoop, which was unlikely.

Third, all covenanted reforms were to be implemented by cities and none by the State, which had not been
tried before. Although a city may introduce major regulatory changes on a pilot basis, subject to agreement
by the national government, it was not likely that the 14 cities could do this without a prior introduction of
systemic legislation even under the conditions then prevalent in Russia. Having at least some of the reforms
done centrally would have permitted a closer involvement of the Bank with their design and
implementation, and made the task of the PID more bearable.

Fourth, complementing the preceding comment, the client cities and companies had a large agenda of things
to achieve under the Project, e.g. changing the status of companies; improving their operations, budgeting,
and accounting; preparing for the arrival, use and maintenance of the new vehicles; choosing the optimal
public transport vehicle of the future; setting new fares and fare policies; introducing a new regulatory
system for public transport services; and signing up public transport operators. In short, it was an almost
identical agenda used under Bank-financed projects which had a single transport operator and a single city
as a client/beneficiary, e.g. as in Budapest Urban Transport Project. For any one city, this agenda would be
a challenge, as it was in Budapest, and would require a close involvement by the Bank. For the Bank to be
involved intimately, or even just supervise these activities in 14 cities was overly ambitious, even under the
best performance and good will. Even having the centrally located Project Implementation Directorate
work with cities on the reform design and implementation would have been too ambitious. A better design
would have been to limit the city-based reforms to a bare and essential minimum, and (as suggested above)
focus on the national-level reforms with just one Ministry to visit.

The criticism in the preceding four categories deals with complex matters. A key member of the preparation
team defends both the focus on cities as torch-carriers of reforms and the extent of objectives (please see
comments from Richard Podolske dated January 17, 2003 in project files). The first is based on the
observation that the Duma (Russian Parliament) of the time was dominated by conservative deputies, and
would not have allowed reforms. The evidence is the issue of federally mandated fare exemptions, yet to be
resolved as of this writing. (A draft law "On replacement of Social Exemptions" was announced by the
Ministry of Transport with hopes that it would be passed by the State Duma in 2001. Approximately 38
million Russians receive partial or complete exemptions through 64 Federally mandated categories at an
annual estimated cost of 64 billion Rubles -- about US$2 billion equivalent. This law has not been passed
and there is little chance of passage during 2003 which is an election year). The will to change was stronger
in cities, as demonstrated by their willingness to increase cost recovery from fares. The second aspect
(extent of objectives) is defended by the need to cover all the essential aspects of public transport regulation
and operation, even if this exceeded the grasp of supervision. The attempt to balance the desire to be
comprehensive, the realism of the undertaking, and the Bank's (current) insistence on a tight linkage
between objectives, instruments, measures of performance, and steady monitoring of progress, is evident.

Fifth, setting reasonably high cost recovery from fares for client companies was a necessary but insufficient
measure to achieve sustainability. Total cost recovery is conditio sine qua non of healthy finance and
efficient operation. Since raising fares and reducing costs to get into a profit making situation was entirely
unlikely, the persistence of operating and capital subsides was inevitable. The key to sustainability was for



                                                     - 9 -

the Loan Agreement to insist that these subsidies be paid by the city or the region, to achieve an operating
ratio of 100 (getting into more meaningful targets related to the balance sheet was not realistic in the
Russian circumstances). This is said in full recognition that cities probably were not in a position to make
full payments of subsidies, but this does not take away from the necessity for a break-even target set as a
covenant in the Loan Agreement. The risk section of the Staff Appraisal Report discusses the possibility
that cost recovery targets of 40-50% would not be met, or would not be sufficient, but relies only on the
weak condition for cities and operators to sign service contracts guaranteeing the payment of subsidies
"based on performance standards." The Loan Agreement, in item 5, Schedule 7, in citing the obligations
under such contracts does not mention the obligation of cities to pay subsidies in fair amounts and on time.

Sixth, the poverty analyses done for the Project were limited to a statement about there being a system of
subsidies in place to exempt poor travelers from paying for public transport. If a similar project were
undertaken in the future, the notion of norms for affordability "ceilings" of public transport would have to
be replaced by an all-inclusive household expenditure analysis, to reflect a simultaneous impact of price
increases in all expenditure categories.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The Project had three distinct phases, with changing emphases on different objectives and outputs. The first
phase was from the date of loan approval and effectiveness (1995-96) to the Russian fiscal crisis and its
immediate aftermath (1998-99). The second was from the financial crisis to project restructuring in 2000.
The third was from 2000 to the closing of the Loan in December 2002. In the first phase, the attention of
both the Borrower and the Bank was focused on the twin concerns of procurement of equipment and cost
recovery of the beneficiary enterprises, corresponding to the two key objectives of the Project. Of the total
disbursements of US$249 million, US$228 million (nearly 92%) was disbursed already by November
1998. Due to problems that the client cities encountered in making sub-loan payments, the Project and the
loan disbursements were suspended from March 1999 for about a year (see Section 5.1). All on-going
technical assistance contracts were stopped. The Project was restructured in a process lasting through
September 2000. Only residual procurement (for vehicle rehabilitation and equipment for 8 cities) remained
in the project. Accordingly, the Loan was reduced by a large amount, first by US$25 million in July 1999,
then by US$30 million in July 2000 and finally by US$22.6 million in May 2001. The third phase, from
2000 to completion, was dominated by efforts to assist in the birth of a new national policy for this sector
and did not have much to do with the client cities.

1.    Achievements of the Main Objectives for the Client Cities:

(a)   Preserve essential urban transport capacity in 14 cities. This was the main objective of the Project
on the investment side. The physical output was much as planned, except for the purchases of new
trolley-bus vehicles (see Section 4.2 below). In turn, new and rehabilitated vehicles made it possible for
most client cities to maintain and increase the frequency of service and attract more passengers than would
have been possible without the Project. The Borrower's Completion report states that, for all cities taken
together, the first-quarter data for 2000 showed a 26% increase in passengers relative to the same quarter
in 1997; the trolley-bus services recorded a 24% increase, and tram-based services remained at about the
same level.

A survey of the client cities, done for the purpose of this report, uniformly express satisfaction with the



                                                    - 10 -

investments made under the Project. Those who had to leave the Project due to the 1998 crisis express
regret with this turn of events.

How the cities actually managed their own fleets and their overall passenger transport system is difficult to
gage. The available data are far from permitting the estimation of the service capacity in the "with project"
and "without project" scenarios. The case rests on "before" and "after" data on fleets, service frequencies
and passengers carried, but there were factors in play other than project-based procurement. Data shown in
Annex 10 show much variablity between the client cities. By and large, the medium-size and smaller client
cities have preserved or increased their capacity, if measured by the fleet in service of public-owned
operators. In the biggest client cities (Omsk, Rostov-on-Don, Samara and Yekaterinburg), who also
received the largest share of the Loan proceeds, the supply of services by public-owned operators actually
went down over the 1995-2001 period. This was due to a joint impact of two factors: the ascendance of
private operators and the scale of retiring over-age vehicles. Rostov-on-Don is a striking example of this: it
bought 169 new buses and rehabilitated another 126 buses, 43 trolley-buses and 26 trams, but its
public-owned fleet in operation went from 774 in 1996 down to 474 in 2001. The private operators in
Rostov now provide about 50% of the supply, running 583 diverse bus vehicles. The total supply, in
passenger places, has increased by as much as 25%. In other words, the purchases made under the Project
plus the regulatory reform combined in major cities to increase the supply of services. Additional data on
private operators are cited in para. 2(c) below.

(b)    Shift the onus of financing public transport operations from the public budget to passengers.
The main objective on the policy side, to increase cost recovery from fare revenues, was fully reached. The
data for the last full year available (2001) show the following results by city, with CR denoting the cost
recovery, OR is the operating ratio, and a star symbol is used to mark cities which remained in the Project
to its completion. Annual data for each city, and the definitions of both CR and OR are shown in Tables 6
and 7, Annex 10. It is noted that the accounting practices of public transport companies leave much to be
desired, and the picture emerging from the numbers shown below should be treated with caution.

                                  City                      CR      OR
                                  Cherepovets*              74%     123%
                                  Tver*                     59%     106%
                                  Smolensk*                 84%     100%
                                  Saransk                   49%      97%
                                  Samara                    70%     104%
                                  Rostov-on-Don             73%     102%
                                  Pskov*                    105% 102%
                                  Omsk                      83%     109%
                                  Novgorod*                 95%     108%
                                  Nizhny Novgorod*          71%     110%
                                  Kostroma                  69%     125%
                                  Ekaterinburg              82%      99%
                                  Vologda*                  99%      97%
                                  Velikie Luki*             93%       n.a.


Of the 14 client cities, 11 met the contractual target of having fare revenues covering at least 40% of direct
operating costs by end-March 1996, and all but one exceeded 50% in 1998. In the subsequent years, 13
cities went well beyond the 50% level, and several exceeded the 100% level. It is noteworthy that passenger
resistance to fare increases has not come up as an important factor in cities. The results would have been


                                                     - 11 -

even higher had it not been for the leakage of paying passengers to the private sector. This meant that
public-owned operators were left to carry a disproportional number of passengers with discounts and
exemptions.

Though breaking-even was not an objective under the Project, it is of much interest to know whether the
operating account of the beneficiary public transport companies is in balance. The OR column above
shows that the sum of business revenues and subsidies equaled or exceeded total operating costs in four
client cities, and came close to this in three more. Half the cities had substantial shortfalls. The situation
should be worse for cities with metros and other modes with exclusive infrastructure. Still, it is encouraging
that half the cities in this sample came close to eliminating the shortfall, a must on the way to a full
financial recovery. The survey of cities indicates that the reform of the federally mandated but
un-compensated fare discounts and exemptions may be the major stumbling block in this endeavor, albeit
one that is relatively easy to remove. It is also certain that substantial cost efficiency reserves remain in the
public sector, but it is difficult to discuss efficiency of companies which are chronically under-financed.

2.    The Achievement of Other Reform Objectives in Client Cities:

(a)   Reform the status of public-sector operators and their relation with municipal authorities. This
objective was nominally achieved. The cities transformed their public transport companies into legally
independent corporate entities in public ownership, separated urban from intercity operations, and
introduced service contracts as instruments to regulate the city-company relationships, all of which were
stated as covenants in the Loan Agreement. Nationally, public-owned operators sign service contracts in
43% of cities, while in 25% they are asked to bid for contracts, competing with private operators. In 33%
of cities, the traditional budget approval remains as the vehicle for regulating public-owned operators.
Uniquely in the city of Vologda, the tram-based, public-owned operation has been transformed into a
joint-stock enterprise which leases vehicles from the city and provides services under contract.

Since the Project had no other instruments to assist in these reform activities, e.g. technical assistance in
designing service contracts, requirements for annual reviews of effectiveness and updates, and evaluation of
experience, it is not possible to say whether the change in legal status and the introduction of service
contracts also involved changes in substance, not to mention tracing the impact of these changes on the
operating costs and service outputs of the client companies. The above-cited operating ratios for transport
operators in the client cities, indicating the close proximity to a break-even position in half of the cities,
gives hope that service contracts may have contributed to achieving one of their two main purposes - a
rational and disciplined payment of operating subsidies.

(b)   Improve operations, maintenance and planning activities of the client companies. The operators
profited from the Project in that various technical assistance activities showed them how to improve
organization and management, especially as regards the economics of vehicle rehabilitation and the
approach to procurement of rehabilitation and parts purchases. The actual impacts of these activities on
operating costs are not traceable.

(c)   Involve the private sector in the provision of urban passenger transport operations and
auxiliary services for public-sector transport operators in the client cities. The following table, drawn
from the above cited survey of the client cities, shows the fleets in service owned by the public and private
companies in 2001 or 2002:




                                                        - 12 -

                                  City                      Public           Private
                                  Cherepovets                 173             180
                                  Tver                        256             670
                                  Smolensk                    196             328
                                  Saransk                      95             307
                                  Samara                    1,060             970
                                  Rostov-on-Don               474             583
                                  Pskov                       100               15
                                  Omsk                       1,024           1,480
                                  Novgorod                    184                0
                                  Nizhny Novgorod              391           1,200
                                  Kostroma                     205             170
                                  Ekaterinburg                1,016            245
                                  Vologda                      189               30
                                  Velikie Luki                 n.a.             n.a.

The numbers are not comparable, since most private operators run midi and mini buses, while public-sector
operators run standard-size buses and some run trams. Still, it is safe to conclude that, in the majority of
cities, private operations have increased by leaps and bounds. While the weak covenant agreed under this
Project cannot be credited to have led cities to open up the sector to private operators, it is important to
realize that Project investments in the public-sector operators did not act as a barrier to private sector
development.

A much larger survey done within the Reform Study (see the item on technical assistance and training in
Section 4.2 below) revealed that, in 2001, the privately provided public transport services accounted for
10-15% of urban passenger trips. In about 10% of cities, the private share of the market was as much as
30-40%. Ten out of 14 client cities responded to the national survey, of which two (Omsk and
Rostov-on-Don, both exceeding 1 million population and among the largest beneficaries of the Project) fell
into the group with the best reform record. As noted above, Rostov-on-Don leads with 50% of the market
carried by private operators. Altogether, the majority of client cities appear to have a superior record with
privatization-oriented reforms than the sample of 84 cities participating in the survey.

3.   Arrest the Decline in Urban Transport Services Throughout Russia (beyond the 14 client cities).
This was a very ambitious objective that would have been almost impossible to achieve within the context
of a project that focused principally on only 14 cities in Russia. The spare parts program was viewed as
the principal project means by which this objective was to be achieved. Since this project component was
not implemented for several reasons, (see Section 3.4), this project objective was effectively dropped.
Nevertheless, some of the improvements in cost recovery aimed at arresting passenger system decline in the
client cities were emulated in other cities. In addition, the preparation of a national urban passenger
transport strategy that advocated substantial reforms, and which was completed during the later stages of
the project, has the potential of substantially arresting the decline in urban transport services on a national
scale.

4.     Provide Restructuring Advice to the Domestic Bus Industry. The re-birth of the domestic bus
vehicle industry normally involves a wide range of activities over a long period of time. The Borrower had
wanted a much more active involvement of the Bank, e.g. by co-financing the resuscitation of vehicle
manufacturers, but this was not accepted by the Bank. As a compromise, a limited objective adopted under
this Project was to cover the very first stage of the recovery program. It consisted of the market research on
both demand and supply side and the dissemination of results, hoping for a catalytic role as regards the


                                                      - 13 -

private finance. This limited objective was reached in that the market study was carried out and
disseminated in July 1998, leading to expressions of interest of foreign investors in two domestic
manufacturers. The Project might have provided further assistance had not the fiscal crisis of 1998 cooled
investors' interest in Russia.

5.     Achievement of the Non-declared and Added Objectives:

(a)    Assist the Ministry of Transport in preparing an overall strategy for urban passenger transport
sector and its dissemination. This objective was fully achieved. In fact, the impact of the Project on
institutions at the national level, specifically the Ministry of Transport, has been remarkable. In 2000, with
the return of macro stability and rekindling of economic growth in Russia, and the rise of a new wave of
economic reforms, it became clear that many cities had of necessity experimented on their own with
public-sector reform, deregulation and privatization, without waiting for a top-down action. As the Project
was being restructured for quick completion, the Ministry of Transport and the Bank agreed to initiate a
study to assess the progress that cities throughout Russia had made in this regard. The study grew to
encompass field work in some 100 Russian cities, the collection of international experience with urban
public transport regulation, the generation and evaluation of regulatory options for Russia, and
--ultimately-- a full-fledged reform proposal for the national urban passenger transport sector.

In recognition of the importance of this study, the Bank extended the Closing Date for a year (to June 30,
2002) to permit its completion and the dissemination of its results to various national, regional and city
institutions. The process culminated in a series of workshops for city and regional governments in the
Spring/Summer of 2002, where the study findings and reform proposals were presented and debated. As of
this writing, the Ministry of Transport has presented an Open Reform Proposal to the Government of the
Russian Federation (Annex 11), and has entered into discussions with the Bank regarding the prospects for
future assistance in the implementation of refor. An additional summary of the reform, as proposed by
cities gathered in the Sochi Seminar (a part of intensive learning efforts), is included in Annex 9.

(b)    Introduce competitive bidding for the procurement of new vehicles and vehicle rehabilitation.
This objective was fully reached. A set of pioneering, high-quality vehicle specifications were developed for
new buses and trolley-buses. These moved the client cities from the obsolete technology common in the
Soviet era towards vehicles common on the world markets, featuring lower floors (to facilitate passenger
boarding and alighting), comfortable seats, efficient heating and cooling, higher fuel efficiency, lower
emissions and longer service life. This, coupled with explicit bid evaluation criteria, produced a wide
response from suppliers. Quality inspection of vehicles prior to delivery was also an important innovation
achieved under the Project, and was emulated by other countries (e.g. Turkmenistan, under a bank-funded
urban transport project). Specifications for vehicle rehabilitation and the associated training, were also
successful, though the markets were limited to mostly domestic ones.

(c)    Provide assistance with the development of the reform program for national roads and the
Russian Railways, focusing on public expenditures aspect. This objective was reached in that both
studies were carried out, but it is too early to evaluate the reform prospects. The dialogue between the
Government and the Bank is underway, with the railway reforms appearing to pull ahead and slower, but
sound, road financing reforms being proposed.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Keeping the same numbers used in Section 3.3 to present Project components, the implementation record is
as follows:


                                                      - 14 -

1.     The Purchase of New Transport Vehicles (US$208 million net of VAT):

       (i)   a total of 1,392 new buses were purchased and delivered to cities, under several contracts. Of
             these, 851 were 12m (standard) buses at an average unit price of US$131,500 per vehicle and
             541 were articulated buses at US$144,000 to US$198,127 per vehicle.

       (ii)  38 trolley-buses were purchased at US$147,596 per vehicle from a joint venture of Skoda
             (Czech Republic) with a Russian company. A signed contract for an additional 234
             trolley-buses was cancelled because of the bankruptcy of the Russian supplier.

             Section 10 shows the allocation of these new vehicles among various client cities.

2.     Vehicle Rehabilitation (US$27.1 million net of VAT): 818 buses were rehabilitated at US$10.7
million; 254 trolley-buses were rehabilitated at US$4.5 million; and 328 trams were rehabilitated at
US$11.9 million. The cost includes spare parts for those rehabilitation contracts carried out in-house.
Section 10 shows how many vehicles, by type, were rehabilitated under the Project.

3.     Equipment (US$4.3 million): Workshop, computer and communications equipment for the
participating public transport companies were purchased for US$4 million. Another US$0.3 million was
spent for equipment for the Project Implementation Unit.

4.     Technical Assistance and Training (US$8.4 million):

       (i)   US$4.4 million for technical assistance and training for the participating cities; and

       (ii)  US$4.0 million for project implementation (PIU), training and studies.

This component included studies, seminars, field trips and practical training. The PID set up an Urban
Transport Training Center in its Moscow office, which was used to disseminate the results of various
studies and give specialized seminars by consultants. The Center had 9 computer modules for various
subjects, allowing simultaneous training for 16 participants. Over the life of the project, the Center
conducted 13 workshops in urban transport management, on topics including management information
systems, marketing, quality control, accounting, fare setting, revenue collection, automatic vehicle
monitoring, route planning, scheduling and vehicle replacement. At the end of the Project, the equipment
and furniture were taken over by the Ministry of Transport to be used for training events organized by the
Ministry (see the Reference to the Reform Support Center in Section 4.5 below).

The main studies and events delivered in the first phase of the Project were as follows:

       - Study of Urban Bus Manufacture for the Russian Federation (financed from the Loan): this
study assessed the demand for bus vehicles and 20 Russian companies involved in bus manufacture. Of
these, 12 companies were selected as promising for potential investors. An Investors' Conference was
organized in Moscow in March 1998, with the participation of about 200 foreign companies and financial
institutions. Following the conference, the consultants were to advise the selected manufacturers on their
business plans. This activity was interrupted by the Russian fiscal crisis and was never completed.

       - Training in Vehicle Rehabilitation (financed from a grant by the Dutch Government): the



                                                    - 15 -

consultants first visited the cities to assess the demand for and the existing approaches to rehabilitation,
then proceeded in three directions. First, they developed specifications to be used in tendering rehabilitation
works. After some editing by the cities, the PID and the Bank, these were used to tender bus rehabilitation
under the Project. Second, there was a field trip to Holland, to visit bus rehabilitation plants. Third, the
consultants delivered a combination of theoretical and hands-on courses on bus rehabilitation, in two
stages, to participants from diverse cities and the Ministry of Transport. The hands-on courses took place
on the premises of a Russian bus rehabilitation factory. Altogether 86 participants from 21 cities took part
in this training.

       - Vehicle Inspection (financed from the loan): this included both the inspection of the production
plant and process for vehicle manufacture and the inspection of vehicles prior to delivery, be they new or
rehabilitated. In the first phase of the Project, vehicle inspection and training of Russian staff, were
provided by a consulting firm commissioned by the PID. In the second phase, inspection services were done
by individual Russian specialists trained in the first phase.

       - Urban Public Transport Management in Medium-Size Cities (financed through a grant by the
Dutch Government): this study, undertaken early in the Project life, was meant to provide a basis for
various reforms that cities were to undertake under this project by relating Russian experience with that of
other countries. It produced a compendium of information about the managerial and revenue collection
aspects of urban passenger transport in Russian cities, which fed into the programs delivered by the
Training Center. It also delivered 3 seminars on focus areas: accounting, contractual relations and transport
planning.

       -   Seminar on Public Transport Regulation and Management. This seminar took place in
Helsinki, Finland and Flen, Sweden (Scania Training Center), with joint financing by the Finnish
government, Scania and the Bank's Economic Development Institute (now World Bank Institute). The
Russian delegation, led by a deputy minister of transport, consisted of 23 officials, split in half between the
central and regional/city governments. More than 100 cities had expressed interest in participation, but
eventually cancelled due to the onset of the financial crisis. The program included a general presentation on
public transport regulation tailored for a Russian audience, plus case studies from Finnish, British,
Swedish, Polish and Ukrainian cities.

       - Seminar on Competition in Urban Passenger Transport. This seminar, organized by the PID in
Moscow in December 1998, gathered 100 participants from 40 cities, and focused on in-country
expreience. By revealing a variety of actions that cities throughout Russia were taking on their own in
response to evident inability of municipal governments to continue funding public-owned transport
companies, this seminar was a pivotal event in the Project. It revealed that the spontaneous reforms
involved the emergence of a weakly regulated private sector, which did not recognize fare privileges, and a
poorly financed public sector overloaded by patrons claiming such privileges. The seminar appears to have
alerted MoT officials that a national reform effort is highly warranted and inspired the Bank staff to turn
the Project away from the concern with investments in the client cities towards the national aspects of its
agenda.

In the second phase of the Project, there were three studies, all three initiated by the Russian side and
financed from the Loan:

       - National Urban Passenger Transport Reform Study. This study was initiated in 2001 and
included 4 parts: (1) a mail survey of urban transport conditions in 142 Russian cities above 100,000
population (84 cities responded); (2) field studies in 12 cities, two of which were beneficiaries under the


                                                      - 16 -

Project; (3) a re-study of Russian vehicle supply industry; and (4) a survey of international experience with
urban transport regulation. The study findings informed and interacted with an on-going reform process
initiated by the MoT, in consultation with MoF, cities and regions. Three events with wide participation
were held in May-June 2002 to discuss issues and proposals with the stake-holders: regional workshops in
Rostov-on-Don and Omsk, and a national workshop in Sochi (details in Annex 9). The resulting Open
Proposal for National Urban Public Transport Reform cited above and summarized in Annex 11 has
become part of the Federal Targeted Program for Transport Sector Modernization in Russia (horizon
2010).

       - Public Expenditures Study for Russian Railways and Public Expenditure Study for National
Roads: as noted in para 5(c) in Section 4.1, both studies were completed, and the reform processes are
underway.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

No economic evaluation was done for this report. As noted in Section 3.5 above, the evaluations done in 14
cities at appraisal were based on weak data and required numerous assumptions. At project completion, the
investment costs are known exactly, but this is the only improvement relative to appraisal. Rigorous
investment analyses for fleet replacement and/or expansion require reliable time-series data on operating
and maintenance costs for specific vehicle models. Such data being out of question in this case, a
re-evaluation would involve an effort comparable to that expended at appraisal, and comparable in the
quality of the output. This is neither doable with the resources available, nor is it worth doing. For a further
discussion of this matter, please see Section 8 (Lessons).

4.4 Financial rate of return:

No financial evaluation of Project-funded investments was done either at appraisal or at completion. The
financial data for the participating public transport companies are in Annex 8.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The most visible institutional impact of the Project is at the national level. The training activities and the
studies have contributed in stimulating and assisting the MoT to undertake a far-reaching regulatory policy
reform. To further this reform, assist the cities and regions, as well as interact with other national-level
institutions, the MoT have set up a Center for Urban Public Transport Reform (CUPTR) and a
Distance-Learning Center, the latter financed by trust funds set up by the World Bank, and the
Governments of Ireland, United Kingdom and the Netherlands. These new institutions will guard and carry
on the knowledge amassed under the Project, using all the up-to-date means of information processing and
communication.

It is difficult to establish an explicit and direct link between the project's activities and institutional
development in the client cities and others throughout Russia. Still, the unusually high exposure that city
and regional officials and professionals had to the state-of-the-art public transport management and
regulation as practiced in the Western Europe, as well as in more narrow activities such as procurement,
vehicle rehabilitation and management information systems, is highly likely to have had impacts, and will
continue to have them.




                                                     - 17 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

In August 1998, Russia experienced a severe financial crisis. The country defaulted on its external debt
payments, the GNP dropped by 5 percent, and the real wage rate dropped by 13 percent in 1998 and 22
percent in 1999. The ruble was exchanged at a rate of 5.78 per US$ in 1997, but 24.62 in 1999, almost a
77% loss. The ruble equivalent of the dollar-denominated debt rose to 4 times the pre-crisis level.
Significantly for this Project, the capacity of regional and local governments to repay dollar-denominated
sub-loans taken from the MoF was reduced sharply, while at the same time MoF took drastic measures to
compress central budget expenditures and control inflation.


These macro events occurred at a critical time in the life of the Project, the Bank team perceiving that the
progress in the reform efforts by cities was lagging behind the procurement, and starting to think of ways to
change this. The most direct impact of the crisis was that cities accumulated arrears in sub-loan payments.
Since exogenous influences were intertwined with developments which were within the control of MoT and
the PID, the review is continued in the next section.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The May 1998 supervision mission rated both the implementation progress and the achievement of
development objectives as satisfactory. Still, as an augury of things to come, it gave unsatisfactory ratings
for the availability of counterpart funds (needed to pay import duties to get newly purchased vehicles from
the customs) and the pace of the fleet replacement component, this last due to delays in delivering locally
produced trolley-buses and buses. By October 1998, the Project's implementation progress was rated
unsatisfactory, though development objectives were still being met, the cost recovery targets being exceeded
by a wide margin in 12 out of 14 client cities. At this time, loan disbursements were US$228 million and
commitments were at US$320 million, with a strong possibility that another US$10-15 million of
committed funds would not lead to disbursements, since the contractors were not performing. MoF asked
for a cancellation of all loan funds which were judged not to be urgently needed, a measure expected of all
projects given the pressure on public expenditures.

The Project faced a watershed, with options being to cancel the loan balance, or to allocate it based on a
revised procurement plan. The seminar on the Russian experience in urban public transport reforms,
sponsored by the Project and held in Moscow in December 1998, showed that various cities (but not
necessarily all the client cities) had proceeded with privatization using a variety of competitive
arrangements. A revised procurement plan could therefore be used to reward those cities which were ahead
in the reform process.

By July 1999, a Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) found that, the progress on cost recovery
notwithstanding, the linkage between the purchases funded from the loan and the implementation of the
agreed reforms by the client cities was weak. On the financial side, the client cities were already in arrears
with sub-loan payments to MoF by some US$23.5 million. It was also found that the PID, which had
become an independent legal entity working under contract to the Ministry of Transport but without its
direct oversight, had gone on making loan disbursements on behalf of cities regardless of the sub-loan
status. In fact, MoF had withdrawn the PID's authorization to sign withdrawal applications already in April
1999 and the PID was effectively disbanded later on in that same year. In addition to sub-loan arrears,



                                                     - 18 -

amounts disbursed on behalf of individual cities were in dispute, the PID and city-based accounts showing
different numbers. In any case, there was a need to amend sub-loan agreements to reflect changes from the
initially agreed loan amounts. In the ensuing discussions between the Government and the Bank, a tight
timetable was agreed for the MoT to restructure the PID, straighten its financial management, amend
sub-loan agreements, resolve the status of non-performing contracts and cities with sub-loan arrears, and
propose a strategy for continuing the project. This last was to be based on strengthening the reform agenda.
Based on the achievements of these actions and the substance of the MoT proposals, the Inter-ministerial
Commission was to decide whether to request the cancellation of the remaining funds, with the Bank
leaving open the possibility of seeking the suspension of disbursements and other remedies for
non-performance.

It took more than a year for all the elements of restructuring to be in place, with the Bank coming close, in
November 1999 and again in June 2000, to suspending the Project. By September 2000, 8 out of 14
original cities had dropped out of the Project, being unable or unwilling to settle sub-loan arrears, amend
the sub-loan agreements and/or make the remaining investments planned under the Project. The PID was
re-constituted, with an especially strong focus on the financial management. MoF maintained its final say
in all matters concerning sub-loan arrangements and loan withdrawals, while MoT was responsible for all
other aspects. The Bank rejected all proposals by MoT and the PID to use the loan balance for making
additional purchases of new vehicles and to add new cities, even if they were credit-worthy and were
making good progress on reforms. It was felt that the Project had reached its original objectives, but that it
was time to seek higher-level objectives in the sector.The revised procurement plan, as finally agreed, held
only expenditures for rehabilitation and maintenance purposes, plus technical assistance for a national
study of urban passenger transport regulation. Non-performing contracts were annulled, the major among
them being the contract for 230 trolley-buses with Trolza. This manufacturer had been bankrupt all along,
but the old PID management placed a high value on helping them survive, even if this was at the detriment
of the client cities. A total of US$55 million was cancelled from the loan at that time.

By the end of the Project, only three cities managed to eliminate sub-loan arrears and continue to make
payments. The majority of cities still have large arrrears, and some have not made any payments, e.g.
Kostroma (since 1996) and Omsk (since 1998):

                                                           Total due        Arrears
                                   City                       ($mn)($mn)
                                   Cherepovets*                5.2             0.0
                                   Tver*                       3.7             2.1
                                   Smolensk*                   6.8             3.0
                                   Saransk                     7.4             7.4
                                   Samara                    18.1              2.1
                                   Rostov-on-Don             13.8              0.0
                                   Pskov*                      7.2             3.5
                                   Omsk                      23.7            22.4
                                   Novgorod*                   8.4             4.7
                                   Nizhny Novgorod*            2.0             1.7
                                   Kostroma                    8.2             8.1
                                   Ekaterinburg              20.7            13.7
                                   Vologda*                    5.7            -0.9
                                   Velikie Luki*               3.3             2.0
                                   Totals                   134.0            69.9




                                                    - 19 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

This subject is included in the preceding sub-section.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The final costs of the Project and the final amount disbursed from the Loan are substantially lower than
those estimated at appraisal. The reasons for doing so include the cancellation of the National Spare Parts
Component, as no longer necessary, the exit of 6 cities following the 1998-99 crisis, and the annulment of
trolley-bus contracts due to above-cited bankruptcy of the supplier. For additional details, see Sections 3.4
and 5.2.

Within the implemented components, the contract prices for both buses and trolley-buses were higher than
estimated at appraisal. Unit prices for standard-size buses, at about US$131,500 were 12.5% higher and
trolley-buses at about US$147,600 were 55.4% higher. Two general points need to be made here before the
details in the subsequent paragraphs. First, the purchase price is not the same as the life-cycle cost, so
higher prices may involve a lower life-cycle cost. Second, the expected prices are based on averages of
recent market data for a similar class of buses, whereas the final prices are co-determined by the details of
the technical specification and the features of the bidding process, e.g. the degree of competition.

Since the competition for bus contracts was considerable (initially 27 bidders), the price that emerged from
the tender was due to the details of the technical specification. These details were discussed at length during
project preparation, which has been an experience common to all Bank-funded projects involving fleet
purchases. This took months of debate and correspondence between the Borrower and the Bank. It could
be that the mandatory features could have been fewer and/or set at lower levels without affecting the
essential features of the vehicle and leading to a lower price, but then this matter involves an inexact
science. The Borrower was keen on producing a specification which would meet the EU standards, in part
to encourage the nascent Russian bus supply industry to rise up to the challenge and produce a vehicle that
could not only be sold domestically but also compete on export markets. The specification as it emerged
was by no means excessive, and has since gained a wide currency elsewhere (India and China).

The Bank had initially recommended a relatively small first bidding round in order to test the procedures
and allow the Russian parties to familiarize themselves with ICB, but the Russian side insisted that the
cities couldn't wait; their need was too urgent. Also, it was expected that the size of the aggregate order
would stimulate lower prices. As it turned out, a second round tender was required, as the first round
proved inconclusive for many of the packages. Those contracts which went to domestic suppliers were
deliberately kept small because of their limited capacity. The Government adopted Euro II standards after
the first round but before the second, raising standards at a time when the Bank had started to worry about
whether the Russian passengers would find these buses affordable.             But the second round bidding
documents distinguished between mandatory criteria, which had to be met, and all others (desirable but not
deal-breakers). This reduced the extent of disagreements between the borrower and the Bank.

For trolley-buses, the scale of the difference in expected and final prices is largely due to the fact that the
lower cost contract with Russian suppliers for 234 vehicles (at about US$106,000) was cancelled due to
the bankruptcy of the manufacturer, and only the more expensive, smaller contract for 38 imported
trolleybuses was executed.




                                                      - 20 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The two major objectives of the Project, in its first phase (1996-1998), improved cost recovery and the
preservation of the essential public transport capacity in 14 cities, were achieved. It is the former, the cost
recovery and generally the public transport funding, which over the long term contributes to the
sustainability of the latter - the supply of public transport services. The level of cost recovery in most client
cities exceeded the agreed targets by considerable amounts, which gave rise to expectations that this trend
would continue and, in turn, that these results are sustainable. By the end of 2001, the expectations of
sustainability were further strengthened by even higher cost recovery, approaching in some cities a
break-even position in terms of variable costs. This was achieved in spite of the Russian financial crisis of
1998-99. The main reservation about the sustainability, at that time, was due to the persistence of the
financial gap in public transport companies in most client cities, indicating that cities had reduced their
subsidies to this sector, in real terms.

In the second phase of the Project (1999-2002), the major objective became to evolve a national urban
public transport policy. This has been achieved and the new policy proposal has left the technical ministry
(Ministry of Transport), passing into the legislative system. It is difficult to gage the likelihood that the
proposal on the table will be mapped into a law in the near future, but there is ground for optimism. In that
the new policy is based on competitively awarded service contracts between the city authorities and
independent operators (private or public-owned), inclusive of explicit compensation arrangements for
revenues lost due to social policy on fares, the future is likely to see public transport operators move
towards improved financial health, which alone will guarantee the preservation and improvement of service
levels. It is this likelihood which backs up the sustainability rating for the Project, with a qualifying
statement that the main guarantee of sustainability is sustained economic growth in Russia, translated into
healthy finances for both city treasuries and household budgets.

In addition to these major objectives, a new approach to the procurement of vehicles and vehicle
rehabilitation was introduced through the Project. This refers to the writing of detailed specifications, as
well as the use of competitive bidding, and coming up with bid evaluation criteria. This may not survive
and be diffused throughout the sector in exactly this form, in that future specifications may be more
functional and less detailed, but the overall approach was absorbed and is likely to be tried again in the
future.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The work on the policy reform was funded from the loan and carried out through a team of consultants
commissioned by the Project Implementation Directorate, with frequent interaction with the Ministry of
Transport. Now that this preparatory work has been completed and the PID was disbanded at the end of
December 2002, the Ministry of Transport has put in place a permanent Reform Center, led by its top-level
experts on this subject, to continue the process through its legislative stage and further into implementation.
In another dimension, a Distance Learning Center for the sector is being set up with Bank assistance and
trust fund monies, to continue working with cities throughout Russia on a two-way exchange of knowledge
and experience. These are excellent results and provide additional support to the sustainability rating.




                                                       - 21 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The lending stage of this Project followed a well-established pattern, in which experienced staff did a rapid
urban sector reconnaissance and identified areas where immediate Bank assistance is warranted. This was
followed by an unusually massive effort on project preparation, with substantial inputs in terms of staff
resources from the client cities, the Federal Government, and the Bank. In addition, major grants to finance
the preparation studies were obtained from trust funds set by the governments of United States,
Netherlands and United Kingdom.

It took all of 2 years from the initial reconnaissance mission to appraisal, one more year for negotiations
and the Board approval, and almost another year for effectiveness. This being the first urban transport
operation in Russia, a new borrower in difficult and unprecedented circumstances, the preparation process
in fact combined sector and project work, and faced formidable obstacles of culture and communication.
The design of the Project, as it emerged from the final negotiations, can be criticized on several technical
grounds (as it was done in Section 3.5), but it is best seen as a compromise between what the team had
wanted to achieve and what the Russian clients would agree to do.

The list of the most contentious matters was headed by a truly tectonic shift needed in fare and cost
recovery policy, unprecedented sub-lending arrangements needed between the cities, the oblasts and the
Russian federation, and the acceptance of the ICB approach in procurement. The preparation of bid
documents for purchasing new vehicles using ICB rules, and for contracting out vehicle rehabilitation,
would now be a routine matter, but in 1994 it was the first of a kind for Russia, and a first after a very long
while for the Bank. That it ended up successfully owed a lot to a vital input of technical assistance by Bank
staff and consultants in the complicated matter of vehicle specifications and bid evaluation criteria. All
subsequent Bank urban transport projects in the ECA region profited from the ground work having been
done in Russia. One positive aspect of this long process is that the preparation of the bus purchase
component, the most important investment under the Project, was well-advanced at effectiveness, and could
be tendered right away.

Altogether, the frequency and staffing of preparation missions by requisite specialists was impressive, and
a change in the Bank team leadership ahead of appraisal and again after negotiations went smoothly.

In sum, the Bank's performance during the lending stage is rated satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

The supervision history falls into three distinct periods: before and after the 1998 financial crisis, and the
period in-between, while the destiny of the Project hung in balance. The supervision effort started with a
formal project launch, which was essential for a project with a new borrower and multiple beneficiaries.
The focus over the next two and a half years was on ensuring a smooth implementation of major
investments, which required a continuous involvement with the mechanics of procurement and contract
execution, and dealing with a problem of counterpart funds to pay VAT and customs taxes. On the policy
side, the focus was on ensuring that the beneficiary companies met the principal objective of the Project - a
steady increase in cost recovery from fare revenues. Both of these were carried out very well, and there was
no loss of continuity upon another change in the Bank team leadership in early 1997. The preponderance of


                                                    - 22 -

procurement, which was done centrally, and the ease of checking on cost recovery, which could also be
done centrally based on reports provided by the client cities, meant that Moscow was the locus of
supervision activities. The contacts with the beneficiaries also took place in Moscow, during missions and
especially during seminars and workshops. There were only a few visits to some key cities. This meant less
intimate knowledge of what was happening there with regard to the policy initiatives which could not be
easily captured in standard city reports, but this was the only feasible approach given the modest size of the
supervision budget. All missions were composed of the project leader visiting from the Bank headquarters,
a specialist of one type or another (as deemed necessary at that time), an infrastructure specialist located in
the RM Moscow to provide continuity, and (after the PAS system was introduced in 1998) a procurement
specialist also located in the RM Moscow. Visiting all cities, even on a rotating schedule, was simply out of
question. The evidence of brisk and effective supervision activities in this stage is plentiful and persuasive.
As noted elsewhere in this report, Bank assistance in the matter of writing technical specifications and bid
evaluation criteria for new vehicles was so strong that the term "supervision" is a misnomer. Doing the
same for vehicle rehabilitation, a first such effort in Bank history, was even more impressive, given the
need to reflect variable states of individual vehicles in any one batch. The performance of the Bank in this
stage is rated satisfactory.

After the procurement-focused first stage of supervision and before the reform-oriented third stage was the
difficult time of the Russian financial meltdown and its negative impacts on the client cities and the Project.
As the crisis with sub-loan arrears developed, the original PID's activities were frozen by the Ministry of
Finance, as were several technical assistance contracts. It is noted that the supervision effort in this period,
in terms of frequency and size of the missions, was lower than before. The Bank evidently decided to
reduce its spending on the Project until the situation was clearer. The local staff based in the RM Moscow
were expected to pick up the slack. This did not work out very well. The field presence of a seasoned
project manager would have brought matters to a more rapid resolution. Eventually, the instrument of
Country Project Portfolio Reviews was used to write the issue papers for each project and discuss options
with the Bank's main interlocutor in Russia (MoF) in Washington, then spell out the conditions for the
resumption of activities under each project. Regular supervision under the Project was resumed only when
all the conditions were met. The entire package amounted to project restructuring.

Looking at these actions as a crisis-management process, it is recognized that it did result in unblocking
and the continuation of the Project, under a new PID, with a reduced set of clients, tighter rules of conduct
as regards the financial management, and a new orientation.

Apart from the functional aspects of the restructuring, it is worth looking at it from a policy point of view.
The crucial aspect of the crisis management effort was the choice of sub-loan discipline as a criterion for
cities to stay in or leave the Project. An alternative approach could have been to look at the performance of
each city regarding the agreed policy agenda. If reform-oriented cities had difficulty in making sub-loan
payments, largely due to a national crisis, this approach could have included re-programming of sub-loans,
just as Russia had its loans re-programmed by the external creditors. Again, had an experienced project
manager spent time in the field, this approach might have been tried. Another aspect of this situation is that
the indebtness of cities vis-a-vis MoF was not simply a one-way matter. The Federation had its own arrears
vis-a-vis the municipalities and the regions. Moreover, the refusal of the Federation to deal with fare
exemptions, whether to remove them or to compensate them out of federal treasury, was and still is the
major stumbling block in the insolvency of the urban public transport sector.

Seen in this light, the decision to elevate the sub-loan discipline into a one-off criterion for remaining in the
Project appears to be out of line with what the project was trying to do in the transport domain. The Bank's
action amounted to a strong position in support of the Ministry of Finance, but in disregard of the


                                                      - 23 -

development objectives of this Project. The sub-loan payments were implicitly declared to be more
important than city-based transport reforms. The records indicate, however, that the stress on sub-loans
came mostly from the MoF, the Bank staff having a much broader interest, with reforms at its focus. This
was a period of considerable confusion and controversy, with inter- and intra-governmental squabbles over
mutual financial obligations in an environment laden with political risk. The Bank can claim credit for
getting all parties to focus on: (a) clarifying the financial situation of each city with regards to the loan, (b)
grouping cities according to the scale of their arrears, and (c) tailoring the remaining purchases
accordingly.

Another pivotal decision in the restructuring debate was whether to re-allocate the remaining loan funds or
cancel them. The refusal by the Bank to consider the entry of new cities, ready to honor all obligations and
having the necessary creditworthiness, and its preference for canceling some US$80 million instead, casts a
shadow over the Bank's confidence in the initial project design. Again, this judgment is modified when seen
together with the pressure coming from the MoF to close the loan and the lengthy procurement experience
in the first stage of the Project. Also, the success of the last phase of the Project with regard to the national
regulatory reform in urban passenger transport may be used to justify the implicit abandonment of the
objectives related to the client cities in favor of an (undeclared) national objective. Still, it may have been
possible to have both, the loyalty to the original clients and higher ambitions on the national level. Perhaps
the decision to reduce supervision in the crisis period prevented a more intimate insight into city matters,
hence a more beneficial outcome from the cities' point of view. In all, the supervision at this stage is rated
as marginally satisfactory.

The third supervision period was between project restructuring in 2000 and the loan closing in 2002. The
national financial crisis had removed from the project all among the client cities that had payment
problems. The bulk of procurement activities was finished and non-performing contracts were cancelled.
The remaining, smaller-scale procurement activities were carried out without difficulties, helped in part by
the learning process of the preceding years, though it must be recognized that introducing a competitive
bidding approach to vehicle rehabilitation was a technically challenging task. The task of supervising this
residual procurement was much easier than in the 1996-98 period, and had no institutional and policy
controversies akin to those seen in the restructuring phase. The Bank team received a new task, or at least a
new emphasis, and this is what they focused on. Since the mood in the country had changed toward a
greater support for structural reforms, the final part of the Project was to assist with the national-level
policy reform in the urban passenger transport sector. This implied that the attention on the broader sector
developments in the individual cities remaining in the Project was to be even lower than in the first and
second supervision periods. The team performed its new task successfully and its achievements went well
beyond expectations. As described in Section 5, the process consisted of an escalating sequence of city
surveys, results analysis, policy development, dissemination and debate with a wide circle of stakeholders.
Its crowning achievements were to connect the technical process of policy development with the workings
of the political and legislative machinery at the federal level, and to found and fund two new institutions to
carry on with the effort (MoT's Reform Support Center and the Distance Learning Center). The term
"supervision" is a misnomer in this case, given an exceptionally active participation in situ. On balance, the
effort was satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

In conclusion, the overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:



                                                       - 24 -

Given that the preparation took place in 1994-95, a few short years since the breakup of the Soviet Union
with its well-set ways of doing things, the fact that the Russian Ministries of Transport and Finance, plus
city and regional administrations, could find a common language with the World Bank is nothing short of
remarkable. As noted in Section 7.1, the outcome of the preparation process can be criticised on several
grounds, but the essence of the compromise must be applauded. The performance of the Borrower in this
part of the project cycle, all inclusive, is rated satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

In the first stage of the Project, the onus of implementing both investment and policy actions was not on the
federal government, but on cities and regions. Setting up a reasonably independent PID, with hands free to
manage the procurement process in cooperation with the Bank, can be seen as an effective approach to
implementing the physical components of the Project. The performance of the MoT-based UTCC, expected
to focus on policies, was a case of benign neglect, at best. This created serious problems in responding to
and resolving the 1998-99 crisis. In this stage, the performance of the Russian side is rated marginally
satisfactory.

The city governments did a very good job in meeting the agreed cost recovery targets, and were eager to
absorb what was being offered through various training and technical assistance events. They were not
really interested in pursuing other aspects of the policy reform agenda (service contracts, private sector
involvement), nor were MoT and MoF consistent in pushing them to do so.

The matters regarding the Federal government performance changed in the second stage, 1998-2000, with
the onset of the financial crisis and problems with sub-loan payments. The MoF took an acute interest in
project restructuring, albeit guided by macro concerns rather than those essential to the Project. Per contra,
the Ministry of Transport also took an active role, but its interests in project-internal matters went much
deeper. MoT changed the implementation team, interacted with the client cities, and proposed several
constructive options for project restructuring. That these were not accepted by the Bank (and MoF) is a
testimony that one set of objectives turned out to hold sway over another, and does not cast a dark shadow
on the content of these options or the performance of the MoT. This stage is rated satisfactory.

In the third stage of the Project, 2000-2002, the role of the MoF remained strictly that of a financial
controller, but that of the Ministry of Transport blossomed in the above described policy reform activity at
the national level. Ultimately, MoF and MoT expanded the focus of the reform beyond urban transport to
roads and railways. The MoT, as well as the entire Project, found its policy mission. This stage is rated
satisfactory.

All in all, the performance of the Government is rated satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The original PID discharged its duties in a sharply polarized way. Its attention and interest were on
managing procurement, which they did well. A blemish on their performance was that they protected the
interests of the domestic suppliers in preference to those of the client cities, which led to a protracted and
ultimately failed experience with trolley-bus purchases. The PID had much less interest, if any, in the
policy reforms, and in any case had no staff focusing on these. Conflicts between PID manager and the
original team of expatriate policy advisers may have been due to personalities, but also hint at contrary
policy views. As the 1998 crisis struck, the PID took the side of cities in the matter of the sub-loan arrears,



                                                        - 25 -

which meant that the problem became much larger by the time it was recognized in the Ministry of Finance.
The PID's financial management was not rigorous; it took much extra work to reconcile the cities' and
PID-kept accounts, but happily - it was only a question of sloppy recording, at least in part due to the PID's
belief that sub-loan management was the job of the MoF.

The PID as reconstituted in 2000 was charged with managing the residual procurement, while paying much
greater attention to sub-loan discipline by cities and to the management of the project and loan accounts.
This PID did well. The new PID also did a good job of managing the procurement for the three studies
marking the last stage of the Project, and actively participated in the production and dissemination of the
National Study of Urban Passenger Transport Reform, including the on-going political discussions. It
helped create the new institutional structures in the MoT, without attempting to perpetuate itself.

On balance, this performance of the two PID teams is rated satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

In weighing the contributions of these different actors and in different time periods, and especially in the
view of the starting positions and risks, and the positive direction which the project took in the its last stage,
the overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Four out of six lessons drawn from this Project concern the imperative of striving for coherence, first
within the project design itself (i.e. between its objectives, instruments, measures of performance, legal
stipulations), then between the project design on paper and the reality of activities and relations in the field
("external" coherence), and finally the relation of both of these to the project budget. These lessons are not
new, and some corrective actions in terms of operational policies have been taken since this Project was
approved, notably the use of design aids such as the LogFrame. Still, the subject being difficult, presenting
these lessons is warranted, even if some repetition is involved, especially if the examples involve the
"external" coherence and relations to the budget.

The first lesson has to do with a comparison between the efforts (resources) expanded under a project for
some activity and the importance that activity has in the objectives and outcomes scheme. The history of
this Project shows that a major effort was expended by both the Borrower and the Bank (including Bank
consultants) on managing the procurement for purchasing new vehicles and for vehicle rehabilitation, i.e.
on developing technical specifications and bid evaluation criteria. In the first half of the Project (1995-98),
this was no doubt the dominant activity, responsible perhaps for 100 percent of the supervision budget.
This is not surprising in this case, not because of a lack of technical competence on the Borrower's side, but
because the matter involved a new way of doing an important and well established activity, with large
vested interests. Yet, just as in some similar recent projects in the ECA region, the list of declared project
objectives does not include this activity at all. Introducing a major change in procurement apparently does
not rank as a developmental category, though it may consume a lion's share of the preparation and/or
supervision budgets. As the pressures for better monitoring and evaluation of the progress and end results
of projects rise both inside and outside the Bank, it stands to reason that activities which consume large
resources should be reflected in the project design as explicit entries in the objectives and outcomes
framework.

The second lesson involves a situation which is the inverse of the preceding one, i.e. that an activity present
in the objectives and outcomes framework does not have a realistic budgetary dimension. This Project was



                                                      - 26 -

designed with a large agenda on the city level, but the follow-up activities with cities were sparse. In fact,
as noted elsewhere in this report, the follow-up activities could not have been much more intense, given the
number of cities and the distances involved. This has posed multiple problems with supervision, first
because the absence of frequent contacts reduces the policy interaction with the clients, and also for the
monitoring of outcomes (the two are linked). The problem of monitoring peaks at the completion stage,
when the incentives to the beneficiaries to provide information are at their lowest point. The standard
annual statistics supplied by public transport companies rarely provide answers to the questions on the
development effectiveness, especially since they do not cover activities of the municipal governments. A
carefully designed reporting system and disciplined monitoring can help up to a point, but in the presence of
a complex policy agenda, there is no good substitute for judgment based on frequent in-field presence. The
supervision budgets being largely given and modest at best, the difficult lesson of this experience is that the
policy focus of projects should be placed where a solid supervision presence is assured.

The third lesson concerns the links between the policy agenda and the institutional power to make the
relevant changes. In this Project, the reform agenda ranged from what the client cities had the legal power
to do (e.g. raise general fares), then items such as the private sector involvement where the jurisdiction is
unclear, to items such as fare exemptions over which the cities had no authority. The history of this Project
shows an abundance of efforts by cities to experiment with public transport regulation, but the pivotal
change occurred only when the locus of the regulatory effort moved to the Ministry of Transport. MoT
alone had the jurisdiction to evolve a national regulatory framework, which (it is hoped) would allow the
cities a wide latitude in the site-specific implementation. The issue of fare exemptions might have been
resolved had the MoF accepted during negotiations a legal obligation to do so. The lesson is to place the
onus of a condition where there is power to make a change.

The fourth lesson has to do with weak conditionality, which is a notable feature of the Loan Agreement for
this Project. Taking one specific example only, the client cities were obliged to "take all the necessary
measures to support provision of transport services by private individuals or companies, to encourage
wider provision of urban transport services (Loan Agreement, Schedule 7, Clause 7) and "not later than
September 1, 1996, ..... prepare plans for entering into contractual arrangements with entities other than
(its own) transport companies to provide urban transport services or auxiliary services" (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 7, Clause 8). Quite apart from asking 14 cities to adopt a new practice without a national
regulatory framework, and within a few short months from the start of the Project, the open ended nature of
this covenant is in sharp contrast to the amount of political and technical effort needed by the client cities
and the Bank if this initiative were to be pursued in earnest. In this form, it is not an indicator of serious
intent, but rather a symptom that there was little strategic agreement between the Borrower and the Bank in
this matter, if any. It would be better to deal with these subjects through policy letters, retaining the legal
domain only for a few truly pivotal actions.

The fifth lesson has to do with economic evaluation of investments involving fleet replacement and
expansion for public transport services. The methodology for doing these is very well developed, involves a
life-cycle cost analysis, and is widely used in a variety of industries and the military. In public transport
operations, the most frequent application is in the form of a pre-investment financial evaluation done from
the point of view of a company owner facing replace-or-rehabilitate or service expansion decisions. Be they
done in financial or economic terms, rigorous applications of life-cycle costing require reliable time-series
data on operating and maintenance costs for specific vehicle models, and a link between some features of
the vehicles and/or fleet size to demand and revenue variables. Economic analyses are even more
demanding. Absent such data, as was the case at the appraisal of this Project, the evaluation effort relies
on numerous simplifying assumptions on both supply and demand sides, and produces results with a large
band of uncertainty. In the hands of an experienced analyst, the results may be credible, but the procedure


                                                     - 27 -

is laden with individual judgment and therefore difficult to replicate. The post-evaluation effort, such as
needed at project completion, may involve the same scale of effort as the pre-investment evaluation. In
contrast, evaluating (non-urban) road investments relies on the ubiquitous Highway Design Model with an
in-built, vast data bank on linked road and traffic variables. The model is inexpensive to buy and operate,
which makes it nigh ideal for diffusion among road agencies in the Bank's client countries. The
post-evaluation effort is technically trivial and requires low expenditures for new traffic counts. The point
of this comparison is that doing post-investment evaluation of fleet replacement in the context of Bank
lending requires a considerable and expensive effort, which should be anticipated while projects are
prepared and negotiated, and recorded formally in loan/project agreements. This lesson is not limited to
fleet replacement problems; it also holds for most urban transport projects, due to network effects and
longevity of some investments (e.g. metros). This is not the current practice, possibly because the majority
of Bank-funded transport projects involve non-urban road improvements, where the post-evaluation is less
demanding. The General Conditions, in Section 9.06, do define a general obligation by the Borrower to
prepare a project completion report, including "benefits derived and to be derived from it", but this is not
enough when estimation of benefits requires a major effort. The Loan Agreement for the Project in hand
has no specific stipulations on the post-investment studies in 14 cities, e.g. who is going to do them, how
they are going to be funded, etc. Per contra, the Loan Agreement has a standard, irrelevant and widely
disregarded clause asking for "a plan for the future operation of the Project" (Section 3.03).

The sixth lesson is drawn from the experience with sub-loan arrears in 1999, following the collapse of the
ruble against the dollar. Most of the client cities had no recourse but to step out of the Project. The Bank 's
standard advice to the client governments is not to pass the foreign exchange risk to sub-national entities
whose revenue sources are limited to domestic currency. A compromise was made in this project, at the
insistence of the MoF, and it would have been preferable not to do this.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following comments were provided by the Ministry of Transport of the Russian Federation, following
their review of the draft Completion report (the full text of the letter is in Annex 12):

As estimated by the Ministry of Transport of the Russian Federation, and based on the opinion shared by
all the City Administrations, the Project activities contributed to achieving noticeable progress in the public
transport performance in the participating cities.

The identified objectives of the Project (first of all in the capacity of an investment project) were met.

The Project acted as a catalyst of urban transport reforms initiated in Russia. The participating cities
demonstrated the possibility of improving operational management and efficiency through effecting sound
changes and with relatively small investments in the urban transport. It should be noted that many other
Russian cities (which did not participate in the Project) significantly progressed in their transport reforms
drawing upon the experience gained under the Project.

In general, Russia has accumulated diverse experience in managing transport services in the most
complicated financial situation of the 1990s, and in many respects, this became possible owning to the
Project.

At the same time, as regards the challenges of integrated urban transport reform in Russia, the Project has
exposed their complexity rather than provided recipes for their solution.



                                                        - 28 -

Therefore, at the final phase of the Project, the initially designed Project Components were complemented
with the special survey. It was aimed at developing a strategy for the urban transport development and
follow-up reform in Russia building upon the international experience, best practices from Russian cities,
and, certainly, positive lessons learnt under the Project.

The survey convincingly testified to the effect that integrated structural reform is a must, and that without it
any further investment of budget or loan funds into the urban passenger transport would not be efficient
either economically, or socially.

The survey included the development of the Open Russian Nation-Wide Programme of Urban Transport
Reform Implementation which was launched under the MOT's auspices. This is another important output of
the Project with long-term implications.

The Ministry sets its great hopes on the Project's follow-up distant learning programme funded from grants.
The Ministry deems it necessary to continue the co-operation with World Bank in the field of urban
transport reforms, and to this end, it is possible to prepare and conclude an appropriate framework
agreement.

(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no cofinanciers.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
There were no other partners.




                                                     - 29 -

10. Additional Information

                          RUSSIA - URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT: participation by cities

                  -------------------------New vehicles-------- --------- Rehabilitation----------
                            Pop                                                                    TA   Total draw
CITY NAME                  (000)     buses t-buses    $mn      buses t-buses trams $ mn $ mn ($ mn) ($/pop)

Cherepovets***                318         50              8.3        88                      2.3    0.2  10.8     34

Kostroma                      281         91            12.9         18        7             1.1    0.2  14.2     51

Nizhniy Novgorod***          1368                                             36     120        4   0.2   4.2      3

Novgorod***                   265         80     10     13.8         40                      1.2    0.3  15.3     58

Omsk                         1159        290            40.1       219        42             2.9    0.7  43.7     38

Pskov***                      204         75            12.1         15                      0.5    0.2  12.8     63

Rostov-on-Don                1020        169            22.7       126        43      26     3.5    0.5  26.7     26

Samara***                    1160        192            27.8       153        60     100     5.7    0.4  33.9     29

Saransk***                    318         70            10.2          2        6             0.3    0.3  10.8     34

Smolensk***                   352         80            10.9         37                      1.3    0.3  12.5     36

Tver***                       457         34              5.1        20               45     1.3    0.1   6.5     14

Velikie Luki***               118         34              5.6        12                      0.3    0.1   6.0     51

Vologda                       303         46     28       9.6        60       60             2.5    0.2  12.3     41

Yekaterinburg                1420        181            28.9         28               37     4.5    0.8  34.2     24

TOTALS                                 1392      38      208       818       254     328    31.4    4.5 243.9

Note: *** indicates cities which remained in the project until loan closing in December 2002.
     TA stands for Technical Assistance (studies, training courses, technical tours).




                                                           - 30 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Cost recovery (fare revenue divided by direct                             All but one of the 14 client cities exceeded
operating costs) to be raised to 35% in 1995,                             50% in 1998; the range was 30-111%, and
40% in 1996, 45% in 1997 and 50% by 1998                                  the average was 70.5%. In 2001, the range
(the last target was not a part of the Loan                               was 49-105% and the average was 77.9%.
Agreement)




At the time when this Project was approved, log frame matrices were not in use. Cost recovery was the only
quantitative indicator related to a major development objective and expressed as a dated covenant in the
Loan Agreement.
Output Indicators:
                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Purchase 1,500 diesel-fuel city buses                                     1,392 buses were purchased
Purchase 272 trolley-buses                                                38 trolley-buses were purchased
Rehabilitate 997 buses                                                    818 buses were rehabilitated
Rehabilitate 327 trolley-buses                                            254 trolley-buses were rehabilitated
Rehabilitate 380 tramways                                                 328 tramways were rehabilitated

1End of project




                                                       - 31 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                               Appraisal        Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                                Estimate          Estimate         Appraisal
                       Component                               US$ million       US$ million
New Vehicles                                                     278.30              247.30             96.3
Vehicle Rehabilitation                                            40.90                44.74            66.4
Equipment                                                          8.90                 8.59            45.5
National Spare Parts Program                                      50.00                 0.00               0
Technical Assistance and Training                                 12.90                 8.10            59.3

Total Baseline Cost                                              391.00              308.73
                         Total Project Costs                     391.00              308.73
                  Total Financing Required                       391.00              308.73
Payments by the participating cities of US$61.12 million are included in the actual/latest column.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                          1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB                    2          N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                      Other
1. Works                              0.00            0.00             0.00               0.00         0.00
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                             277.70           0.00             39.90             60.40        378.00
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                           0.00            0.00             10.50              1.80        12.30
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00            0.00             0.70               0.00         0.70
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00            0.00             0.00               0.00         0.00
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00            0.00             0.00               0.00         0.00
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)
   Total                             277.70           0.00             51.10             62.20        391.00
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)




                                                 - 32 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  2. Goods                                207.99              0.00              4.38             43.52            255.89
                                         (207.99)            (0.00)            (4.38)            (0.00)          (212.37)
  3. Services                              15.85              0.00             19.40             17.60            52.85
                                          (15.85)            (0.00)           (19.40)            (0.00)           (35.25)
  4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                               223.84              0.00             23.78             61.12            308.74
                                         (223.84)            (0.00)           (23.78)            (0.00)          (247.62)
  NBF column shows payments by cities.
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
New Vehicles                  223.70       53.10         0.00       207.99        39.31      0.00       93.0      74.0      0.0
Vehicle Rehabilitation        33.60         7.30         0.00       27.15         17.60      0.00       80.8     241.1      0.0
Equipment                      8.80         0.00         0.00        4.38         4.21       0.00       49.8      0.0       0.0
Gas-fueled Buses               1.50         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Spare Parts Program           50.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Technical Assistance          11.20         0.00         1.80        8.10         0.00                  72.3      0.0       0.0

  N.B. In the actual/latest section, the Govt. column has expenditures by cities. This table lacks the actual
  amounts spent for technical assistance from various trust funds.




                                                          - 33 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No economic evaluation was done at the end of the Project. See sections 4.3 and 8 (the fifth lesson).




                                                 - 34 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              March 1992                4    TL - Sr. Operations Officer
                                                Water Specialist
                                                District Heating
                                                Institutions
              June 1992                 4    TL - Sr. Operations Officer
                                                Urban Transport Planner
                                                Mike Buckel
                                                R McGarry
              December 1992             2    McGarry
                                                Municipal Finance Specialist
              July 1993                 5    TL - Sr. Operations Officer
                                                Transport Operations Spec.
                                                Transport Policy Spec.
                                                Municipal Finance Spec.
                                                Privatization Spec.
              September 1993            3    TL - Sr. Operations Officer
                                                Urban Transport Planner
                                                McGarry
              December 1993             2    TL - Financial Analyst
                                                Environment Specialist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              March 1994                2    TL - Financial Analyst
                                                Environment Specialist
              May 1994                12     TL - Financial Analyst
                                                Transport Economist
                                                Transport Policy Specialist
                                                Environment Specialist
                                                Legal Counsel
                                                UPT Operations Specialist
                                                Procurement Specialist
                                                2 Financial Analysts
                                                3 Mechanical Engineers
              October 1994              2    TL - Financial Analyst
                                                Transport Economist
              December 1995             1    TL - Financial Analyst

 Supervision
              June 1996                 2    TL - Financial Analyst               S               S
                                                Vehicle Rehab. Spec.
              November 1996             2    Transport Economist                  S               S
                                                Electric Vehicle Spec.
              May 1997                  3    TL - Transport Economist             S               S
                                                Infrastructure Specialist
                                                Environment Specialist
              November 1997             2    TL - Transport Economist             S               S



                                              - 35 -

                                                    Infrastructure Specialist
               February 1998                2     TL - Transport Economist             S          S
                                                    Infrastructure Spec.
               May 1998                     3     TL - Transport Economist             S          S
                                                    Infrastructure Specialist
                                                    Procurement Specialist
               November 1998                2     TL - Transport Economist             S          U
                                                    Procurement Specialist
               March 1999                   1     TL - Sr. Operations Officer
               December 1999                1     TL - Sr. Operations Officer          U          U
               March 2000                   2     TL - Sr. Operations Officer          S          U
                                                    Procurement Specialist
               July 2000                    4     TL - Sr. Operations Officer          S          U
                                                    Transport Specialist
                                                    Urban Specialist
                                                    Procurement Specialist
               December 2000                4     TL - Sr. Operations Officer          S          S
                                                    Transport Specialist
                                                    Urban Specialist
                                                    Procurement Specialist
               June 2001                    1     TL - Sr. Operations Officer          S          S
               July 2001                    2     Transport Economist
                                                    Urban Specialist
               February 2002                2     TL - Sr. Operations Officer          S          S
                                                    Transport Economist
               June 2002                    3     TL - Sr. Operations Officer          S          S
                                                    2 Transport Economists
               October 2002                 5     TL - Transport Economist             S          S
                                                    Sr. Operations Officer
                                                    3 Transport Economists

 ICR
               February 2002                1     Urban Transport Spec.
               June 2002                    1     Urban Transport Spec.



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                        660
  Supervision
  ICR                                                                         1114
  Total                                                                       1774
Note: Trust Fund contribution to project preparation was $391,730.00 and to project supervision
$695,860.00 a total of $1,087,590.00




                                                  - 36 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

   1.    Russian Federation: Urban Transport Project, Staff Appraisal Report, Report No. 13412-RU,
         The World Bank, Washington, D.C. April 26, 1995.

   2.    Urban Transport Project - Loan Agreement between the Russian Federation and
         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Loan Number 3885-RU, October 6,
         1995.

   3.    Urban Transport Project - Report on the Progress of Implementation, Loan 3885-RU,
         Ministry of Transport of the Russian Federation, October 2002 (Borrower's Completion
         Report).

   4.    Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Russian Federation, Report
         No. 19897-RU, The World Bank, December 1, 1999.

   5.    Russian Federation - A Country Assistance Evaluation, Operations Evaluation Department,
         The World Bank, 2002 (forthcoming).




                                              - 39 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

Two survey forms were sent to 14 cities participating in the project. One survey was for city officials and
the other for public transport company managers. A total of 13 survey responses were received. The
project PIU (Transinvest) used the survey responses in writing the Borrower's Project Completion Report.
This 75 page report, dated October 2002, is available in the project files. The essence of the findings are
summarized in Section 9 of the ICR.

Copies of the two survey questionnaires are attached below.

                              RUSSIA  URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
                                    WORLD BANK LOAN # 3885-RU
        QUESTIONNAIRE FOR 14 CITIES WHICH PARTICIPATED IN THE PROJECT

This questionnaire is for the managers of the municipal/oblast administration.

Name of the City: ______________________________________________
Oblast: _______________________________________________________
City population in the current year: _________________________________
Name, title and address of person who answered the questionnaire:

A.    PUBLIC-SECTOR TRANSPORT COMPANIES IN THE CITY

A.1. List of Companies

Company 1: name_____________________________________________
              type of vehicles operated _____________________________
              legal status (circle one): government department, public enterprise,
              public-owned commercial enterprise, other; _________________
              owned by city or oblast _______________________________
              type of services (circle those which apply)  urban suburban intercity
Company 2: name_____________________________________________
              type of vehicles operated _____________________________
              legal status (circle one): government department, public enterprise,
              public-owned commercial enterprise, other; _________________
              owned by city or oblast _______________________________
              type of services (circle those which apply)  urban suburban intercity
Company 3: name_____________________________________________
              type of vehicles operated _____________________________
              legal status (circle one): government department, public enterprise,
              public-owned commercial enterprise, other; _________________
              owned by city or oblast _______________________________
              type of services (circle those which apply)  urban suburban intercity

A.2. Regulation of Public-sector Companies

How do city authorities manage the public-sector transport companies? Circle one answer:
      through annual budget approval linked with a service agreement?
      through a directly negotiated service contract?


                                                   - 40 -

       through a bidding process resulting in a service contract award?
Please provide additional detail:
_________________________________________________________________

Who sets the passenger fares charged by the companies? ______________________

Are the accounts of transport companies subject to mandatory annual audits and who does the audit?
________________________________________________________

What group of passengers have a right to free (fare-exempt) travel? What proportion of total passengers
are they? Does this fare exemption follow from a law, act, decree or ordinance passed by the Federation,
oblast or city?

What group of passengers have a right to buy reduced fares? What proportion of passengers are these?
Does this fare reduction follow from a law, act, decree or ordinance passed by the Federation, oblast or
city?

What do you think is an appropriate proportion of total operating costs of transport companies to be
covered by fare revenues? (circle one)
10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% above 100%

A.3. Private-owned Transporters

How many private buses operate in the city? ________________________________

Which type of vehicles do private operators use, standard buses, minibuses,
or other vehicle types? ________________________________________________
Of these companies, how many are licensed by the authorities _________________
Who is the licensing authority? city or oblast? (circle one and add comment, if relevant
_______________________________________________________

How are private operators regulated (circle one answer, or add your own): (1) free (unregulated) license;
(2) route contract based on a direct negotiation; (3) route contract based on bidding?
____________________________________________________________________

Who sets the fares or limit fares (circle one of these) charged by private operators? Circle one ar add
another answer: themselves, the city, oblast authorities
___________________________________________________________________

Should private operators be (circle one):           banned           licensedregulated through contracts
encouraged to complement public operators           encouraged to replace public operators

Additional comments on this question: _____________________________________

B.      PARTICIPATION IN THE WORLD BANK-FINANCED PROJECT

In addition to buying and/or rehabilitating vehicles for the transport company, did the city administration
have any other involvement with the World Bank-financed project? If yes, please provide a brief description
and dates in any of the following:


                                                     - 41 -

Did the city administration make any equipment purchases for itself using loan funds?

Have city/oblast managers/staff participated in training: local, in another city in Russia, or abroad?

Was there any participation in conferences, seminars, workshops? Cite place, dates, number and type of
participants?

Wrte there any technical visits to another city or country?

C.    EVALUATION OF EXPERIENCE WITH THE WORLD BANK PROJECT
(Answers: 3 quite positive, 2 positive, 1 somewhat positive, 0 no change, -1 negative, -2 quite negative, -3
seriously negative, na don't know or not relevant)

Are you satisfied with the quality of vehicles that your company received through the World Bank loan?
-3          -2           -1             0            1              2                3        na
Comment? For example, the any particularly good or negative aspects of the new vehicles
____________________________________________________________________
Are you satisfied with the quality of other eqiupment received through the loan?
-3          -2           -1             0            1              2                3        na
Comment?
____________________________________________________________________
Are you satisfied with the process, efficacy and fairness of preparing the World Bank financed project?
-3          -2           -1             0            1              2                3        na
Comment?
____________________________________________________________________
What is your view of the procurement process for the World Bank financed vehicles and equipment?
-3          -2           -1             0            1              2                3        na
Comment? For example, does the WB procurement process result in economical purchases relative to
normal way of procurement in the city?
____________________________________________________________________
Would you prefer another specification for the new vehicles?
-3          -2         -1               0            1              2                3        na
Comment? Suggest any improvement for the specification.
____________________________________________________________________
Would you prefer another way of purchasing vehicles and equipment?
-3          -2         -1               0            1              2                3        na
Comment?
____________________________________________________________________
Has there been an improvement in the productivity of city's transport companies as a result of this project?
-3          -2         -1               0            1              2                3        na
Comment?
____________________________________________________________________
Has there been an improvement in service to passengers as a result of this project?
-3            -2       -1               0            1              2                3        na
Comment?

What is your view of increasing passenger fares towards full cost recovery?



                                                     - 42 -

-3          -2        -1                 0          1              2                 3   na
Comment? For example, what proportion of operating costs do you think should be covered from the
farebox?
____________________________________________________________________

What is your view of the initiative to reduce/eliminate fare exemptions?
-3          -2        -1                 0          1              2                 3   na
Comment?
____________________________________________________________________
Would you like your transport companies to become private-owned?
-3          -2        -1                 0          1              2                 3   na
Comment?
____________________________________________________________________
Should the general public be fully involved in urban transport fare and service setting?
-3          -2        -1                 0          1              2                 3   na
Comment?
____________________________________________________________________

Additional comments:
_____________________________________________________________________




                                                    - 43 -

                              RUSSIA  URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
                                     WORLD BANK LOAN # 3885-RU
                         QUESTIONNAIRE FOR TRANSPORT COMPANIES
                             WHICH PARTICIPATED IN THE PROJECT

This questionnaire is for the managers of city transport companies. It consists of three parts: (A)
operational and financial statistics of the city transport companies during the period 1995-2001; (B) facts
on the involvement in the World Bank-financed Project; and (C) evaluation of experience under the Project.

City: ___________________________________________________
Oblast: _________________________________________________
Company name: __________________________________________
Type of vehicles operated: __________________________________
Length of the route network (km): ____________________________
Name and address of the person filling this questionnaire: _____________________

A.    OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL STATISTICS OF THE PUBLIC TRANSPORT COMPANIES
1995-2001
      Company Operating Statistics:
                                                     1995    1996   1997     1998    1999    2000   2001
      staff (at year's end)
      total fleet (annual average),
      average fleet age (years),
      fleet available for service,
      fleet in daily use,
      network length (km)
      annual vehicle-km operated,
      average commercial speed
      annual passengers,
      % fare exempt*
      % passengers without valid fare*
      fare - single journey (in rubles)
      fare - monthly pass (in rubles)
      waiting time in peak (min)
              *if no accurate data, please estimate

Company Financial Statistics:
                                                     1995    1996   1997     1998    1999    2000   2001
        Wages
        Fuel/electricity
        Other direct costs
        Depreciation
Total costs
        Fare revenue
        Other revenue
        Subsidies from oblast
        Subsidies from the city authorities
Total revenues



                                                      - 44 -

B.    PARTICIPATION IN THE WORLD BANK-FINANCED PROJECT

                                                   1995   1996   1997     1998    1999      2000  2001
Number of new vehicles bought
or received by the company
Of these, how many were
financed from Bank loan?
Type of new vehicles?
____________________________________________________________________
Number of vehicles rehabilitated?

Type of vehicles rehab'd?
____________________________________________________________________
Of these rehabilitated vehicles,
how many were financed from Bank loan?
____________________________________________________________________

Did the company have any other involvement with the World Bank-financed project? If yes, please provide
a brief description and dates in any of the following:

Did you make any spare parts purchases under the project?

Any equipment purchases?

Have company managers/staff participated in training: local, in another city in Russia, or abroad?

Any participation in conferences, seminars, workshops? Cite place, dates, number and type of participants?

Technical visit to another city or country?

Was there a study or direct technical assistance to the company by consultants?

Any other involvement?




                                                    - 45 -

C.    EVALUATION OF EXPERIENCE
(Answers: 3 quite positive, 2 positive, 1 somewhat positive, 0 no change, -1 negative, -2 quite negative, -3
seriously negative, na don't know or not relevant)

Are you satisfied with the quality of vehicles received through the World Bank loan?
-3          -2         -1                0           1              2              3       na
Comment? For example, the any particularly good or negative aspects of the new vehicles
____________________________________________________________________
Are you satisfied with the quality of other eqiupment received through the loan?
-3          -2         -1                0           1              2              3       na
Comment?

Are you satisfied with the process, efficacy and fairness of preparing the World Bank financed project?
-3          -2         -1                0           1              2              3       na
Comment?
____________________________________________________________________
What is your view of the procurement process for the World Bank financed vehicles and equipment?
-3          -2         -1                0           1              2              3       na
Comment? For example, does the WB procurement process result in economical purchases relative to
normal way of procurement in the city?
____________________________________________________________________
Would you prefer another specification for the new vehicles?
-3          -2         -1                0           1              2              3       na
Comment? Suggest any improvement for the specification.
____________________________________________________________________
Would you prefer another way of purchasing vehicles and equipment?
-3          -2         -1                0           1              2              3       na
Comment?
_________________________________________________________________
Has there been an improvement in company's operations as a result of this project?
-3          -2         -1                0           1              2              3       na
Comment?
____________________________________________________________________
Has there been an improvement in service to passengers served by the company as a result of this project?
-3          -2         -1                0           1              2              3       na
Comment?
____________________________________________________________________
What is your view of increasing passenger fares towards full cost recovery?
-3          -2         -1                0           1              2              3       na
Comment? For example, what proportion of operating costs do you think should be covered from the
farebox?
____________________________________________________________________
What is your view of the initiative to reduce/eliminate fare exemptions?
-3          -2         -1                0           1              2              3       na
Comment?
____________________________________________________________________
Would you like your company to become private-owned?
-3          -2         -1                0           1              2              3       na


                                                    - 46 -

Comment?
____________________________________________________________________
What was the best aspect of being a part of the World Bank project?

What was the worst aspect of being a part of a World bank project?

Additional comments:




                                                 - 47 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

A Stakeholder Workshop for Project City Officials was held as part of a Workshop on National Passenger
Transport Reform held Sochi during June 6-7, 2002. Representatives of all 14 cities participating in the
project were invited to share their experiences on the Russia Urban Transport Project. This Workshop was
a follow-up to the surveys sent to these cities (see Annex 9). Six cities participated in the Stakeholder
Workshop (out of the 8 remaining in the Project). Overall this Workshop did not produce any significant
new information that was not already gleaned from earlier discussions with city officials, from the detailed
surveys sent to them, or from the National Passenger Transport Reform Workshop that was held
concurrently. Comments from city officials were positive regarding the role of the Project in maintaining
services and improving company performance. It can be safely concluded that the substantial devaluation
of the Ruble against the dollar denominated sub-loan to the cities -- and the consequent hardship in
repaying the loans -- was the principal negative feature of the project for both those Project cities attending
and not attending the Workshop.

While the principal stakeholders of the Project were the Project cities, the Ministry of Transport and other
Russian cities were also stakeholders in the Project outcomes, particularly with regard to the establishment
of principles and guidelines for advancing urban passenger transport reforms. This was reflected in the
Recommendations of the Sochi Workshop on National Passenger Transport Reform of which the City
Stakeholder Workshop was a part. The recommendations, presented below, cite the positive impact of the
Project in "stabilizing UPT (urban passenger transport) operations and contribut[ing] to a search for new
solutions." The recommendations  developed as a direct result of the research work and consultations
conducted under the Project -- set forth an agreed program for moving forward with UPT reforms.



                            URBAN PASSENGER TRANSPORT REFOPM

Recommendations of the all-Russia seminar with participation of the World Bank experts

1.    Representatives of administrations of the Federation's subjects and Russian cities, Ministry of
Transportation of the Russian Federation, transportation and industrial enterprises, scientific institutions
and World Bank experts discussed at the seminar the current status and outlooks for development of urban
passenger transport (UPT), outcomes of the Urban Transport Project and reform findings and made the
following remarks:

     l      UPT is overcoming a systemic crisis. Strenuous efforts made by cities' administrations and
            enterprises in the recent years stabilized the situation. The Urban Transport Project funded by
            the World Bank had a favorable impact on stabilization of UPT operations too and contributed
            to a search for new solutions. However, the key legal, organizational, financial and investment
            problems still remain unresolved.

     l      Consistent implementation of UPT reforms with a view to building up a regulated
            transportation services market, restructuring municipal enterprises and developing a private
            sector on the fair competition principles will be essential for surmounting the crisis. Many
            Russian cities successfully initiated reform programs, and basic elements of a regulated
            transportation services market are already functioning in practice. At the same time, concerted
            efforts on the part of government and management bodies at all levels, enterprises and
            entrepreneurs, manufacturers of transportation machinery and equipment, professional
            associations, the public at large and the mass media will be required for prompt and efficient



                                                    - 48 -

             removal of certain obstacles to reforms.

     l The urban transport reform guidelines approved by the Board of the Russian Federation Ministry
          of Transportation in July 2001 provided a framework for coordination of all UPT reform
          programs.

     l Federal government and management bodies should more actively participate in coordinating
          efforts and providing assistance and targeted state support aimed at UPT reform implementation.
          The sub-program "Urban Public Transport Reform" formulated within the Federal targeted
          program "Modernization of Russia's Transport System" and initiation of its financing and
          implementation is the first and timely step on this way.

2.    Participants in the seminar approve in general the Open all-Russia UPT reform assistance program
proposed by the Ministry of Transportation of the Russian Federation and the FGU "Transinvest" and
recommend it as an organizational and information platform for voluntary coordination of UPT reform
efforts exerted by all interested organizations and structures.

3.    Participants in the seminar support UPT reform efforts put forth by the Russian Federation Ministry
of Transportation and suggest that those should be focused on resolving the following major problems:

     l removal of legal gaps and inconsistencies in the current federal legislation;
     l rationalization of financing the UPT privileged fare system established at the federal level;
     l establishment of the state support system for renewal of the UPT rolling-stock in the course of
          reforms;
     l assistance in raising off-budget investment and credit resources for UPT, including development
          of proposals for utilization of the World Bank second loan for the Urban Transport Reform
          Project;
     l implementation of a special UPT reform capacity building program for cities' transport
          administrations based on the summarized findings of Russian and foreign cities' advanced
          practices.

4.    Participants in the seminar make the following request to the Ministry of Transportation of the
Russian Federation:

     l to bring to the notice of the Government of the Russian Federation, the Federal Assembly of the
          Russian Federation and the authorities of the Federation's subjects and municipalities findings of
          the discussions pertaining to the Open all-Russia UPT reform assistance program and a necessity
          for an expedient initiation of its implementation;
     l to broadly disseminate seminar materials, including by means of Ministry's and Transinvest's
          web-sites;
     l to invite the Union of Russian Cities and the Eurasian Committee of the International Public
          Transportation Union to participate in implementation of the Open program.

5.    Participants in the seminar give the following recommendations to the authorities of the Federation's
subjects and municipalities:

     l to take part in development and implementation of the Open all-Russia UPT reform assistance
          program coordinated by the Ministry of Transportation of the Russian Federation;
     l to more broadly utilize in practice experience of the Russian and foreign cities which made



                                                     - 49 -

          significant progress in reforming UPT.

6. Participants in the seminar make a proposal to the business community to actively participate in
implementation of the Open all-Russia UPT reform assistance program since it opens up broad
opportunities for building up a new sector of the all-Russia industrial production market and financial,
investment, leasing, consulting and other services.


      Adopted in Sochi
      June 7, 2002




                                                   - 50 -

Additional Annex 10. Selected Operational and Financial Statistics of Public Transport
Companies

                                                             T a b l e 1
            O P E R A T I O N A L F L E E T O F P U B L IC T R A N S P O R T C O M P A N IE S
                                               IN T H E C L IE N T C IT I E S
                                                          ( v e h i c l e s )

                                       1 9 9 5     1 9 9 6      1 9 9 7       1 9 9 8    1 9 9 9   2 0 0 0  2 0 0 1

C h e r e p o v e t s                    1 7 8       2 1 0        2 1 3         2 1 0      1 9 3    1 8 3     1 7 3
K o s t r o m a                          1 9 7       1 9 6        2 4 0         2 5 1      2 4 2    2 2 7     2 0 5
N i z h n i y N o v g o r o d            4 5 4       4 4 7        4 4 2         4 4 4      4 2 8    4 2 3     3 9 1
N o v g o r o d                          1 4 3       1 4 0        1 8 4         1 9 0      1 9 0    1 8 9     1 8 4
O m s k                                1 4 7 0     1 5 0 4      1 4 6 7       1 4 3 0    1 1 2 3    8 7 6   1 0 2 4
P s k o v                                  8 4         8 2          9 0         1 0 1      1 0 3    1 0 3     1 0 0
R o s t o v - o n - D o n                            7 7 4        6 7 5         5 7 7      5 4 3    4 6 9     4 7 4
S a m a r a                            1 2 0 8     1 2 3 0      1 2 8 8       1 2 8 2    1 2 3 3   1 1 5 3  1 0 6 0
S a r a n s k                            1 0 8         8 6        1 0 9         1 0 6      1 0 2       9 3     9 5
S m o l e n s k                          1 7 9       1 7 7        2 0 8         2 1 0      1 9 7    1 9 8     1 9 6
T v e r                                  2 2 8       3 2 0        3 0 6         3 1 7      2 9 7    2 7 3     2 5 6
V o lo g d a                             1 6 5       1 5 8        1 7 4         1 8 1      1 9 8    1 9 5     1 8 9
Y e k a t e r i n b u r g              1 1 1 7     1 0 9 7      1 1 0 4       1 1 2 2    1 0 8 0   1 0 4 0  1 0 1 6




                                                             T a b l e 2
        P A S S E N G E R S C A R R I E D B Y P U B L IC T R A N S P O R T C O M P A N IE S
                                         IN T H E C L IE N T C I T IT E S
                                                           (m illion)

                                       1 9 9 5     1 9 9 6      1 9 9 7       1 9 9 8    1 9 9 9   2 0 0 0  2 0 0 1

C h e r e p o v e t s                      1 9         3 4          2 9          3 0         3 2       4 1     3 0
K o s t r o m a                          1 3 8       1 5 5        1 8 8         1 9 8      1 7 5    1 8 1     1 8 8
N i z h n i y N o v g o r o d            3 6 6       4 3 4        3 8 9         3 9 5      5 3 0    5 4 8     4 5 4
N o v g o r o d                            9 9       1 0 9        1 3 7         1 3 5      1 4 8    1 5 3     1 5 5
O m s k                                  4 6 3       4 7 2        4 9 1         4 5 1      3 5 0    1 7 8     2 8 4
P s k o v                                  7 4         9 9          9 2         1 0 2      1 0 9    1 1 2      9 8
R o s t o v - o n - D o n                            3 8 3        3 6 5         3 3 7      2 7 4    2 5 0     1 8 1
S a m a r a                              7 4 3       7 7 3        5 0 0         5 4 2      6 3 3    6 7 0     6 6 7
S a r a n s k                              3 0         2 5          3 9          6 0         6 1       4 6     4 7
S m o l e n s k                            9 0         9 1          9 3         1 1 6      1 2 6    1 3 0     1 2 7
T v e r                                      4           8              9          9            9        9       8
V o lo g d a                             1 2 4       1 3 4        1 4 8         1 6 1      1 5 5    1 5 5     1 6 4
Y e k a t e r i n b u r g                5 9 5       5 3 7        5 5 5         6 2 3      6 3 8    6 4 4     6 2 6




                                                             T a b l e 3
                   P R O D U C T IV I T Y O F P U B L I C T R A N S P O R T C O M P A N IE S
                                         IN T H E C L IE N T C I T IT E S
                                     ( 0 0 0 p a s s e n g e r s p e r b u s i n s e r v i c e )

                                       1 9 9 5     1 9 9 6      1 9 9 7       1 9 9 8    1 9 9 9   2 0 0 0  2 0 0 1

C h e r e p o v e t s                    1 0 8       1 6 3        1 3 6         1 4 3      1 6 8    2 2 3     1 7 3
K o s t r o m a                          6 9 8       7 9 2        7 8 4         7 8 7      7 2 3    7 9 5     9 1 9
N i z h n i y N o v g o r o d            8 0 6       9 7 1        8 8 0         8 9 0    1 2 3 7   1 2 9 7  1 1 6 3
N o v g o r o d                          6 9 1       7 8 2        7 4 2         7 1 3      7 7 6    8 0 9     8 3 8
O m s k                                  3 1 5       3 1 4        3 3 5         3 1 5      3 1 2    2 0 3     2 7 7
P s k o v                                8 8 6     1 2 1 1      1 0 2 6       1 0 1 1    1 0 6 1   1 0 8 9    9 7 8
R o s t o v - o n - D o n                            4 9 5        5 4 1         5 8 4      5 0 4    5 3 3     3 8 2
S a m a r a                              6 1 5       6 2 9        3 8 8         4 2 3      5 1 3    5 8 0     6 2 9
S a r a n s k                            2 7 3       2 9 4        3 5 9         5 6 4      5 9 5    4 9 1     4 9 1
S m o l e n s k                          5 0 4       5 1 2        4 4 9         5 5 1      6 4 0    6 5 6     6 4 8
V o lo g d a                             7 5 3       8 4 6        8 4 9         8 9 0      7 8 1    7 9 5     8 6 9
Y e k a t e r i n b u r g                5 3 3       4 9 0        5 0 2         5 5 5      5 9 1    6 2 0     6 1 7




                                                                             - 51 -

                                                                 Table 4
           A V E R A G E W A I T I N G T IM E F O R P U B L I C T R A N S P O R T S E R V I C E S
                                             IN T H E C L I E N T C I T I T E S
                                                               ( m i n u t e s )

                                          1 9 9 5       1 9 9 6      1 9 9 7     1 9 9 8  1 9 9 9     2 0 0 0  2 0 0 1

C h e r e p o v e t s                       11.0          6.5          4.5         4.5      4.5         4.5      4.0
K o s t r o m a                             12.2        12.2           7.0         7.4      8.5         9.3    11.2
N i z h n i y N o v g o r o d                 7.0         6.1          6.1         6.4      6.1         6.0      6.9
N o v g o r o d                             10.3        10.4           9.5       10.2     10.4        11.0     11.8
O m s k                                       8.5         9.0          9.0         9.0    10.5        12.5     13.0
P s k o v                                   14.2        13.8         12.6        11.2     11.2        11.2     11.3
R o s t o v - o n - D o n                                 9.0          9.0         9.0      9.0         9.0      9.0
S a r a n s k                                 7.5         7.5          7.5         7.5      7.5         7.5      7.5
T v e r                                     13.1        14.0         13.2        13.7     14.2        15.4     16.1
V o l o g d a                               11.5        11.5         10.8          8.3      8.6         8.6      8.6
Yekaterinburg                               10.1          9.9          9.4       10.1     10.8        10.8     10.8

Note: Actual waiting tim e s e x p e r i e n c e d b y p a s s e n g e r s w o u l d d e p e n d o n t h e
aggregate supply by public-owned and private-owned operators in that city.




                                                                 Table 5
          P A S S E N G E R C O M F O R T F O R P U B L I C T R A N S P O R T C O M P A N IE S
                                             IN T H E C L I E N T C I T I T E S
                                                              (pass/m 2 )

                                          1 9 9 5       1 9 9 6      1 9 9 7     1 9 9 8  1 9 9 9     2 0 0 0  2 0 0 1

C h e r e p o v e t s                       13.0        13.0           7.5         7.5      7.5         8.5      8.5
K o s t r o m a                             13.5        13.5           7.7         8.2      8.8         9.5    10.5
N i z h n i y N o v g o r o d               12.0        12.0         11.0        12.0     11.0          9.0      6.0
N o v g o r o d                               8.0         8.3          7.2         7.3      7.5         8.0      9.0
O m s k                                       8.5         9.0          7.5         6.5      7.5         7.5      7.5
P s k o v                                     8.4         8.0          7.5         6.8      6.9         6.9      7.1
R o s t o v - o n - D o n                                 3.5          3.5         3.5      2.5         2.5      2.5
S a m a r a                                 17.3        17.9           8.5         9.2      8.9         9.6    10.2
S a r a n s k                                 4.5         4.5          4.5         4.5      4.5         4.5      4.5
T v e r                                       8.0         7.9          7.9         7.9      7.8         7.9      8.0
V o l o g d a                                 7.0         7.0          7.0         7.0      5.0         5.0      5.0
Yekaterinburg                                 6.5         6.5          4.7         4.5      5.0         5.0      5.0




                                                                 Table 6
                     C O S T R E C O V E R Y O F P U B L I C T R A N S P O R T C O M P A N I E S
                                             IN T H E C L I E N T C I T I T E S
                                                                    ( % )

                                          1 9 9 5       1 9 9 6      1 9 9 7     1 9 9 8  1 9 9 9     2 0 0 0  2 0 0 1

C h e r e p o v e t s                         77           9 3          8 6         7 8      8 7          8 2     7 4
K o s t r o m a                               42           4 2          5 9         6 5      7 0          7 5     6 9
N i z h n i y N o v g o r o d                 16           2 6          2 9         3 0      4 7          6 2     7 1
N o v g o r o d                               72           6 6          7 7         9 1      8 0          8 1     9 5
O m s k                                       45           5 6          5 9         6 5      8 2          9 7     8 3
P s k o v                                     92           9 8        1 1 0        1 1 0    1 0 5       1 0 2    1 0 5
R o s t o v - o n - D o n                                  4 2          4 2         5 1      6 1          6 3     7 3
S a m a r a                                   28           3 5          4 8         5 2      7 7          7 2     7 0
S a r a n s k                                 23           4 3          6 7         6 8      5 8          5 1     4 9
S m o lensk                                   33           4 9          6 5         6 9      7 2          6 2     8 4
T v e r                                       21           2 5          4 3         5 6      5 5          5 4     5 9
V o l o g d a                                 14           7 4        1 0 2        1 1 1    1 0 7       1 0 5     9 9
Yekaterinburg                                 45           6 1          6 8         7 0      6 2          7 3     8 2

N o t e :
Cost recovery was defined in the Loan Agreement as total revenue, minus
s u b s i d i e s a n d c o m pensation, divided by total operating costs m in u s
depreciation.
T h e t a r g e t s a g r e e d u n d e r t h e l o a n w e r e 3 5 % i n t h e 6 m onths preceding
D e c e m b e r 1 , 1 9 9 5 a n d 4 0 % i n t h e 6 m o n t h s p r e c e d i n g M a r c h 3 1 , 1 9 9 6 .
Further non-contractual targets were 45% b y J u n e 1 9 9 7 a n d 5 0 % b y J u n e 1 9 9 8



                                                                                   - 52 -

                                          Table 7
           OPERATING RATIO OF PUBLIC TRANSPORT COMPANIES
                                 IN THE CLIENT CITIES
                                            (%)

                           1995     1996    1997     1998     1999  2000    2001

Cherepovets                 128      118     130      128      121   120      123
Kostroma                     98      120     109      125      116   111      125
Nizhniy Novgorod            107      111     105      132      114   115      110
Novgorod                    109      121     121       98      121   113      108
Omsk                         81       96      64       84      108   103      109
Pskov                       101      103     106      107      104   102      102
Rostov-on-Don               n.a.     110     128      142      121   108      102
Samara                       97      109     116      106      107   105      104
Saransk                      95      100      97      127      118   104        97
Smolensk                     94      144     117      119      103   109      100
Tver                        175      123     101      135      129   116      106
Vologda                     286      103     104       99       97    93        97
Yekaterinburg                86      103     107      107      115   100        99

Note: Operating ratio is operating costs divided by total revenues.



Source of data in this Annex: statistics provided by the client cities in their responses to the survey carried
out at the end of the Project, and included in raw form in the Borrower's Completion Report (item 3 in
Annex 7, List of Supporting Documents). The data apply only to public-owned urban transport operators.




                                                        - 53 -

Additional Annex 11. A Summary of All-Russia Open Reform Program for Urban Public
Transport

A Summary of All-Russia Open Reform Program for Urban Public Transport

                     All Russia Open Urban Passenger Transport Reform Program
   This is a shortened version of the Program contained in Task 9 Report of the Urban Transport Reform
        Study conducted by a Team from Transinvest on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Transport

General

1.     In a time of rising expectations, Russian urban public transport (UPT) is on the decline. For
passengers, it is declining in terms of availability and quality of service  longer waiting times, and
crowded and shoddy vehicles. For City managers, the system is becoming an ever increasing financial
burden. Conflicting archaic legislation and burdensome policies on concessionary travel, constrain
modernization of management and the introduction of reforms, including a wider role for private sector
operators. For the Federal government, urban passenger transport decline limits mobility and inhibits
economic growth. And car ownership is rising bringing with it visions of the congestion and its costs in
cities abroad.

2.     The way forward is through a far-reaching, innovative Urban Transport Reform Program (the Open
Program), summarized below.

Principles of the Reform

3.     The Open Reform Program is designed to address the key sector issues. It is essentially a framework
of assistance to be provided by the Federal government within which cities will be free to initiate reforms
that will provide for attractive, sustainable UPT. While all cities will benefit from some Federal actions (e.g
reform of Federal legislation), those cities that choose to adopt the philosophy of the program will benefit
more than others.

4.     The guiding principles of the Open Reform Program are:

      l The overall responsibility for UPT belongs to cities.
      l The Federal government should assist cities with UPT reform.
      l UPT Reform will be undertaken voluntarily by the cities.
      l UPT system regulation and organization should be separate from delivering services.
      l A range of competitive arrangements are available to cities.
      l The UPT reform process will take time.


5.     The requirements for a sustainable urban transport system are:

      l A legal framework adequate to conditions of reform, at the federal level, as well as at the level of
           the subjects of Federation and municipal;
      l A system of management for UPT, including appropriate regulatory regimes for a competitive
           market;
      l Transport administrators trained for the new functions of service procurement, monitoring and
           contract enforcement;



                                                    - 54 -

     l UPT operational staff trained for practical use of modern instruments of management;
     l A commercially oriented operations sector whether in public or private ownership;
     l Self-financing operations, including the reproduction of the fixed capital of municipal UPT
          enterprises;
     l Appropriate municipal tariff and fiscal policies for urban transport;
     l Restructuring of system of exemptions at federal and local levels;
     l Integrated management of all modes of urban passenger transport on the basis of the modern
          telecommunications and computers.

The Program

Legal Reform

6.    Rescind, revise or create UPT and related legislation at Federal and local level, to allow cities to
introduce the Open Reform Program and thus manage their UPT to provide acceptable UPT that is
financially viable and self sustaining. In particular, legal reform should cover:

     l A clear definition of UPT responsibilities at all levels;
     l Guidelines and procedures for any Federal and/or subject of the federation support;
     l City powers, responsibilities and rights in managing in managing UPT including regulation and
          the access of operators of all types of ownership to the urban route network;
     l Principles, procedures and tools for recovering the cost of carrying concessionary and exempt
          passengers;
     l Rules for the carriage of passengers including the rights of passengers; and
     l As appropriate, social, environmental and technical standards for UPT.


Institutional Reform

7.    Institutional reform is required mainly at Federal and city level.

8.    Federal

     l Creation of a Center for Urban Public Transport Reform (CUPTR). As its name implies, by
          advising and assisting cities, the Center will act as the catalyst for detailed reform activities.
          Direct assistance will only be provided to cities who adopt the principles of the National Reform
          Program and demonstrate a willingness to carry it out. The Center will (inter alia);

          (i)    initiate the legal reform activities;
          (ii)   collect and disseminate information to the cities on UPT activities abroad and disseminate
                 best UPT practices;
          (iii)  prepare guidelines and sample documentation for regulation and procurement and
                 management of services;
          (iv)   prepare guidelines for municipal operator autonomy.
          (v)    provide technical assistance to the cities on reform activities and particularly on UPT
                 planning;
          (vi)   channel any international and federal support to reform minded cities; and
          (vii) assist with procurement and project management.

     l Creation of a mechanism for managing the finance for incentives to reform (either (v) above or




                                                      - 55 -

        separate.
   l Transfer of the remaining federally owned UPT enterprises to the subjects of the federation and
        cities.
   l Reduce the number of Federally mandated social exemptions and provide full compensation,
        assessed transparently, to operators for carrying exemptions and/or direct or indirect payments to
        the individuals exempted.
   l Require all exempt passengers to carry transport authority issued or approved travel cards.
   l Upgrade Federal certification and licensing systems for UPT vehicles, repairs and for operators.


9.  Municipal

   l Upgrade the municipality UPT management entity (the transport authority) and move towards
        making the authority autonomous under contract to the municipality.
   l Arrange for authority staff to receive training in modern UPT management including planning,
        finance, regulation, operations, procurement of services, contracting, dealing with the private
        sector etc.
   l Separate all service operations from the transport authority.


Operational Reform

10. Federal

   l For a specified periods of time, introduce tax exemptions for UPT operators. These could cover,
        income tax, VAT and local taxes.
   l Improve the means whereby compensation for Federally exempt passengers is calculated and
        transferred to the subjects of the federation. Such compensation should be clearly identified as
        such so that it eventually reaches the transport operators.
   l Provide grants for rehabilitation of electrically powered UPT vehicles (trams and trolley buses)
        to those cities adopting the Open Reform Program and who have prepared acceptable
        economically and financially viable UPT plans. UPT plan preparation should consider the
        economic feasibility of tram and trolley bus operation on a route by route basis.
   l Also consider providing grants for such items as:


        o      equipment for improving the efficiency of UPT regulation, scheduling and engineering;
        o      fare collection systems;
        o      dispatching and monitoring systems;
        o      repair and maintenance of critical city streets;
        o      measures for road traffic management including priority measures for UPT; and
        o      measures to make UPT more attractive.

   l Through the CUPTR, sponsor city pilot programs and projects to demonstrate the feasibility and
        practicality of reform and technical innovations. Note should be taken of the years of testing of
        innovations that have taken place abroad (e.g fare collection systems) and care should be taken
        not to use valuable resources to repeat this testing.

11. Subject of the Federation

   l As above, improve the means whereby compensation for Federal exemptions is calculated and
        these calculations submitted to the Federal government. Amounts received from the Federal


                                                   - 56 -

          government should be clearly identified and passed to the municipality.

12.   Municipal

     l Prepare UPT plans in conjunction with land use plans for the city.                 As appropriate, the
          municipalities should make use of the planning skills and technical assistance of the CUPTR.
     l Restructure the management of all municipal operators to make them autonomous operating
          under business minded boards in accordance with the CUPTR's guidelines .
     l All operators to provide services under contract to the transport authority.
     l Over time, introduce competition for the provision of bus services on all routes. To compete,
          municipal bus operators must be autonomous in accordance with the CUPTR's guidelines. No
          preference to be given to such municipal operators.
     l Reduce fare evasion by upgrading fare collection systems including arranging for the issue or
          purchase of travel cards for exempt passengers.
     l Adopt improved UPT monitoring and control systems, which might eventually be based on
          modern technology.
     l Arrange for the conduct of passenger surveys by an agreed independent entity. This data will
          form the basis and justification for compensation for exemptions.
     l Encourage the involvement of the private sector in the provision of UPT services on all types of
          routes with all types of appropriate vehicles.
     l Improve transport authority management and accounting systems including the introduction of
          the latest MIS systems.

Open Program Administration

13.   The Federal aspects of the Open Program will be administered by the Ministry of Transport.
However, as UPT reform calls for action by other Ministries and Departments, an inter-ministerial group
will be created to ensure coordination and to reach agreement on each participants role. Within the Ministry
of Transport, the Open Program will be administered by the CUPTR.

Open Program Participation

14.   All reform minded cities with a population exceeding 100,000 are eligible to participate in the Open
Program with the exception of Moscow and St. Petersburg. The Program is also open to other UPT related
organizations  government, associations, and private sector (including manufacturers).

15.   Cities wishing to receive direct assistance will need to meet certain criteria covering:

     l financial stability and creditworthiness;
     l availability of an acceptable 5-year UPT development plan;
     l a commitment to the reform Program and its principles;
     l a commitment to staff training in UPT regulation, UPT planning; providing road infrastructure
          and road maintenance;
     l road maintenance programming; and
     l the establishment of department or unit covering transport planning and road traffic management.


Transition Program

16.   It will take at least three years before the reform program produces meaningful benefits. If no


                                                    - 57 -

intermediate action is taken, the ability of cities to provide barely adequate and safe UPT will be in doubt.
A program of transitional support is therefore necessary and should be concentrated on those cities that
have signed up for the Open Program.

17.   Assuming that the Open Program will be adopted by the Federal government and that rationalization
of UPT legislation and exemptions will take place, the immediate priority is access to funds to provide for
some UPT fleet, procurement, rehabilitation and replacement. Financial support should be directed at both
the public and private sector but with the following priorities:

      l Rehabilitation of municipal electric transport;
      l Private sector procurement of regular bus fleets (not mini buses);
      l Rehabilitation of some municipal buses for those cities that intend to make their municipal bus
           operators autonomous; and
      l Improved fare collection (preferably intermediate systems that are portable and can be
           operational within weeks. Smart cards can wait).

18.   To have any effect on the current drastic situation, short term transitional financial assistance needs
to be equally drastic and should include a mix of:

      l Federal interest subsidies on commercial loans for UPT (both public and private sector;
      l Federal grant support (through budget transfers) for municipal fleet rehabilitation (as noted
           above) on a declining basis (autonomy for operators required);
      l Federal, subject of the federation and city program to take over all transport authority and
           municipal operator current debt (autonomy required);
      l Federal subsidy for a percentage of UPT vehicles purchase price (autonomy required);
      l Institute a five year tax holiday for UPT;
      l Providing city guarantees of UPT loans to the private sector;
      l Declaring fuel tax and duty free;
      l Declaring UPT VAT free; and
      l Reducing the duty on imported UPT vehicles.


19.   The transition program should be viewed as a rescue effort, supported at the highest level and
instituted as soon as possible.

Open Program Timing

20.   The Program will need to be implemented in phases. Phase 1 will comprise implementing the
transitional program, setting in place the framework for reform, implementing pilot projects and generating
political, public and ministerial support for the reform process. The duration of Phase 1 will depend on
the political will at all levels and the state of reform already achieved by a particular city. Based on
international experience, overall, Phase 1 is expected to take about three years i.e 2003 to 2005 but could
be less for the more forward looking cities.

21.   The first action will be the setting up of the CUPTR under the patronage of the MoT. A start has
been made on this. Now, the Center needs to be adequately staffed, a detailed work program prepared and
agreed in principle with the Inter-ministerial Group and adequate funding for its work secured. Some of this
funding could be counterpart funds from cities and subjects of the Federation. The CUPTR will then guide
and administer support for the program.




                                                      - 58 -

22. During Phase 1, the following should be achieved.

   l The transition program underway.
   l Reform minded cities "signed up" for the program;
   l Formation of a legal basis for reforms;
   l Harmonization of Federal, subject of the federation and municipal UPT legislation;
   l Rationalization of the exemption policy with full compensation for operators;
   l Development of the reform concept with full discussion by authorities, operators and the public;
   l The upgrading and/or development of finance and investment mechanisms in support of the
       reform process;
   l Pilot projects should be underway or completed with dissemination of progress and results  the
       projects to include institutional and supply of services reform;
   l Major reforms on the lines of the Open Program principles should be underway in some cities;
   l Customer  i.e passenger  surveys should be underway and
   l There should be an established ongoing campaign for public support for UPT reform.


23. During Phase 2, the following should be achieved.

   l Phase 1 activities complete (or nearing completion);
   l Transition program completed;
   l CUPTR fully operational and providing consulting services to cities;
   l Training programs continuing and an established and continuous basis;
   l Pilot projects underway or complete with results fully disseminated;
   l Implementation of the reform program by many cities with all municipal operators autonomous
       and municipal bus operators competing with private firms for all routes;
   l Creation of an interregional market of UPT services with free flow of capital and transport
       resources.




                                                 - 59 -

Additional Annex 12. Letter from Mr. A.V. Kolik, Deputy Minister of Transport

                MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                       Rozhdestvenka, 1, 1, Moscow 109012
                                     Tel.: 926-10-00; fax: 926-90-38; 200-33-56



                                                                                              June 9, 2003
Ms. Eva Molnar
Transport Sector Manager
Infrastructure and Energy
Europe and Central Asia Region


Dear Ms. Molnar,

                 Re: The Urban Transport Project PCR (your letter dated may 12, 2003)

First of all, I would like to congratulate you and your colleagues from the World Bank on the successful
completion of the Urban Transport Project. I fully share your opinion that the Project "provides a solid
basis for a sustainable reform process in the urban transport sector throughout the Russian Federation".
Indeed, the Project impact has gone beyond the 14 participating cities which was to a great extent facilitated
by the special survey undertaken at the final phase of the Project and acting as a major impulse to the
promotion of urban transport reforms in Russia.

From our perspective, the World Bank's Project Completion Report (PCR) kindly furnished to us for
comments quite realistically reflects the whole life of the Project, achievement of the identified objectives
and benefits, the experience gained and the lessons learnt which will be, no doubt, useful for making the
next steps on the way of urban transport reform.

In view of this, as well as taking into account that the PCR was prepared by the Bank staff in consultation
with the Transinvest (the Project Management Entity), there is no need for the MOT to provide detailed
comments as regards paragraph 9 (a) of the PCR - they may be reduced to a minimum (attached).

At the same time, we would request you that in the course of final editing of the PCR text, you take into
account some minor editorial remarks, and correct the inaccuracies and misprints in the Russian version
(attached).

With best wishes,

                                                    Sincerely,

                                                   A.V. Kolik
                                         Deputy Minister of Transport




                                                       - 60 -

                                                                                                 Attachment # 1
                                                                                                  June 9, 2003
                                                                                                from A.V. Kolik,
                                                                                   Deputy Minister of Transport
                                                                                       of the Russian Federation

                                                   Comments
                         from the Ministry of Transport of the Russian Federation
                                       Re: paragraph 9 (a) in the PCR

As estimated by the Ministry of Transport of the Russian Federation, and based on the opinion shared by
all the City Administrations, the Project activities allowed to achieve a noticeable progress in the public
transport performance in the participating cities.

The identified objectives of the Project (first of all in the capacity of an investment project) were met.

The Project acted as a catalyst of urban transport reforms initiated in Russia. The participating cities
demonstrated the possibility to improve the operation management and efficiency through effecting sound
changes and with relatively small investments in the urban transport. It should be noted that many other
Russian cities (which did not participate in the Project) significant progressed in their transport reforms
drawing upon the experience gained under the Project.

In general, Russia has accumulated diverse experience in managing the transport services in the most
complicated financial situation of the 1990-ies, and in many respects, this became possible owning to the
Project.

At the same time, as regards the challenges of integrated urban transport reform in Russia, the Project has
exposed their complexity rather than provided recipes for their solution.

Therefore, at the final phase of the Project, the initially designed Project Components were complemented
with the special survey. It was aimed at developing a strategy for the urban transport development and
follow-up reform in Russia building upon the international experience, best practices from Russian cities,
and, certainly, positive lessons learnt under the Project.

The survey convincingly testified to the effect that integrated structural reform is a must, and that without it
any further investment of budget or loan funds into the urban passenger transport would not be efficient
either economically, or socially.

The survey included the development of the Open Russian Nation-Wide Programme of Urban Transport
Reform Implementation which was launched under the MOT's auspices. This is another important output of
the Project with long-term implications.

The Ministry sets its great hopes on the Project's follow-up distant learning programme funded from grants.
The Ministry deems it necessary to continue the co-operation with World Bank in the field of urban
transport reforms, and to this end, it is possible to prepare and conclude an appropriate framework
agreement.




                                                        - 61 -

- 62 -

