Page  1
                                                              Conformed Copy
                                                        LOAN NUMBER 3885 RU
                               Loan Agreement
                          (Urban Transport Project)
                                   between
                           THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated October 6, 1995
                                                           LOAN NO. 3885 RU
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 6, 1995, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Cities of Cherepovets, Kostroma, Nizhny Novgorod,
Novgorod, Omsk, Pskov, Rostov-on-Don, Samara, Saransk,
Smolensk, Tver, Velikie Luki, Vologda and Yekaterinburg (the
Participating Cities) manifested their intention to participate
in the Project by furnishing the Bank with Declarations of
Commitment, wherein are set forth the obligations of such
Participating Cities in connection with implementation of the
Project;
      (C)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by the
Participating Cities with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
the Participating Cities a portion of the proceeds of the Loan
as provided in this Agreement;
      (D)   Part C of the Project will be carried out by
Autosnabsbyt with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
Autosnabsbyt a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided
in this Agreement; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)    An extraordinary situation shall have
                    arisen under which any further
                    withdrawals under the Loan would be
                    inconsistent with the provisions of
                    Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's
                    Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Autosnabsbyt" means a private spare parts
distribution company established and operating under the laws
of the Russian Federation.
      (b)   "MOT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport.
      (c)   "Participating Cities" mean collectively the cities
of Cherepovets, Kostroma, Nizhny Novgorod, Novgorod, Omsk,
Pskov, Rostov-on-Don, Samara, Saransk, Smolensk, Tver, Velikie
Luki, Vologda and Yekaterinburg; "Participating City" means
each and any such city.
      (d)   "PID" means Project Implementation Directorate
established within the MOT.
      (e)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower
pursuant to the agreement letter dated April 25, 1995 between
the Borrower and the Bank.
      (f)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower, Oblast Governments acting as
guarantors, and  Participating Cities pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements; "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means each and any
such agreement.
      (g)   "Autosnabsbyt Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
Autosnabsbyt pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Autosnabsbyt Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
      (h)   "Transport Companies" means collectively the
companies providing urban transport services within the
administrative boundaries of each Participating City; and which
have been selected as beneficiaries of the Project.
Page  3
      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
      (j)   "UTPCC" means Urban Transport Project Coordinating
Council established within the MOT for coordinating the Project
implementation activities.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of three hundred twenty nine
million dollars ($329,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   Before December 31, 1995, the Borrower shall, for the
purposes of the Project, open and maintain a special deposit
account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)     "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                    ending on the date immediately preceding each
Page  4
                    date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                    Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                    in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                    as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                    expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                    outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                    after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                    or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                    to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                    loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                    1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                    otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                    this Section.
            (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or
                    the second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                    "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."
                    "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such Quarter."
                    "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1  and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end:
            (i)     shall carry out Part B of the Project through
                    the MOT, and Part C of the Project through
                    Autosnabsbyt and MOT, with due diligence and
                    efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
                    engineering, administrative and financial
                    practices and shall provide, promptly as
                    needed, the funds, facilities, services and
                    other resources required for such Parts of the
                    Project;
            (ii)    shall assist the Participating Cities, through
                    the UTPCC and PID, to carry out Part A of the
                    Project; and
Page  5
            (iii)   without limitation or restriction upon
                    any of its other obligations under the Loan
                    Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the
                    Participating Cities to perform all their
                    obligations set forth in the Subsidiary Loan
                    Agreements, shall take or cause to be taken
                    all necessary or appropriate action, including
                    the provision of funds, facilities, services
                    and other resources, to enable the
                    Participating Cities to perform such
                    obligations, and shall not take or permit to
                    be taken any action which would prevent or
                    interfere with such performance.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part B,
through the MOT, and Part C of the Project, through
Autosnabsbyt and MOT, in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds
of the Loan to the Participating Cities under Subsidiary Loan
Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower, the Oblast
Governments acting as guarantors, and the Participating Cities,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including,
without limitation, the terms and conditions set forth in
Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds
of the Loan to Autosnabsbyt under a Autosnabsbyt Subsidiary
Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
Autosnabsbyt, under terms and conditions which shall be
acceptable to the Bank and which shall include, inter alia: (i)
one year maturity; (ii) a floating rate up to the equivalent of
250 basis points above the interest rate determined in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.05 of this
Agreements; (iii) foreign exchange risk borne by Autosnabsbyt;
(iv) spare parts shall be procured in two bidding phases of up
to the equivalent of $25,000,000 each, provided that contracts
for purchasing of spare parts under the second phase shall not
be signed until the proceeds advanced to Autosnabsbyt for the
first phase shall have been fully repaid to the Borrower;  and
(v) Autosnabsbyt to be responsible for the sale of spare parts
provided under Part C of the Project to users on commercial
terms.
      (e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
Subsidiary Loan Agreements and Autosnabsbyt Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive Subsidiary
Loan Agreements and Autosnabsbyt Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the
future operation of the Project;
Page  6
      (b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c) thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking
into account the Bank's comments thereon.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause its
departments or agencies or Participating Cities, responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof to maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the department or
agencies of the Borrower, or Participating Cities responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)     have the records and accounts referred to in
                    paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                    for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                    audited, in accordance with appropriate
                    auditing principles consistently applied, by
                    independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                    in any case not later than six months after
                    the end of each such year, the report of such
                    audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                    such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                    requested; and
            (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning said records and
                    accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
                    shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                    accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                    records and accounts reflecting such
                    expenditures;
            (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                    has received the audit report for the fiscal
                    year in which the last withdrawal from the
                    Loan Account or payment out of the Special
                    Account was made, all records (contracts,
                    orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                    documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to
                    examine such records; and
            (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                    included in the annual audit referred to in
                    paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                    report of such audit contains a separate
                    opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                    statements of expenditure submitted during
                    such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                    and internal controls involved in their
                    preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                    related withdrawals.
Page  7
                                  ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that as a result of events which have occurred after
the date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Participating Cities will be able to perform its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
      Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed and
become  effective in accordance with their respective terms
with respect to at least five Participating Cities; and
      (b)   the Borrower shall have signed a contract with a firm
or firms to provide project management and procurement services
to PID.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or the Deputy
Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Ul. Ilyinka, 9
            103097 Moscow
            Russian Federation
                                            Telex:
                                            112008
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
                    Cable address:          Telex:
Page  8
                    INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
                    Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                          RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                          By /s/ Yuli Vorontsov
                                                  Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                          By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                             Acting Regional Vice President
                                                    Europe and Central Asia
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                 Dollar              to be
      Category                 Equivalent)         Financed
(1)   Equipment (and                             100% of foreign
      associated services),                      expenditures,
      materials and                              100% of local
      supplies                                   expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory)
      (a) for Part A            266,200,000      cost) and 85%
          of the Project                         of local
                                                 expenditures
      (b) for Part B              1,700,000      for other items
           of the Project                        procured locally
      (c) for Part C
           of the Project        50,000,000
(2)   Technical assistance,                      100%
      studies and training
      (a) for Part A(5)           6,250,000
          of the Project
      (b) Others                  4,100,000
(3)   Refunding of                  750,000      Amount due
      Project                                    pursuant to
      Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                    of this Agreement
      TOTAL                     329,000,000
                                ===========
Page  9
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   any payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not to exceed $1,500,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (1)(b) and (2)(b) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after April 15, 1995;
      (b)   any payments made for expenditures under Categories
(1)(a) and (2)(a) to a Participating City unless the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Borrower and such Participating City
has become effective; and
      (c)   any payments made for expenditures under Category
(1)(c) unless the Autosnabsbyt Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been duly signed between the Borrower and Autosnabsbyt and an
opinion of counsel acceptable to the Bank, confirming that it
is legally binding upon Autosnabsbyt, has been furnished to the
Bank.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for goods and services not
exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are:  (i) to preserve
essential urban transport capacities in the Participating
Cities by linking financing of urgently needed replacement
vehicles and spare parts to the implementation of reforms; (ii)
to strengthen the Participating Cities' urban transport sector
institutions so as to improve the efficiency of passenger
transport operations; (iii) to arrest the decline of urban
transport services in cities throughout Russia through the
provision of urgently needed spare parts for transport
vehicles; and (iv) to provide restructuring advice for the
domestic bus industry.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Assistance for Participating Cities
      (1)   Bus and trolleybus fleet replacement in the
Participating Cities, including provision of about 1,500 diesel
fueled buses, and 272 trolleybuses, all with technical
specifications acceptable to the Bank.
      (2)   Rehabilitation of about 1000 buses, 330 trolleybuses,
and 375 trams;
      (3)   Provision of workshop, computers and other equipment
for urban transport companies;
Page  10
      (4)   Provision of fare collection system for the City of
Vologda; and
      (5)   Technical assistance and training program to: (i)
assist the procurement and administration of the Project; (ii)
assist the Transport Companies to implement the vehicle
rehabilitation program; and (iii) assist the Participating
Cities and their Transport Companies to implement the agreed
upon reform programs and improve operational performance.
Part B:     Assistance to MOT
      (1)   Provision of technical assistance to help develop a
private sector strategy for a domestic urban transport vehicle
manufacturing industry;
      (2)   Provision of technical assistance and training to
assist MOT to develop an overall strategy for the urban
transport sector and replicate the Project's policy reforms in
other cities;
      (3)   Assistance in preparing and expanding urban transport
reform to other Russian cities;
      (4)   Provision of 10 natural gas fueled buses with
technical specifications acceptable to the Bank; and
      (5)   Provision of equipment, materials and supplies to PID.
Part C:     National Spare Parts Program
      Provision of spare parts for buses, trolleybuses and trams
for cities throughout the Russian Federation.
                                    * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                                    Annex
               Technical Description of Part A of the Project
__________________________________________________________________
                   Part A(1)   Part A(2)   Part A(3)    Part A(5)
__________________________________________________________________
Cherepovets
Kostroma
Nizhny Novgorod
Novgorod
Omsk
Pskov
Rostov-on-Don
Samara
Saransk
Smolensk
Tver
Velikie Luki
Vologda
Yekaterinburg
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                            Amortization Schedule
                                             Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                      (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
Page  11
      beginning November 1, 2000
      through November 1, 2011                    13,710,000
And on May 1, 2012                                13,670,000
_____________________________
*  The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                           Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                    Premium
                                      The interest rate (expressed
                                      as a percentage per annum)
                                      applicable to the Loan on
                                      the day of prepayment
                                      multiplied by:
Not more than three years                   0.18
      before maturity
More than three years but                   0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                     0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                  0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity
More than 15 years before                   1.00
      maturity
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  12
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     General
      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section as
applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a)   Grouping of Contracts
      Contracts for Part C of the Project shall be procured in
two procurement groups, each group estimated to cost the
equivalent of $25,000,000. No bids shall be invited for the
second procurement group until the condition of the Autosnabsbyt
Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (d),(iv)
of this Agreement shall have been fulfilled.
      (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines  and  Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Limited International Bidding
      Goods, which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a
limited number of suppliers, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $22,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of
the Guidelines.
2.    International Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less
per contract, and $10,000,000 equivalent in aggregate, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less
per contract, and  $6,100,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.    Direct Contracting
      Goods, which are of proprietary nature and costing
$1,900,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  13
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall
have been approved by the Bank, and with the  provisions of said
paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to: (i) all contracts for goods awarded in
accordance with procedures under Part B; and (ii) all contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures under Parts C.1 and C.4,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
4.    Paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall be
modified to the effect that the figure of 20% is hereby
specified for purposes of said paragraph.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants's services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981
(the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports
and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment of
individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exception to prior Bank review
shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single source selection of consulting firms, (c)
to assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank, (d) to amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                           Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall maintain the UTPCC within the MOT which
shall be responsible for Project policy decisions and
coordination with the Participating Cities.
2.    The Borrower shall maintain PID within the MOT which shall
be headed by the Project Director whose qualifications and
experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and which shall be
Page  14
staffed and shall operate in accordance with the guidelines
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank. The PID shall take
overall responsibility for the project implementation.
3.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance
with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and
      (b)   not later than November 1, 1996, shall review with the
Bank the progress made in the implementation of the Project, and
shall take all necessary measures to execute the actions
identified and agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower
during such review.
4.    The Borrower shall trace and assess the effect of fare
exemptions for passengers of the urban transport companies on
the financial viability of urban transport companies, and, based
on the results of such assessment, shall undertake measures,
including those at the federal level, aimed at reducing
exemptions and increasing the cost recovery ratio of urban
transport companies.
                                 SCHEDULE 6
                               Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate
amount of all withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for
deposit into Special Account of an amount or amounts determined
by the Bank to be required to pay for eligible expenditures
during the four months following the date of each such request,
which amount shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Bank shall have determined to be so required.
      (b)   (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                    deposits into the Special Account at such
                    intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
Page  15
                    the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                    documents and other evidence required pursuant
                    to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                    or payments in respect of which replenishment
                    is requested.  On the basis of each such
                    request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                    Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan Account and
                    deposit into the Special Accounts such amount
                    as the Borrower shall have requested and as
                    shall have been shown by said documents and
                    other evidence to have been paid out of the
                    Special Account for eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the
audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant
to section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall be equal the equivalent of twice the amount of
the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by the notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Page  16
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall bemade until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
                                 SCHEDULE 7
        Principal Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements
      The following terms and conditions shall apply for purposes
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements entered into pursuant to
Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement:
Part A:     Terms
1.    The principal amount of each sub-loan to a Participating
City (the Participating City Sub-Loan) shall be denominated and
be the equivalent in dollars (determined as of the date or
respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment
out of the Special Account) of the value of the currency or
currencies so withdrawn or paid on account of goods or services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
2.    The Participating City shall pay interest on the
principal
amount of the Participating City Sub-Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a floating rate up to the
equivalent of 200 basis points above the interest rate
determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.05 of
this Agreement.
3.    The amount of the Participating City Sub-Loan shall be
repaid by the Participating City over a term of fifteen (15)
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years.
Part B:     Obligations to Carry Out the Project Activities
1.     The Participating City shall declare its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out, with the
Borrower's assistance, the activities related to the
Participating City as described in Part A of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for Part A of
the Project.
2.    The Participating City shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Participating City shall not
take or concur in  any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
3.    (a)   The Participating City shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress
Page  17
of Part A of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   The Participating City shall promptly inform the Bank
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the Participating
City of its obligations  under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Part C:     Financial Covenants
1.    (a)   The Participating City shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project
of the departments or agencies of the Participating City
responsible for carrying out Part A of the Project.
      (b)   The Participating City shall:
            (i)     have the records and accounts referred to in
                    paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                    year;
            (ii)    furnish to the Bank and to the Borrower as soon
                    as available, but in any case not later than
                    six months after the end of each such year, the
                    reports containing records and accounts
                    referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section,
                    of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                    shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)   furnish to the Bank and to the Borrower
                    such other information concerning said records
                    and accounts as the Bank shall from time to
                    time reasonably request.
2.    (a)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Participating City shall cause the transport companies to
achieve and maintain a ratio of total revenues to its total
operating expenses of not lower than 35 per cent by December 1,
1995; and 40 percent by March 31, 1996.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)     The term "total revenues" means revenues from
                    all sources related to operations, but
                    excluding subsidies, received by the transport
                    companies during the preceding six months.
            (ii)    The term "total operating expenses" means all
                    expenses related to operations, including
                    administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                    payments in lieu of taxes payments, but
                    excluding provision for depreciation, other
                    non-cash operating charges and interest and
                    other charges on debt, incurred by the
                    transport companies during the preceding six
                    months, and adjusted for inflation.
Part D:     Implementation Conditions
1.    Not later than June 1, 1995, the Participating City shall
appoint the Project Manager with such qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank, who shall be responsible
for administration of the activities to be carried out under
part A of the Project and coordination with the Borrower's
implementing agencies.
2.    The Participating City shall cooperate fully with the MOT
as an executing agency to ensure that the purposes of the
Page  18
Project will be accomplished. For this purpose, the
Participating City shall nominate its representative to the
UTPCC as defined in Section 1.02(j) of this Agreement.
3.    Not later than June 30, 1997, the Participating City shall
carry out a financial and economic review of its transport
system to determine the least cost mode and the least cost type
of vehicles within each mode.
4.    The Participating City shall inform the Bank about any
investment project for its transport system which significantly
affects the financial situation of the Participating City, and
shall inform the Bank of the results of relevant feasibility
studies in order to enable the Bank to provide its opinion
regarding the project.
5.    Not later than June 1, 1996, the Participating City shall
adopt an action plan, reviewed by PID and agreed with the Bank,
to introduce contractual arrangements aiming at improving the
operating efficiencies of transport companies, reducing their
costs and overall level of subsidies.
6.    Not later than December 31, 1995, the Participating City
shall complete divestiture of city bus operations from inter-
city bus operations.
7.    The Participating City shall take all the necessary
measures to support provision of transport services by private
individuals or companies, to encourage wider provision of urban
transport services.
8.    Not later than September 1, 1996, the Participating City
shall prepare plans for entering into contractual arrangements
with entities other than transport companies to provide urban
transport services or auxiliary services.
