Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4997 
Project Name 
Ghana Statistics Development Program 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Information technology (80%);General information and 
communications sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P118585 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GHANA 
Ministry of Finance 
Ghana 
 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ghana Statistical Service 
P.O Box GP 1098 
Ghana 
Tel: 682647, 682657, 682694, 663578 
Fax: 233-21-664304 
Grace.bediako@gmail.com 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
August 18, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 28, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
NA 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Government of Ghana’s development program as outlined in Ghana’s Growth and Poverty Reduction 
Strategy II (GPRS II) emphasizes the need to improve the quality and availability of statistics by 
enhancing the capacity of the National Statistical System (NSS).  It recognizes that reliable and timely 
statistics strengthen the government’s ability to prescribe appropriate policies and assess policy 
effectiveness in critical areas including: macroeconomic policy, population management and gender 
equity. The Government also understands that statistics are a prerequisite for evidence based management 
and good governance. 
 
The growing demand for statistical information in Ghana is due largely in part to the increased emphasis 
on the “evidence based decision making process” and the need to manage for, and demonstrate, results.  
The new administration is placing greater emphasis on results with the creation of a Monitoring and 
Evaluation (M&E) unit in the Office of the President.  The National Development Planning Commission 
(NDPC) uses data from the Ghana Statistical Service (GSS) and Ministries, Departments and Agencies 
(MDAs) as the basis for its Annual Progress Report on GPRS II implementation.  There are also new 
demands for the production of statistics to monitor the New Partnership for African Development 
(NEPAD) and the African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM) alongside other national and sectoral 
programs such as HIV/AIDS, unemployment, access to education and health, and enterprise development.  
The pressure to improve the quality, coverage and availability of existing statistics is thus, increasing 
dramatically. 
Page  2
In recent years there have been some notable statistical achievements, including the successful 
implementation of the 2000 Population and Housing Census and several key household-based surveys, 
however, the NSS has found it hard to meet the increasing demand.  In fact the Ghana Statistical Service 
(GSS), the linchpin of the NSS, is widely perceived as failing to provide the quality and range of statistics 
essential for the efficient planning and monitoring of national development.   
 
Over the past five years, a series of institutional and needs assessments (financed by the World Bank and 
other development partners, particularly DFID), have been conducted which identify a range of critical 
issues affecting the ability of the GSS to fulfill its mandate.   
 
These include:   
 
·
An inadequate legal and policy framework for the coordination, collection, management and 
development of data in Ghana;   
·
A
weak Board with unclear functions and reporting lines; 
·
Vacant deputy Government Statistician positions; 
·
Deterioration in  the terms and conditions of service; the overstaffing of the GSS, with a permanent 
work force much higher than is found in comparable African countries; a low proportion of graduate 
staff; a high turnover rate of academically qualified personnel; and inadequate performance and 
management systems;   
·
Limited technical capacity of staff; 
·
Dilapidated physical infrastructure; 
·
An underdeveloped data program with the development of economic statistics neglected at the expense 
of social (mainly household surveys) statistics; 
·
Limited dissemination of statistical products; and 
·
Constrained financial resources. 
 
To address these issues, the GSS has developed a Corporate Plan and the Ghana Statistical Development 
Plan (GSDP), both of which were launched in November 2008.  The strategies were developed through an 
interactive consultative process involving the government, NGOs, the private sector and development 
partners. The preparation of the GSDP was supported, in part, by a Trust Fund for Statistical Capacity 
Building (TFSCB) grant from the World Bank.   The Corporate plan sets out the strategic framework and 
expected outcomes for the development of the GSS during the period 2009 to 2013.  The GSDP focuses 
on the strategies required to enhance the entire NSS in order to align the country’s statistical system with 
the monitoring and evaluation requirements of national development programs and international 
commitments.  Both plans aim at legal and institutional reform, fostering coordination, collaboration, 
networking and information sharing among data producers and users, and investment in data 
development, human capacity and physical infrastructure.  In fact, the Corporate Plan, together with the 
sector statistics plans, forms the basis of the GSDP. Both Plans have been submitted to Cabinet but due to 
the change in administration, review and endorsement have been delayed. 
 
The GSDP has four key components as set out below to which our program of support will be fully 
aligned. 
 
Component 1. Improving Policy, Regulations and Institutional Framework   
 
This component will focus on improving the effectiveness of statistical laws and the organizational 
structure and management of the statistical system.  This will include 1) legal and institutional reform of 
Page  3
the GSS that promotes statistical production and coordination across the NSS; 2) strengthening the 
capacity of the GSS through both long-term technical assistance and training and the adoption of new 
information and communication technology; 3) development of statistical units in the Ministries, 
Departments and Agencies (MDAs) and Matron Municipality District Assemblies (MMDAs) and 4) 
statistical advocacy by working with MDAs, Parliament, Government, NGOs and international 
organisations and training the media. 
 
Component 2: Statistical Infrastructure 
 
The emphasis will be on improving the statistical infrastructure in order to enhance statistical quality 
through, updating the national sampling frame, compiling the business register, reviewing and updating 
the Geographical Information Systems and applying international standards to improve the quality of 
statistics.  The use of common concepts, standards and classifications in line with international acceptance 
will be promoted to improve the consistency in official statistics. 
 
Component 3: Data Development and Management 
 
This component is focusing on improving the quality of official statistics.  There are six sub-components 
as follows: 
 
·
Improving the timeliness in the release of data through capacity building initiatives of statisticians and 
providers of administrative data to expedite the processing and release of data; 
·
Improving the relevance and appropriateness of data. This will be achieved by conducting user needs 
and satisfaction surveys and studies as well as producing statistics disaggregated at lower levels, to 
enhance use of data;  
·
Improving data analysis and interpretation, through building capacity of staff in this area;  
·
Disseminating and sharing statistical data and information to the general public. This will involve the 
design and implementation of a dissemination policy;  
·
Producing national accounts statistics that are timely, reliable and in line with internationally accepted 
methodology and standards;       
·
Reviewing and updating the framework for price statistics.  
 
Component 4: Investment in Physical Infrastructure and Equipment  
 
The final component focuses on establishing GSS offices in the administrative districts, where they do not 
already exist, and providing adequate office space and essential equipment for all staff including 
statisticians in the MDAs.  It will also ensure that the ICT infrastructure is in place so that all producers of 
official statistics are able to access data and other information in order to facilitate their work.  This will 
require the establishment and networking of MDA databanks including the GSS central databank.  
 
GSDP Cost and Implementation Plan 
 
The GSS is currently developing the detailed implementation plan and budget for the GSDP. The cost of 
the plan is estimated at $125m excluding the recurrent budget and the cost of retrenchment, with a large 
part (66%) required for surveys and censuses. The Government recognizes the importance of statistics and 
backs the GSS reform agenda but the macro-economic situation with large fiscal and
 
balance of payment 
deficits means that insufficient Government resources are available for full implementation.  The 
Government has, however, committed to provide 50% of the $47.9m budget for the 2010 Population and 
Housing Census and usually contributes 30% to the household survey program, as well as the recurrent 
Page  4
costs of GSS, estimated at US$30.3m over 5 years.   DP commitments on the other hand, amount to about 
$13.5m. 
 
The Bank’s support 
 
One large program of support for implementation of the GSDP with three different financial instruments 
(operations) is being recommended to help close the financing gap as follows: 
 
·
A
recipient executed Multi-donor Trust Fund (MDTF) with contributions from the EU and DFID over 
a
three year period (approx. $6m) and the option that DPs may wish to contribute additional resources 
at a later date; 
·
The Statistics for Results Facility Catalytic Fund (SRF-CF).  The first Council meeting on 30 July, 
2009 selected Ghana as one of the first five countries to be invited to apply to the SRF for five years; 
·
An IDA credit for statistics over a 5 year period, to which the Minister of Finance has already 
expressed interest. 
 
These three approaches will be aligned, but different project preparation cycles will be followed in order 
to ensure timely disbursement of each.  This PCN focuses on the MDTF.  It will be complemented by the 
PCNs for the Bank managed IDA loan and SRF 
–CF allocation. 
 
Rationale for B
ank’s involvement 
 
The proposed MDTF contributes to the DPs commitment, as set out in the Ghana Joint Assistance 
Strategy (2007), to support evidence based decision-making through, amongst other initiatives, 
strengthened national statistics.  It has a high chance of being successful as there is a growing demand for 
quality data and the GSS has strong, reform-oriented leadership which has the backing of the 
Government.  A new GSS Board has been appointed and is headed by a well-respected and influential 
Chairman.  Development Partners and Government have recently reconvened the M&E Sector/Theme 
Group which provides a forum for dialogue on M&E and statistics and a means to better harmonize DPs’ 
support.   
 
The WB has provided support to the GSS over several years and has built a strong relationship with the 
Government Statistician and senior management. A DFID-seconded staff (a statistician) has been placed 
in the Ghana World Bank Country Office specifically to lead and coordinate support to statistical capacity 
building through implementation of the Ghana Statistics Development Plan (GSDP) on behalf, and at the 
request, of the DPs.   As such, the WB has the comparative advantage with respect to other DPs in this 
area.  DFID and the EU already have funds available for statistical capacity development and have 
requested that the World Bank manage the resources. The medium term goal is to move towards a pooled 
fund managed by the GSS but until it has enhanced its financial management capacity, the Trust Fund 
mechanism is considered the best option.  The MDTF will provide long term expertise on financial 
management and procurement processes in order to build the capacity and systems within the GSS to 
work towards this medium term goal.    
 
The MDTF is in line with the commitments from the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, stating that  
DPs will base their support on countries’ national development strategies and will work so their actions 
are more harmonized and collectively effective, in addition to strengthening developing countries’ 
national statistical capacity and information systems.  It is also consistent with 1) the Bank’s draft Africa 
Strategy for Statistical Development which has the overall objective to assist Sub-Saharan African 
countries to strengthen and develop their National Statistical System (NSS) through the design and 
implementation of National Strategies for the Development of Statistics; 2) the Bank supported drive 
Page  5
towards managing for Development Results in Africa which has led to an unprecedented increase in the 
need for better statistics as a tool for the country to manage for achieving their development objectives 
and 3) the Reference Regional Strategic Framework (RRSF) which sets out a coherent framework to build 
the capacity to produce better statistics, in line with the Marrakech Action Plan for Statistics. 
 
The MDTF will be linked to a previous Trust Fund for Statistical Capacity Building (TFSCB) grant from 
the World Bank with the Ghana Statistical Service, which financed the development of the Statistical 
Strategy and the institutional assessments.  It will also lay the groundwork for further support through the 
Statistics for Results Facility (SRF) and an IDA credit.   
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
As mentioned in section 1, one large program of support is being recommended, which will be financed 
by three different instruments.  The overarching PDO for this support is to modernize and streamline the 
Ghana National Statistical System to ensure that it is sufficiently equipped in terms of human resources, 
essential tools and infrastructure to produce and disseminate reliable and timely statistics in a cost 
effective manner, in accordance with international standards and in response to user needs.   
 
The main outcome will be improved quality and reliability of statistical information for effective policy 
making and design and the monitoring of programs and policies. 
 
A
programmatic approach to implementation will be carried out with the MDTF first in the sequence of 
support.  The MDTF will contribute to the overall PDO by providing technical and financial support for 
implementation of the GSDP with a focus on the GSS. The specific PDO for the MDTF is to prepare the 
GSS for institutional reform and to equip the GSS for data processing of the 2010 census.   
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The four key areas of support will be: (1) carrying out the necessary ground work for legal and 
institutional reform as well as reviewing and recommending the appropriate staffing needs and levels for 
the implementation of the GSDP; (2) capacity building in terms of training, technical advice and 
upgrading IT equipment; (3) improving the quality and dissemination of statistical products; and (4) part 
funding the data processing solution for the 2010 Population and Housing Census.   
 
The Government and Development Partners have agreed that these are the priority areas for 
implementation and will help prepare the groundwork for future interventions. Retro-active financing 
may be required for component (4). 
 
Specifically, the project will focus on:  
 
(i) Legal and Institutional Reform of the GSS 
 
This component will finance legal and institutional reform at the GSS, This will promote statistical 
production and coordination across the NSS. The services of 7 technical advisors will be secured. These 
will include: (i) a strategic planning and management expert; (ii) Communications expert; (iii) IT 
applications consultant; (iv) Statistics Trainer; (v) Demographer for population estimates and projections; 
(vi)  Procurement advisor; (vii) Human resource and change management expert.  Several short term 
consultants and training programs are also envisaged as well as review of the legal framework, the terms 
and conditions of service and the design of a redeployment and retrenchment strategy.  
 
Page  6
(ii)  Strengthening the Capacity of the GSS 
 
This component will finance strengthening of the capacity of GSS. This will require both long term 
technical assistance and training and the adoption of new information and communication technology.   A 
comprehensive training program will be developed and training provided to senior management as a 
priority.  The SADC online training course will be customized for Ghana’s purposes.  The IT equipment, 
including hardware and software will be upgraded. This will improve the communications and internet 
connections between GSS and the entire NSS. This component will also enhance the Geographical 
Information System.
 
(iii)  Improving the Quality and Dissemination of Statistical Products; 
 
The component will finance three consultants who will work with GSS to improve the quality of its 
statistical outputs and design a dissemination program for the products. The key activities will as follows: 
(i) an international consultant to review the publications and an assessment of quality and scope of 
products and services with a view of aligning these with international best practices. The results will be 
presented in a review workshop; (ii) a consultant to review and redesign the GSS, financial management 
and procurement system and train staff on the new system; (iii) a consultant will also be financed for 2 
weeks per quarter for three years to train staff on the new performance management system.    
 
(iv)   Contributing to the Total Solution for the 2010 Population and Housing Census Data 
Processing Activities. 
 
The component will finance the application of scanning technology to design scannable household 
questionnaires and manuals for the census enumeration. The first sub-component will finance the design 
and layout of the census forms while the second sub-component will finance the purchase of equipment 
required for the scanning technology.  The capacity developed from the process will be applied to data 
processing of upcoming surveys. 
 
The summary budget is provided in Table 1 below. 
 
Table 1:  MDTF indicative budget 
Component 
  US$ 
1. Legal and Institutional Reform 
1,320,017
2. Capacity Building  
1,090,809
3. Quality and dissemination of statistical products 
96,418
4. Data Processing for the 2010 Population and Housing Census 
3,116,000
5. Operating Cost 
62,714
Total 
5,685,958
As mentioned in section 1, the MDTF is one of three financing mechanisms (the SRF-CF and IDA are the 
others) being considered to provide support to statistical capacity development in Ghana.  The MDTF is 
the first in the sequence of support and will focus on component 1 and part of component 3(d).  GSS 
urgently requires support for the Population and Housing Census if it is going to take place as planned in 
2010.  Institutional reform and capacity building are also high priority areas if support to the GSS is to be 
sustained.  As it is ill-advised to carry out institutional reform during a major data collection exercise, 
such as a census, the MDTF purposely supports the preparatory work required for reform so that GSS is 
ready to implement after census.  The MDTF will also focus on upfront activities designed to enhance 
GSS’s capacity to
 ensure that it is sufficiently capable of coordinating the NSS.
 
GSS first requires 
strengthening before it can effectively reach out to the MDAs.  Enhancing collaboration between the GSS 
Page  7
and MDAs and improving the capacity of MDAs in data generation and use will therefore be part of the 
SRF-CF and IDA support. 
 
Development Partner Funding 
 
The EU has committed 
 1.9m available until December 2012 for institutional reform and capacity 
building.  DFID has £3m available from 2009-2011 for the 2010 Population and Housing Census (£2m) 
and wider implementation of the GSDP (£1m).  As both the EU and DFID have requested that the WB 
take the lead on statistics in Ghana and be responsible for administering and monitoring the use of the 
funds, a recipient-executed MDTF will be established.  DFID will initially place £2m in the MDTF.  It 
will make a decision at a later date as to whether the GSS has improved its financial management systems 
sufficiently to manage their outstanding contribution through a pooled fund. 
 
Other Development Partners have expressed interest in providing support to the GSS.  The AfDB and the 
UN family (UNICEF, UNDP and UNFPA) are already providing approximately $395,000 for 2 years and 
$2.5m per year respectively.  The Swiss Embassy and CIDA are considering contributing to the 2010 
Population and Housing Census although no firm commitments have yet been made.  The Development 
Partners are trying to strengthen the coordination of their activities through the newly re-established M&E 
theme group.  
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
[Guideline:  Refer to section 5 of the PCN.  Which safeguard policies might apply to the project 
and in what ways?  What actions might be needed during project preparation to assess 
safeguard issues and prepare to mitigate them?]
 
NO SAFEGUARD POLICIES APPLY 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
Borrower 0 
Free-standing Single Purpose Trust Fund 
6.02 
 
Total 6.02 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: John Y. Ngwafon 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: +234-9-314-5269-75 
Fax: + 
Cell:+234(0)703 741 9287 
DAMA: 5359-276 
Email: Jngwafon@worldbank.org 
Location: Abuja, Nigeria (IBRD) 
Page  8
Contact: Jill Fletcher 
Title: Statistician 
Tel: +233 21 214124;  
Fax: +233 21 227887 
Cell:+233(0)240140643
 
DAMA: 5337-4124 
 Email: JFletcher@worldbank.org 
 
