Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4.w  X ¢4o7 - 14A
Report No. 6906-MA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 14, 1987
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Ringgit (M$)
US$1.00   M$2.50 (July 1987)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
July - June
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB    -    Asian Development Bank
EPC    -    Education Planning Committee
EPU    -    Economic Planning Unit
IMP    -    Industrial Master Plan
IIU    -    International Islamic University
MARA   -    Majlis Amanah Rakayat (Council of Trust for Indigenous People)
MOE    -    Ministry of Education
MOH    -    Ministry of Health
NEP    -    New Economic Policy
PSD    -    Public Service bepartment
UKM    -    Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia (National University of Malaysia)
UM     -    Universiti Malaya (University of Malaya)
UPM    -    Universiti Pertanian Malaysia (University of Agriculture,
Malaysia)
USM    -    Universiti Sains Malaysia (University of Science, Malaysia)
UTM    -    Universiti Teknologi Malaysia (University of Technology, Malaysia)
UUM    -    Universiti Utara Malaysia (University of the North, Malaysia)



FoR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA..................................................    iv
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................................       v
I. THE ECONOMY, HIGHER LEVEL MANPOWER AND UNIVERSITY
DEVELOPMENT ...............         *ee@*hhvo .....*X             1
The Economy and Employment......*......*...................... 1
Sectoral Manpower Demand ,..........   ...... ................ .    1
University Development and the Supply of High-Level
3
Student Supply and Admission Policy ..........................      4
Issues in University Development.............................       5
Government Strategy............. ............ 000000000 ........    10
Experience with Bank Lending.................................      10
Rationale for Bank Involvement...............................      11
II.  THE PROJECT.... o ...............  ....  *....  *........... .    11
Project Objectives and Scope.................................      11
The University of Science, Malaysia--Schools of Engineering..    12
The University of Science, Malaysia--School of
Medical Sciences.......... ............................    13
The National University of Malaysia--Faculty of Engineering..    14
University Development Policies, Planning and Management .....    15
Project Costs and Financing. ............. .. .......... ........    16
Operating Costs.........  *0 * ...... ............... .............. ...........    20
Project Implementation and Management........................    20
Procureme.nt........... ......... ,.......... ................ ..  22
Dsusmns........................................................... . ..  23
Reporting and Audit               ......... ....    24
Benefits and Risks .........................* ............ .    24
III.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........................    24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Malaysia in
June 1987, comprising G. Hunting (technical educator and mission leader),
R. Montague (architect) and B. Clarkson (technical educator, consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoration.



- ii -
Page No.
Tables in Text
Table 1:  Suammary of Project Costs by Component ..................      17
Table 2:  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure....    18
Table 3:  Financing                           Pl an ..................... *   .  19
Table 4:  Status of Project Preparation..........................   21
Table 5:  Project Expenditure by Procurement Category............        23
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Manpower Demand
Taole ':  Estimates of Employment by Main Occupation and Sector, 1985
aind 1995
Table 2: Projected Output of Engineering Graduates, 1986-q5
Table 3: Supply and Demand for Doctors, 1986-95
3. University Development
Table 1: University Development and Enrollments, 1970-85
Table 2: Enrollments in Universities and Other Higher Education
Institutions, 1985 and Projections for 1990
Table 3: University Development Budget Allocations, 1986-90
Chart 1: Structure of Secondary and Higher Education System
Chart 2: Organization Chart for University Management
4. Costs and Finance of University Development and Operations
Table 1:  Unit Development Costs:  Universities in Malaysia, 1966-85
Table 2: Ministry of Education Operating Budget, 1985 and 1986
Table 3: Comparison of Student Unit Operating Costs
Table 4   Niational University of Malaysia, Operating Expenditure by
Major Category, 1982-86
Table 5: University of Science, Malaysia, Operating Expenditure by
Major Category, 1983-85
Table 6: Estimated Annual Direct Cost of Attending University in
Malaysia, 1986/87
5. The Project Universities
Table 1: USM Schools of Engineering: Student Intake (1985-93)
Table 2: USM School of Medical Sciences: Enrollment Projections
(1986/87-1991/92)
Table 3:  UKM:  Degree Intake and Output 1986/87-1994/95
6. University Planning, Management and Financing
7.  Summary of Staff Training Fellowships and Specialist Academic
Consaltant Services
8. Estimated Project Costs
Table 1: Summary of Costs by Component and Category
Table 2: Project Costs by Year and Type of Expenditure



- iii -
Tab1.e 3: Total and Unit Capital Costs of Construction and Unit Areas
for Project Institutions
Table 4: Comparative Costs of Investing in Local University
Development and Overseas Study
9.  Project Implementation Arrangements
Table 1: Status of Bank Review of Civil Works Procurement Activities
Chart 1: Implementation Responsibilities: Showing Main Channels for
Information, Approvals and Finance
Chart 2: Implementation Schedules
10.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
11. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP



- iv -
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Data (1986)
General                                       Males    Females    Total
Population in millions                       8.2        8.0      16.2
GNP per capita in US$                                           1,650
Labo: force in millions                                           6.0
Enrollment in thousands
Primary                                    1,150      1,080     2,230
Secondary                                    670        650     1,320
Higher:
Universities (local)                        25         15        40
Other /a                                    39         30        69
Overseas                                    24         10         34
Education budget allocations
Development budget               Fourth Malaysia Plan        Fifth Malaysia Plan
1981-85 /b                1986-90 /c
-------- M$ million ----------------
Elementary and secondary           2,140                      1,820
Universities                          970                       660
Other higher education /a           1,240                      n.a.
Other                                 130                      n.a.
Operating budget in M$ millions
Elementary and secondary                          2,690
Universities                                        490
Other higher education /a                            360
Other                                                510
/a Includes polytechnics and teacher training institutions.
7i Revised Mid-term Review.
7T  Revised April 1987.



- v -
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumarm
Borrower:         Malaysia
Amount:           US$48e2 million equivalent
Terms:            Repayable in 15 years including 3 years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:    The objectives of the project, which would be the first Bank
loan for university development in Malaysia, are: (a) to
support new irivestment in the expansion of university
facilities and in staff, course and research development to
meet priority manpower needs in the areas of engineering and
medical sciences, and (b) to improve planring and management
of university development and operations. The investments
would be made at two universities: (a) the University of
Science, Malays'ia (USM) to: (i) complete the infrastructure
and first stage of development of the Schools of Engineering
at Sri Iskandar, Perak, for the eventual enrollment of 1,200
students, and (ii) complete the second phase of development
of the School of Medical Sciences at Kubang Kerian,
Kelantan, to integrate the school on one campus and increase
enrollments from 550 to 1,200, and (b) the National
University of Malaysia (UKM) at Bangi, to assist the Faculty
of Engineering and expand enrollments from about 300 to an
eventual 1,200. The engineering courses would be focussed
on specializations relevant to the development of
manufacturing industry which is the key factor in Malaysia's
long-term economic development. The courses in the medical
sciences would specialize in rural and community health in
line with the Government's policy to improve medical
services and the doctor:population ratio in rural areas.
The planning and management component would focus on the
preparation of long-term plans and strategies for university
development for the period after 1990.
Risks:            The main risk is that the Government would be unable to
sustain the development and operating expenditures generated
by the project over the next four years. ThiP hlas been
addressed by limiting the scope of the project, working
within strict budget ceilings and minimizing unit costs.
The strengthening of management would be aimed at improving
efficiency including the better utilization of resources.



- vi -
Estimated Costs:
Local      Foreign    Total
------- US$ million -------
Capital development expenditures
USM:
Schools of Engineering                  11.7         8.7       20.4
School of Medical Sciences              11.9         7.7        19.6
UKMt  Faculty of Engineering                4.4         4.2         8.6
Project-related operating expenditures
Staff training and technical assistance   2.8          25.5        28.3
Research development and other costs        0.3         2.0         2.3
Base Line Cost                          31.1        48.1        79.2
Contingencies
Physical                                    0.6         0.4         1.0
Price increase                              0.1         1.1         1.2
Total Project Cost /a                   31.8        49.6        81.4
Financing Plan:                                   Local      Foreign      Total
-        IUS$ million -------
Government                                   31.8         1.4        33.2
IBRD                                          0.0        48.2        48.2
Total                                   31.8        49.6       81.4
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                         1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
------------- US$ million -----
Annual                            1.1   12.8   20.0   11.2    2.8    0.3
Cumitlative                      1.1   13.9   33.9   45.1   47.9   48.2
/a Includes identifiable taxes and duties estimated at US$0.8 million.
IBRD Map No. 20253



MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I.  THE ECONOMY. HIGHER-LEVEL MANPOWER AN' UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT
The Economy and Employment
1.1       Following nearly two decades of impressive growth, the Malaysian
economy, in common with most world economies, has slowed down. The growth
rate, which averaged about 8% p.a. over the 1970s, fell to only 1% in 1986 and
is expected to be about 1.5% in 1987. The Government is adopting corrective
policies, including a review of public sector enterprises, reductions in
Government capital expenditure through large cuts in the development budgets
allocated under the Fifth Malaysia Plan, 1986-90, and a program of privati-
zation.
1.2       By 1984, manufacturing had overtaken agriculture to become the
largest sector in the Malaysian economy. The average growth rate for manufac-
turing over the 1981-85 period was nearly 5% p.a. Government medium and long-
term policies envisage the manufacturing sector continuing to make a major
contribution to the economy and, based on the I:idustrial Master Plan (IMP),
growing at abcut 6% p.a. with significant expansion of export-oriented manu-
facture. The electrical, electronics and agro-processing sub-sectors have
already recovered and show growth rates well above the target. However, to
achieve the targets across the manufacturing sector as a whole it will be
necessary to improve labor productivity since Malaysia has higher labor costs
than neighboring countries such as Thailand, Indonesia and India and lower
productivity than Korea and Taiwan. The size and skills-level of the labor
force must be improved, and the proportion of higher-level manpower,
especially engineers and managers, increased relative to other workers. The
Government's policy will be to rely heavily on the private sector for expan-
sion of industry, while its role will be to provide policy adjustments and
incentives, reorient and improve the supply of engineers and technicians,
encourage research, design and development and support improved marketing.
Sectoral Manpower Demand
1.3       The Malaysian Government has moved away from reliance on long-term
manpower forecasting in its economic and manpower planning. Instead, the
Government is adopting training and employment targets, improving the labor
market information and signalling systems, and identifying and monitoring
critical manpower issues. The Economic Planning Unit (EPU) of the Prime
Minister's Department has been given responsibility for the coordination and
monitoring of manpower planning. Regular consultation has been established
between the central government agencies, individual private sector firms,
industrial/professional associations and training institutions.
1.4       The priority manpower needs, identified in the Fifth Malaysia Plan,
are for the engineers, technicians and managers for the development of



- 2 -
manufacturing industry; applied scientists; and doctors and teachers with
selected specialist skills.
1.5       Engineers and Technicians.  There are three critical manpower issues
relating to engineers and technicians:
(a) lack of research and development personnel;
(b) lack of designers and managers of manufacturing and production
processes; and
(c) need to improve labor productivity.
1.6       The targets for engineers and senior technicians required for the
IMP are based on the planned growth of each sub-sector of manufacturing
industry assuming an average annual growth in productivity of about 8% and an
improvement in the skills-mix of the manufacturing workforce, including an
increase in the average ratio of engineers and technicians from the present
low 2% to 8% by 1995. In the IMP it is estimated that the numbers of
engineers and technicians employed in the manufacturing sector will grow at an
average annual rate of 3,500 over the next decade, with an increase of the
same order in the non-manufacturing sector (Annex 2, Table 1). The IMP,
including its manpower aspects, is being closely reviewed by the Government,
but although industrialists and senior members of the engineering profession
are of the opinion that the IMP overestimates the likely employment prospects
in manufacturing in the short term, there is a consensus that the long-term
demand for industrially-oriented engineers will considerably exceed the
present output of fewer than 1,000 p.a. of all types of engineering graduates
from the Malaysian universities. Moreover, the majority of present graduates
are civil engineers. There is an inadequate supply of mechanical, electrical
and production engineers suitable for employment in the design, development,
production and marketing operations of the types of export-oriented manufac-
turing industry on which the Government is relying for long-term growth of the
economy; more than 80% of engineers presently employed in manufacturing
industry have been trained overseas. The total expansion of university
engineering places proposed under the Fifth Plan would provide an output of
about 2,500 engineering graduates p.a. by 1995, which together with a supply
of graduates from overseas of about 1,500 and an estimated output of about
2,500 senior technicians p.a. would be roughly in line with overall targets
(Annex 2, Table 2).
1.7       Doctors.  One of the objectives of the Fifth Malaysia Plan is to
increase the supply of doctors to improve the doctor:population ratio to
1:2,000 compared with the current ratio of about 1:2,650. On the basis of the
projected cutput from the three Malaysian medical schools, including the
proposed expansion of the University of Science, Malaysia, School of Medical
Sciences, and an estimated 200 returning annually from overseas training, the
doctor:population ratio would improve to about 1:2,200 by 1995 (Annex 2,
Table 3). There is also a large regional disparity in the availability of
doctors and other health services. For example, the number of doctors per
10,000 population in 1985 varied from 10.2 in the Federal Territory of Kuala
Lumpur to 0.9 in Kelantan, with an average of 3.2. The Covernment's policy is



to remove such disparities by improving services in the States where there are
deficiencies, particularly in rural areas. This will require doctors and
other health manpower to be trained and motivated to work in rural and
community health.
1.8       Responsibility for training medical support staff rests with the
Ministry of Health (MOH), which has been assisted through Asian Development
Bank (ADB) loan projects. The MOH has adequate training facilities for most
types of support staff to provide the supply required to fill existing vacan-
cies and meet targets over the period up to 1995. In the case of nurses, for
example, the deficiency is expected to be only about 5% by 1990.
1.9       The Government is addressing the issue of financing health services,
following a major study completed in 1986, by a detailed examination of the
feasibility of merging existing insurance schemes, to establish an improved
national health insurance scheme to pay for a larger share of the cost of
medical services and reduce the burden on the Government's operating budget
while expanding the system to meet the targets for an improvement in services.
1.10      Craduate Unemployment.  Unemployment among graduates has grown over
the past few years because of the slow-down in the economy, and is now
estimated to exceed 4,000. A Cabinet committee has been formed to tackle the
problem, chaired by the Minister of Education. Most of the unemployment is
suffered by arts and general studies graduates and, in technical fields, by
civil engineets. University courses are therefore being restructured to make
them more responsive to the labor market. Training programs have been
introduced for unemployed graduates and other support provided to encourage
self-employment. A double deduction tax scheme covering training costs has
been introduced in the manufacturing sector with good response, particularly
from the electronics firms. industry is also employing more graduates as
their salary expectations have moderated.
University Development and the Supply of High-Level Manpower
1.11      Background.  There are seven universities in Malaysia, the number
has grown from one in 1969 and from five in 1982 (Annex 3, Table 1). The
first university, the Universiti Malaya (University of Malaya-UM) was
established in 1957. This was followed by the Universiti Sains Malaysia
(University of Science, Malaysia-USM) in 1969, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia
(National University of Malaysia -UKM) in 1970, Universiti Pertanian Malaysia
(Agricultural University, Malaysia-UPM) in 1971 and Universiti Teknologi
Malaysia (University of Technology, Malaysia-UTM) in 1972. During the past
four years, two more universities have been added--the International Islamic
University (IIU) in 1982 and Universiti Utara Malaysia (University of the
North, Malaysia-UUM) in 1983. During the 15-year period 1970-1985, university
enrollment increased from 8,500 to 33,000 (Annex 3, Table 1). But despite
this rapid growth, the higher education enrollment ratio for degree courses
remains very low at about 4% (7% if overseas degree students are included).
This compares unfavorably with Korea (22%) and the Philippines (21%) and is
well below the average of about 14% ror upper-middle income countries. The
demand for admission to higher education is very high, but because of the
shortage of places, only about 25% of qualified applicants can enter higher



-4-
education, either locally or overseas. Enrollment in upper secondary
education is planned to expand by 20% over the Fifth Plan period, and even if
the planned expansion of higher education is fully implemented, the
progression rate will sti'Ll rise to only about 28%. On the basis of relative
size of intake, there is, therefore, clear justification for university
expansion in Malaysia.
1.12      Under the Fifth Plan, university enrollment is projected to increase
to about 50,000 by 1990, an increase of 17,000, or 50%, over the 1985/86
figure (Annex 3, Table 2). Enrollment at UKM is projected to increase from
8,200 in 1985 to 9,800 in 1990, and at USM (including off-campus students)
from 7,100 to 12,000. Within the growth there will be major changes in
subject emphasis: in line with the IMP, intake into engineering is expected
to double during the five-year period, while the intake into arts and pure
science will fall by 20%. The universities will be required to achieve these
net increases in enrollments by more effective utilization of existing facili-
ties.
1.13      The Government has cut drastically the budget allocation for univer-
sity development under the Fifth Malaysia Plan. Compared with an original
planned allocation of about M$1,400 million, the present committed budget is
only about M$660 million. The allocations by university are shown in Annex 3,
Table 3. The cuts include deferring most of the new campus developments and
cuts in new scholarships for overseas study. The new developments which have
been retained in the plan have been identified by the Government as
priorities--in line with manpower needs.
1.14      There is a rapidly growing system of links between private colleges
in Malaysia and universities in Britain, Australia and the USA under which a
two-year preparatory course in Maiuysia is followed by a two-year degree
course overseas.
Student Supply and Admission Policy
1.15      The expansion and improvement of primary and secondary education
provide an adequate base for higher education. With virtual universalization
of primary education and about 1.3 million students enrolled in secondary
schools, representing 72% of the 12-17 age group, access to and equity in,
educational opportunities have improved and resulted in adequate numbers of
well-qualified applicants for post-secondary education places presently
available. In addition, the new curricula introduced in all primary grades in
1982 and which will be introduced in the first secondary grade in 1988,
reinforce knowledge in basic subjects and acquisition of diversified skills
relevant to local environment, modern life and economy, and surrounding
community. This is expected to provide a more appropriate preparation for
admission to higher education, particularly within local institutions which
are being developed.
1.16      There is a national university admission scheme with selection based
on academic qualification and, because of the intense competition for
entrance, the standard of all entrants is well above the entry requirement.
In line with the objectives of the New Economic Policy (NEP), the Government



- 5 -
has, since 1971, also sought to increase the proportion of indigenous
population entering higher education, particularly in science, engineering and
professional courses. It has approached this by improving access to secondary
education and by the adoption of targets for the overall proportion of
indigenous population entering university. Consistent with NEP objectives,
the target for indigenous university entrants overall was set initially at 75Z
in order to compensate for their low participation in university in the 1960s
and 70s, for example, it was only 12% in 1969. The proportion has been
adjusted annually and since 1984 has been stabilized at 55%, which is lower
than the proportion of indigenous people in the total population. In
engineering and medicine, a significant proportion of students enter via the
matriculation programs (Annex 3, Chart 1) which were set up to provide less
priviledged students, particularly from rural areas, with the chance of
preparation for university entrance. The performance of matriculation
students is monitored by the Ministry of Education (MOE) and the universities,
and improvements have been made in the program and in selection in order to
reduce wastage. The quality of degree programs is high, assisted by a well-
established system of external examiners. The overall wastage rate is low,
for example at the School of Medical Sciences at USM the overall wastage rate
of the first student intake was less than 2% and the average time taken to
graduate was 10.2 semesters compared with the minimum of 10 The Government's
intention is to maintain the current satisfactory student admission policy in
respect of academic requirements and planned overall ethnic distribution.
1.17      Enrollment of Women.  Female enrollment in universities and equiva-
lent institutions represented 43% of total enrollment in 1986. There is no
discrimination with respect to the sex of applicants and the proportion of
females in university enrollments has increased, due mainly to their improved
access to secondary education. Female enrollments in university would
continue to be monitored and policy on female enrollment considered as part of
long-term strategy and planning.
Issues in University Development
1.18      The issues in university development in Malaysia which ara of main
concern to the Government are: (a) deficiencies in external efficiency,
especially inadequate numbers of places in relation to social and manpower
needs, and in some instances inadequate orientation of teaching and research
to the needs of the economy; (b) deficiencies in internal efficiency, notably
under-utilization of physical facilities, the relatively high capital cost of
establishing new sub-campuses and a lack of experienced staff in key areas;
and (c) planning, management and financial aspects, including the need for
improved planning and management and for increased cost-recovery to reduce the
cost to the Government of university development and operation. The
Government is taking remedial action to rectify these discrepancies.
1.19      External Efficiency.  In the light of Malaysia's long-term technical
and specialist manpower needs, particularly for industrial development, which
cannot be met by the existing supply of graduates from local universities,
university enrollments are being increased, and course content, teaching and
examining methods and research revised to improve their relevance to indus-
trial and other employment needs. Engineering courses in particular are being



- 6 -
reoriented to cover topics, methods and approaches related to modern manufac-
turing industry. The very low enrollment ratio in degree courses of about 4%,
the high demand which results in only 25% of qualified applicants gaining
admission to higher education, and the large number of students who have to go
overseas for higher education also are symptoms of the inadequate capacity of
the university system. The planned expansion of the universities, with
emphasis on engineering and applied subjects, is therefore consistent with the
long-term needs of the economy.
1.20      The universities also have a key role to play in the development of
relevant post-graduate programs and applied research to support industrial
development. Post-graduate courses and research relevant to local needs will
also be justified in other fields. For example, in the case of USM's School
of Medical Sciences, the community and rural health orientation of the degree
and diploma courses should be supported by the development of research and
post-graduate courses directed to rural and preventative health issues. The
numbers of post-graduates and research centers should, however, be restricted
in order to concentrate scarce resources.
1.21      Internal Efficiency.  Space standards for the design of university
facilities are prescribed and monitored by EPU. This approach is generally
satisfactory, but it does not involve routine analysis of the proposed utili-
zation rates of the physical facilities, and from observation, the utilization
rates in the past have been below the norm for similar institutions in other
countries, for example, laboratory utilization has been below 50%. In the
light of sharply reduced budgetst accommodation schedules for the new
university buildings have been reduced, resulting in improved utilization
rates. The Government is also requiring significant improvements in use of
existing facilities of all universities over the next few years in order to
implement plans to expand enrollments with only minimal investment in new
buildings.
1.22      A number of university subcampuses have been established during the
past few years in order to encourage and support regional development.
Although this strategy is valid from the point of view of regional develop-
ment, it also has disadvantages: (a) development costs are higher than those
of expanding existing campuses, particularly when extensive infrastructure has
to be provided; (b) the operating costs of running two or more campuses are
normally higher than those of one large campus; and (c) separation of
faculties weakens interdisciplinary teaching and research. New subcampuses
would be developed in the future only when justified on economic and educa-
tional grounds compared with the expansion of existing campuses.
1.23      The rapid development of the university system has created heavy
demands for staff. A fairly high proportion of senior university posts are
vacant (20% of posts at USM) either because of shortages of staff with
required post-graduate qualifications and experience or staff absences on
overseas training. Of the staff in post, the proportion of full professors to
total staff is relatively low and the staff, particularly in engineering, is
relatively inexperienced. Staff development and the implementation of
vigorous programs of recruitment and training of new staff are critical
factors in future university development. During the period of the Fifth



Plan, the planned increase in enrollment will require about 1,500 to 2,000
additional university teachers, many of whom will need additional training.
In general, the status of university teachers in Malaysia is high and salaries
compare well with jobs requiring similar qualifications in the public and
private sectors,   The supply of potential university staff is therefore
expected to be adequate. Sufficient funds have been allocated within annual
operating budgets in recent years for overseas fellowships for university
staff. There was a reduction in the number of new fellowships for 1987 to 160
from the normal 400 available each year, but the Public Service Department
(PSD) is proposing that the number be restored to 400 for 1988. Overseas
training, however, is expensive and there is also a diminishing availability
of places in overseas institutions for good post-graduate training, especially
in medicine. Post-graduate studies and research should, therefore, be
expanded in local universities on a selective basis, particularly in engineer-
ing and medicine, and local scholarships should be made available. In line
with this policy, MOH has decided that from 1987, 70% of its sponsorship of
specialist post-graduate medical training will be for study in Malaysia. As a
short-term measure, experienced expatriate visiting staff will also be
required to assist in the development of new post-graduate courses. The links
which the USM Schools of Engineering and Medical Sciences are setting up with
similar departments in other countries, including the United Kingdom and
Australia, should be continued and expanded to exchange staff and experience
and to facilitate staff training and course and research development.
1.24      University Planning and Management.  The universities are largely
autonomous and operate under the overall supervision of the MOE, with control
of key aspects of their funding by EPU, Treasury and the PSD. All programs
and budget proposals are reviewed by the MOE's Higher Education, Finance and
Development and Supplies Divisions. Development budget allocations under the
five-year plans are determined by EPU; annual allocations are made by Treasury
to the universities in quarterly installments through the MOE Finance Division
in accordance with the annual programs agreed with MOE. The Treasury allo-
cates the annual operating budget, based on the universities' proposals after
review by MOE.
1.25      The main poli:y body for all aspects of education is the Education
Planning Committee (EPC). Detailed proposals for university development are
reviewed by a Higher Education Subcommittee of the EPC, which comprises the
Deputy Secretary Generals, Deputy Director Generals and heads of the main
units of MOE concerned with higher education. The Subcommittee is serviced by
the Higher Education Division. A University Vice-Chancellors' Conference
chaired by the Minister of Education meets two or three times a year and is
the main forum for discussion of proposed policies and for the MOE to provide
guidance to the universities on government policy. In addition to the Vice-
Chancellors, the mewhership includes the MOE's Secretary General and Director
General and their Deputies and, as appropriate, representatives of the EPU and
Treasury. The Higher Education Division also provides the secretariat for the
Conference. Each university has its own Senate and Council which determine
respectively, academic policy and finance and development policies. The main
bodies are shown in Annex 3, Chart 2.



- 8 -
1.26      While there is coordination of university organization and
management at central government and university levels, there is need for
strengthening the machinery for long-term planning and management and
improving procedures for the allocation of resources among universities for
operations and development, especially to prevent proliferation of courses
with small enrollments. Criteria and procedures for the allocation and
monitoring of use of resources within each university also need to be
improved. This will require the design and use of performance indicators--
both for teaching and for research. The Higher Education Division has a key
role in guiding university development, and its staffing and capacity needs to
be strengthened as the machinery for improved planning and management is
designed and implemented. There will also be a need for the expansion of
relevant management training for university administrators.
1.27      Costs and Finance.  The Government is concerned about the sustain-
ability of university expenditures, and is seeking ways to reduce costs and
increase cost-sharing while continuing to meet social policy and economic
development objectives. The issues and steps being taken, particularly with
regard to development expenditure, operational costs and student scholarships
and loans are described in the following paragraphs.
1.28      Development Expenditure.  University expansion since 1970 has ac-
counted for a relatively large share of the MOE's development budget. In the
Fourth Plan period, 1981-85, the allocation of about M$1,000 million for uni-
versity development represented about 26% of the total education development
budget. The unit capital development costs of the universities increased sig-
nificantly over the period to 1985. Based on the enrollments and expenditures
reported in the five-year plans, the estimated average unit cost of a univer-
sity student place increased from about M$21,000 for the period to 1980, to
M$31,000 for the period to 1985, at constant 1985 prices (Annex 4, Table 1).
This increasing cost was partly due to the increasing proportion of engineer-
ing and applied science courses, better equipment, and more research. In 1986
the Government decided that it could not afford to continue university expan-
sion at increasing unit cost, and the university development budget in the
Fifth Plan was cut. Unit capital cost will in future be the main criterion in
decisions on long-term university development.
1.29      Operating Costs.  The operating budget for the universities accounts
for about 12% of the MOE total operating budget (Annex 4, Table 2). Current
student unit operating costs are M$13,900 p.a. at UKM and M$12,200 at USM.
However, as the universities have expanded and enrollments have grown over the
past five years, student unit operating costs at constant prices have
fallen. At USM, for example, student unit operating costs, in constant (1980)
prices, fell from M$14,100 in 1981/82 to M$9,700 in 1986/87 (Annex 4,
Table 3). Unit operating costs also vary widely between disciplines: the
unit recurrent cost for medicine was about M$27,500 in 1985, including the
expenses of running the teaching hospital. The breakdown of operating budgets
for UKM and USM shows that salaries account for about two-thirds of the costs
(Annex 4, Tables 4 and 5).  Expansion of the newer universities should reduce
operating costs through economies of scale. The two factors which would
militate against this are the introduction of new specialized undergraduate
and post-graduate courses with small enrollments, and the developm2nt of new



- 9 -
small campuses of existing universities. The Government and universities are
giving attention to achieving savings through greater cost effectiveness and
more efficient use of facilities. The MOE also imposed a moratorium on the
opening of new degree courses in 1986 as a first step to the elimination of
small uneconomic courses.
1.30      Student Scholarships and Loans.  A large proportion of existing
domestic and overseas university students are government-sponsored and receive
scholarships or loans covering most of the costs of university study (Annex 4,
Table 6). The scholarship program encourages students to specialize in fields
of study which are important from the Government's manpower perspective, and
it enables talented students from poor backgrounds to pursue a university
education. However, the cost to the Government has been high; for example, in
1986 the estimated cost in foreign exchange of students overseas was about
US$500 million of which the Government's share was about US$200 million. In
the light of budget constraints, the PSD has cut to about 20% the number if
new scholarships awarded for 1987 and expanded the existing loan schemes with
the aim of providing the balance of 80% of its support in the form of loans.
The scholarships are being granted mainly for students of medicine and for
overseas study of engineering and technology. Loans are being granted mainly
for local study, they are interest free, and engineering graduates achievin
high performance will be required to pay back only 25% of the loan.  MARA
has been providing loans for overseas and local study since 1966. It is
currently collecting about M$15 million p.a. in repayments from about 10,000
graduates and reports low overheads in the collection, which can be made
through deduction from salary or by direct payment. Since 1985, all MARA
student sponsorship has been in the form of loans but for excellent
performance, achieved by 15-20% of graduates, the repayments are waived. All
loans are interest-free. In the medium- and longer-term, savings will also be
made through reductions in the proportion of government-sponsored students
sent overseas since the annual unit cost of study in an overseas university is
neariy double the annualized development and operating cost of providing new
places in Malaysian universities (Annex 8, Table 4).
1.31      Government sponsorship has been accompanied by bonding to government
service for some years to ensure a supply of qualified manpower for the public
service. However, bonding arrangements have inhibited the supply of manpower
for private industry and have confirmed parents' and students' preferences for
careers in government service. The Government's bonding schemes are no longer
relevant except for medical graduates and they have been relaxed. Indeed
graduates are being positively encouraged to seek employment in the private
sector or to set up their own enterprises.
1.32      Tuition Fees and Cost-sharing.  Tuition fees in domestic
universities are currently very low and account for less than 5% of university
operating costs. Hence, Government is directly responsible for a large
proportion of the costs of university education through its development
budgets, university grants for operating costs and student scholarships and
1/ Council of Trust for Indigenous Peoples (Majlis Amanah Rakayat).



- 10 -
loans. The Government has taken a significant step in cost-recovery by the
partial replacement of scholarships by loans and is reviewing other ways of
improving cost-sharing, including a possible increase in the level of tuition
fees.
Government Strategy
1.33      The Government is adopting a sound strategy for the immediate and
long-term development of higher education through implementation of the
following policies:
(a) increasing university enrollments through more efficient utilization
of facilities;
(b) following a moratorium on the introduction of new courses in 1986,
strengthening control by MOE of the introduction of new courses;
(c) shifting emphasis towards engineering, technology and applied
studies programs in line with the IMP;
(d) continuing to give priority to university staff for training
fellowships;
(e) improving cost-sharing, e.g., by cutting drastically government
scholarships for both home and overseas study and changing support
to loans; and
(f) preparing long-term plans and strategies for university development
and strengthening university management.
A framewo,rk has been established for implementation of these policies
(Annex 6, Table 1).
Experience with Bank Lending
1.34      The Bank has sunported primary and secondary educatiLin, teacher
training, technical education at secondary and post-secondary levels and
training of administrators through eight projects, five of which have been
completedt  OED audit and project completion reports on the first four
projects - concluded that the projects had been implemented successfully but
with delays. The lessons, which related primarily to the need to strengthen
project management and acquire sites at an early stage, were incorporated in
the design of later projects. The fifth project (Loan 1657-MA) was completed
on time. The sixth and seventh projects (Loans 2145-MA and 2601-MA) are
assisting the expansion of (a) the polytechnic system to provide certificate
level technicians, and (b) skills training facilities. The eighth project
(Loan 2685-MA) is a sector loan supporting primary and secondary education
2/   For Loan 599-MA, PPAR No. 2520; Loan 810-MA, PPAR No. 4471; Loan 974-MA,
PPAR No. 6280; and 1329-MA, PPAR No. 6499.



- 11 -
development under the Fifth Plan. The sixth, seventh and eighth projects are
expected to be completed on time and to attain their objectives. The pruposed
loan would be the first to assist university development directly.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.35      The Government's policy is to expand university enrollment and to
reorient courses and research directly towards the manpower and research needs
of industrial development, with only limited investment in new facilities. It
will improve management and coordination of the system, control costs and
introduce some cost recovery particularly through the replacement of student
scholarships by loans. The central agencies, Treasury and EPU, and MOE have,
for the first time, requested Bank support for investment in university devel-
opment and, as necessary, assistance in the preparation of long-term strategy
and plans for university development. The proposed project would assist the
Government to implement the key policy decisions it has already taken to
expand enrollments, improve efficiency and increase cost-recovery. It would
also support a limited program of highest priority investments aimed at key
manpower neeis. The improvements in long-term planning supported by the
project would provide a basis for sound investment programs after 1990. These
planning activities would be complemented and supported by Bank sector work in
higher education in FY88 and FY89, particularly in management and financing
aspects. The project would be a logical extension of the Bank's successful
experience in supporting projects in the education sector.
II. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Scope
2.1       The objectives of the project are:
(a)  to expand university enrollment capacity to meet priority manpower
needs in areas of engineering related to industrial development and
in medical sciences related to rural and community health; and
(b)  to strengthen university management and improve planning of
university development and operations.
2.2       The project would provide:
(a)  site preparation, academic buildings, administrative and communal
facilities and student dormitories, equipment, materials and
furniture and related staff training and technical assistance to:
(i)   expand the University of Science, Malaysia, by completing
the infrastructure and first stage of development of the
Schools of Engineering at Sri Iskandar, Perak, for an
eventual enrollment of 1,200 students and completing a
second phase of development of the 3chool of Medical
Sciences at Kubang Kerian, Kelantan, to integrate the



- 12 -
School on one campus and increase enroll.nent from 550 to
1,200; and
(ii)   assist the Faculty of Engineering at the National
University of Malaysia to expand enrollments from about 300
eventually to 1,200;
(b) technical assistance to assist the Ministry of Education to:
(i)   establish long-term plans and strategies for university
development, operations and financing for the period after
1990; and
(ii)   initiate improvements in university management, including
the establishment of improved systems and procedures.
The University of Science, Malaysia--Schools of Engineering at Sri Iskandar,
Perak (Outlay US$31.2 million, excluding contingenoies)
2.3       The project would finance the development of the first stage of the
Schools of Engineering on the new campus at the proposed new town of Sri
Iskandar, Perak, about 18 miles from Ipoh. The project would include the
infrastructure, buildings, equipment and furniture for the new Schools of
Mechanical and Civil Engineering for a plan1ied enrollment of about 1,200
students in undergraduate and post-graduate courses and research; together
with administration, academic services, library, student accommodation, and
communal facilities.
2.4       There is not sufficient space to accommodate the long-term develop-
ment of engineering on the main campus in Penang. The proposed site is also
justified on the grounds of accessibility to existing and proposed industrial
development. The State Government has provided a site of about 200 hectares
of which one-third consists of worked out tin-mines including lakes which will
be incorporated into the site design. About half the site is forest land
which the university intends to preserve. The master plan for the campus has
been prepared by consultants. The water supply to the site is adequate for
the first stage; the State authorities have agreed to increase the supply for
the second stage as part of the new town development. There is a satisfactory
access road and adequate electrical power and telephone services available to
the site. The accommodation schedules for the first stage were agreed with
EPU and reviewed by the Bank, and are satisfactory.
2.5       Undergraduate degree and diploma courses would be developed in
mechanical, production and industrial engineering aimed at producing engineers
needed for the successful implementation of the IMP (Annex 5, Table 1). The
civil engineering course would have a strong bias towards public health
engineering and highway and traffic engineering, for which manpower and
training is at present lacking, rather than construction for which there is
already an adequate supply of manpower. There would be a strong emphasis on
computer-aided design, numerical methods, and computer modelling of engineer-
ing and manufacturing processes. The schools would thus develop a distinctive
character, closely related to modern industrial design and production



- 13 -
processes, and would contribute to industrial development as well as supplly
trained manpower. The Schools of Electrical and Electronic Engineering and
Materials and Mineral Resources would continue in temporary accommodatioll in
Ipoh until the second stage of the new campus is developed. The temporary
accommodation is not adequate for the full development of these courses and it
is important that these two Schools also be accommodated at the Sri Iskandar
campus in a second stage, as soon as possible, so that post-graduate courses
and research could be fully developed and the work of the Schools fully
integrated. Links which have been established with the Ungku Omar Polvtech-
nic, Ipoh, including shared use of workshop facilities, would be continued and
strengthened.
2.6       The engineering schools have already established good links with
universities overseas, particularly in Britain and Australia, through which
assistance has been given with course design and with staff training. These
links would be expanded through the project to assist course development
through technical assistance, staff training fellowships, other academic
interchange and Joint research. Academic staff would increase from 60, of
whom 50% are currently in training overseas, to about 120 by 1990, mainly
through the recruitment of recent graduates, most of whom would need post-
graduate training and industrial experience. Additional laboratory
technicians would also need to be recruited and trained. The project would
provide funding for a program for the four Schools of about 300 staff-years of
fellowships for post-graduate and other training overseas, including exchanges
and industrial attachments, and about 10 staff-years of long- and short-term
assignments of experienced staff from overseas. The project would also cover
the costs of the development of research in fields relevant co industrial
design and manufacturing processes to support industrial development.
The University of Science, Malaysia--School of Medical Sciences at Kubang
Kerian, Kelantan (Outlay US$30.8 million, excluding contingencies)
2.7       The project would finance the second phase of construction, equip-
ping and furnishing for the School of Medical Sciences at Kubang Kerian to
expand the support services for the existing teaching hospital, and to provide
priority teaching and research accommodation and facilities to accommodate the
initial years of the course at present temporarily housed in Penang, so that
the School can function as an integrated unit for the five-year course, with
an increase in enrollment from about 550 to 1,200 students. The transfer of
the present medical students from the main campus in Penang would also release
accommodation required there for increases in enrollment in other priority
courses. The facilities would also include an additional student hostel to
provide 360 places, a small sports complex and an animal house. Original
plans for the school have been revised to improve the efficiency of utiliza-
tion and to postpone some research and support facilities as well as the final
stage of expansion of hospital ward capacity, in order to keep the development
within the limited budget. The equipment in the school's temporary facilities
in the main Penang campus would be transferred to Kubang Kerian and additional
equipment and furniture would be supplied under the project.
2.8       The courses in the School of Medical Sciences would include the MD
program, an existing diploma in medical laboratory technology, and other new



- 14 -
diploma courses and post-graduate courses including a Masters in Medicine
course to start in 1988 (Annex 5, Table 2). The Masters program is innovotive
in that it is designed as a three-year part-time course for which distance
learning materials will be provided, followed by a fourth full-time year of
study. It would therefore be very attractive for doctors working in rural
areas. The School is unique in Malaysia in its integrated approach and the
strong focus on community medicine and rural health. A Chair in Rural Health
is to be established. The development of courses and research would require
continuation of the present vigorous staff and academic development programs
and the maintenance of the existing links with overseas schools to provide for
staff interchanges and training. The project would, therefore, also provide
about 300 staff-years of overseas fellowships, about 10 staff-years for short-
and long-term assignments of experienced overseas staff, and finance for
research and pilot projects. The research would include close monitoring of
health care outcomes of the school. Pilot projects would include provision of
special teaching units in selected rural health care centers and the training
of medical officers in education to enhance their supervision of students.
This development would have other beneficial spin-offs: MOH medical officers
would be provided with opportunities for professional development including
enrollment in the part-time Masters in Medicine program, and fewer full-time
university staff would be needed.
2.9       The rural and community health orientation of the course is in line
with MOH policy to improve medical services in rural areas. As far as
practicable, graduates from the School would be placed in rural and community
health posts and provided with incentives, including adequat( career develop-
ment opportunities and compensation, to motivate students to enter the
course. Also, as appropriate, the rural health orientation would be
strengthened in the other two university medical schools.
The National University of Malaysia--Faculty of Engineering (Outlay US$16.7
million, excluding contingencies)
2.10      The project would include buildings, equipment and related staff
training and technical assistance for the Departments of Mechanical and
Materials Engineering; Electrical, Electronics and Systems Engineering; Civil
and Structural Engineering; and Chemical and Processing Engineering. The
original proposal under the Fifth Plan was for a major second phase develop-
ment on a 80 ha site adjacent to the existing campus in Bangi, including site
works, roads and infrastructure together with new buildings for faculties of
engineering, education, languages, and law as well as a computer center,
administration and studenc accommodation. The development budget allocated is
far short of the cost of this long-term development, which has therefore been
postponed. The new engineering teaching building would form the first build-
ing of the second phase, but only the minimum infrastructure necessary for
access and services would be provided. Additional laboratories for engineer-
ing would also be set-up in rented factory accommodation in Bangi.
2.11      The enrollments would increase from about 300 at present to about
1,000 undergraduates and 200 in postgraduate courses and research (Annex 5,
Table 3). The content of the courses would be aimed mainly at the
specializations identified in the IMP.



- 15 -
2.12      The development of courses in engineering to support the objectives
of the IMP would necessitate a vigorous program of course and research
development and substantial staff development. The services of consultants
and specialist staff would also be required to assist with the development of
new courses, particularly to design and implement project work, post-graduate
courses and research. The project would include a total of about 240 staff-
years of fellowship training and 10 staff-years of expert services. Support
costs for research related to manufacturing industry would also be included.
University Development Policies, Planning and Management (Outlay US$0.5 mil-
lion excluding contingencies)
2.13      The Government is already starting to implement the following
important policy decisions on university development: development budgets
have been cut under the Fifth Plan but universities are being required to
increase enrollments through improved utilization of facilities (para. 1.21);
courses are being reoriented towards applied subjects (para. 1.19) and cost-
sharing has been improved by increasing students loans and drastically cutting
scholarships (para. 1.30). The Government gave an assurance that it would
prepare a plan for university development and finance for the period after
1990. The Bank would provide such assistance in the preparation of the plan
as the Government may reasonably request.
2.14      The long-term plan and strategy would cover:  the development of the
system as a whole; the plans for development of individual universities;
staffing and staff development policies and programs; research development;
long-term changes in management arrangements and responsibilities; criteria
and procedures for resource allocation; university accountability; monitoring
of performance; and financing and cost-sharing. The management of the
universities would be strengthened and the coordination of development and
operations improved. Management systems would be improved, computer-based
information systems developed, improved planning and budget systems and
procedures introduced and performance indicators developed and introduced as
the basis for monitoring performance and relating resource allocation to
improved efficiency of operation. Management training programs would be
established for MOE and university staff (Annex 6).
2.15      The MOE would be responsible for the preparation of the long-term
plans for university development and for the initiation of improvements in
university management. The universities would be involved through the Vice-
Chancellors' Conference (para. 1.25). The Conference secretariat, which is
the MOE's Higher Education Division, would be responsible for the implementa-
tion of the component. The Conference has already set up technical sub-
committees to examine university staff development, utilization of staff
resources and student achievement. Further sub-committees would be estab-
lished, as necessary, to examine other issues, including student projections
and manpower needs, evaluation and monitoring, development of performance
indicators, financing and long-term management and coordination arrange-
ments. Recommendations from the Vice-Chancellors and other bodies would be
reviewed by the Higher Education Sub-Committee of the EPC. In order to take
advantage of experience gained elsewhere, through links, exchanges and staff
assignments, the project would include 24 staff-months of specialist services



- 16 -
and 10 staff-years of overseas training visits or attachments for central
agency, MOE and university staff, financed from the annual operating budget.
2.16      Summary of Staff Training and Technical Assistance.  The programs of
staff training and technical assistance, which include about 32 staff-years of
consultant and specialist services and about 850 staff-years of fellowships
for staff,training would be financed by the Government through annual opert.-
ing budgets following normal Government procedures (paras. 2.6, 2.8, 2.12 i d
2.15 and Annex 7). The Government gave an assurance that it would implemen
the agreed programs for staff training and for the provision of technical
assistance, which would be reviewed annually with the Bank.
2.17      The technical assistance and staff training program would be
arranged as far as possible through link arrangements under which the services
of specialists would be integrated with staff training fellowships, most of
which are expected to be with the overseas universities with which strong
links already exist.
Project Costs and Financing
2.18      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$81.4 million
equivalent. The estimated cost by project component is summarized in Table 1
and by category of expenditure in Table 2. Detailed costs by component and
category and project expenditure by purpose and year are given in Annex 8,
Tables 1 and 2. The physical development, to be funded under the development
budget within the Fifth Plan period, is estimated to cost US$49.6 million
(M$124 million) including contingencies and represents budget allocations
under the Fifth Plan, which are strict ceilings. In addition staff training,
consultants, research development, and rentals at UKM are estimated to cost
about US$31.8 million (M$79.5 million), which would be financed under the
Government's annual operating budgets.
2.19      Base costs are estimated at October 1987 prices.  Staff training and
technical assistance costs are based on actual unit costs of such services in
programs currently being financed by the Government. Infrastructure costs are
based on actual tendered prices, and costs for buildings are based on recent
construction contracts for similar buildings. The unit costs of construction
reverse the recent trend of rising costs of university building (Annex 8,
Table 3). Estimates of equipment costs are based on master lists reviewed and
agreed at appraisal and recent catalogue prices. As the allocations for
equipment are limited by the budget ceiling, the present lists cover only the
highest priority items.
2.20      The foreign exchange cost of US$49.6 million represents 61Z of the
total estimated cost and has been calculated on the basis of the estimated
foreign exchange percentages shown in Table 2. Physical contingencies of
about 3.5% have been allowed for construction but not for other categories of
expenditure since actual expenditure will be governed by overall budget
ceilings. Contracts for construction would have to be let within the budget
ceilings; hence, if bid prices significantly exceed estimates, parts cf the
construction program, already identified and agreed, would be postponed. The
low contingency for civil works represents allowances for variation orders



- 17 -
Table 1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Foreign
M$ million               US$ million            as % of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total          total
University of Science, Malaysia:
Schools of Engineering             31.9    46.1    78.0    12.7    18.5    31.2            60
School of Medical Sciences        32.6    44.4    77.0    13.1    17.7    30.8             58
Subtotal                   64.5    90.5   155.0    25.8    36.2    62.0             59
National University of Malaysia-
Faculty of Engineering             13.1    28.7    41.8       5.2    11.5    16.7          69
Planning and management               0.1      1.1     1.2      0.1      0.4      0.5         90
Baseline Cost              77.7   120.3   198.0    31.1    48.1    79.2             61
Contingencies:
Physical                            1.6     0.9      2.5      0.6      0.4      1.0        35
Price increase                      0.3     2,7      3.0      0.1      1.1     1.2         90
Subtotal                    1.9      3.6     5.5      0.7      1.5      2.2         65
Total Project Cost /a    79.6   123.9   203.5    31.8    49.6    81.4               61
/a Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$0.8 million.



- 18 -
Table 2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPRNDITURE
Foreign
M$ million              US$  illion            as % of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total        total
Construction                        57.0    30.7    87,7    22.8    12.3    35.1           35
Furniture                            1.1     0.4      1.5     0.5      0.1     0.6         25
Equipment and materials              2.1    18.8    20.9      0.8      7.5      8.3        90
Professional services                9.7     1.7    11.4      3.9      0.7     4.6         15
Technical Assistance:
Specialists                        0.8     7.2      8.0     0.3      2.9     3.2         90
Fellowships                        6.3    56.4    62.7      2.5    22.6    25.1          90
Research and related               0.6     5.1      5.7     0.3      2.0     2.3         90
activities
Subtotal                   7.7    68.7    76.4       3.1    27.5    30.6          90
Other                                0.1     0.0      0.1     0.0      0.0     0.0         10
Baseline Cost             77.7   120.3   198.0    31.1    48.1    79.2            61
Contingencies;
Physical                           1.6     0.9      2.5     0.6      0.4      1.0        35
Price increase                     0.3     2.7      3.0     0.1      1.1      1.2        90
Subtotal                   1.9      3.6     5.5      0.7     1.5      2.2         65
Total Project Cost /a    79.6   123.9   203.5    31.8    49.6    81.4             61
/a includes taxes and duties estimated at US$0.8 million.



- 19 -
following contract signing. Price contingencies, equivalent to about 4% of
base costs for technical assistance have been allowed and estimated in
accordance with the implementation schedule and the following expected annual
domeotic and foreign price increases: 1988-1990, 1%; 1991 and beyond, 3.5%.
2.21      The proposed Bank loan of US$48.2 million would finance the develop-
ment budget expenditure, net of taxes, equivalent to about 59% of the total
project cost. The loan is limited by the ceiling on the Government's develop-
ment budget allocation and is less than the foreign exchange cost of the pro-
ject. The remaining US$33.2 million, which includes duties and taxes, would
be provided by the Government. Retroactive financing of US$4.8 million would
be provided from loan funds for eligible expenditure from April 1, 1987. The
financing plan is shown in Table 3. Staff training fellowships, visiting
specialists and other project-related operating costs would be paid from
annual operating budgets. The Government would request disbursements from the
loan only for development budget expenditures, and because of the Fifth Plan
development budget ceilings, it would not be possible to transfer the training
and technical assistance costs to the development budget.
Table 3: FINANCING PLAN
Govern-                          IBRD
Category of expenditure                    ment/a        IBRD   Total/a      share
-----(US$ million)       (X)
Civil works                                    0.7       3404    35.1             98
(0.7)              (0.7)
Professional services /b                       0.6        4.0     4.6            100
Equipment, furniture and materials              -         8.9     8.9    100/100/70
Staff training, consultants and related
operating expenditure                       31.8         -     31.8              0
Unallocated (physical contingencies            0.1        0.9      1.0
for civil works)                            (0.1)              (0.1)
Total                                    33.2       48.2    81.4             59
(0. -8)             (0.8)
/a   Figures in parentheses show estimated taxes included in totals.
7i   Expenditure on professional services includes about US$0.6 million paid
by Government before April 1, 1987.



- 20 -
Operating Costs
2.22      Implementation of the project would increase university operating
costs as a result of (a) increased enrollment and (b) costs of staff training
and technical assistance programs. The expansion of enrollments would
increase university operating costs from about M$470 million in 1985/86 to
about M$700 million in 1990/91 (at constant prices) if unit costs were
unchanged. Unit costs should, however, fall due to economies of scale and
through increased efficiency as improved management systems take effect. The
issue for the MOE and the universities would be to ensure that unit costs do
fall as enrollments are increased, but not at the expense of quality, and that
adequate operating funds are provided and appropriately allocated. The
performance indicators which would be de-eloped as part of the program of
improved management would be a key factor in the monitoring of efficiency of
operations and would be used to guide the level and distribution of operating
funds to maximize efficiency.
2.23      The average unit cost per student of establishing the new engi-
neering and medical science courses under the project, including annualized
capital costs, would be approximately US$8,000 per student per year at 1987/88
prices, compared with an average annual cost for training overseas the same
mix of students of about US$14,000 per year (Annex 8, Table 4). On the basis
of the comparative costs and other benefits of local training the development
project is well justified.
2.24      The Government would provide an adequate operating budget following
its normal procedures, to (i) sustain the increased enrollments in the project
institutions, maintaining quality while reducing unit costs through improved
efficiency; and (ii) finance the staff training and technical assistance
programs. The development and project-related operating budgets allocated for
1988 cover the expected expenditures. Annual budget allocations would be
reviewed by the Bank as part of its normal project implementation review.
Project Implementation and Management
2.25      Project management would be based on the existing arrargements for
managing university development. Within each of the project universities, the
Development Officer and Bursar would be responsible for procurement, contracting
and payments as for normal university development and operations. These
offices are already well-established in each of the project universities and
adequately staffed to manage the implementation of the project. Building
programs, equipment lists, proposals for consultant and visiting staff
services and selection and placement in staff training fellowships would be
subject to the normal approval processes in the universities and central
agencies.
2.26      The MOE, through its Higher Education, Finance, and Development and
Supplies Divisions, would review and approve annual programs and budget
allocations and monitor progress through monthly reports (Annex 9 and Annex 9,
Chart 1). Within each university, separate accounts and records for the loan-
funded project activities would be established, including records and accounts
for reimbursement from the loan on the basis of statements of expenditure.



- 21 -
Since the project-related expenditures under the operating budget would be
paid directly by the Government, the accounts of that expenditure would be
maintained and audited as part of the universities' overall operating
accounts, but the project-related expenditure would be identified so that
total project expenditures could be monitored by the universities, central
agencies and the Bank. Reports on progress would be submitted to the Bank at
six-monthly intervals covering the periods ending June 30 and December 31 each
year.
2.27      Implementation Schedule.  Detailed implementation schedules were
agreed with the universities and central agencies (Annex 9, Chart 2). The
proposed completion date is December 31, 1991, and the loan would be closed on
December 31, 1992. All physical development would be completed by the end of
1990 which is within the Fifth Plan period.
2.28      Status of Project Preparation.  The status of project preparation is
summarized in Table 4.
Table 4: STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION
USM
UKM              Engineering                    Medical
Civil Works
Site             Acquired.                  Acquired.                      Acquired.
Planning         Consultants short-listed; Campus master plan,             Detailed designs
evaluation expected to    designs and accommodation    and accommodation
be submitted to Bank       schedule agreed.               schedules agreed.
shortly.
Construction                                 Infrastructure works          Tenders for main
started September 17.         buiJl3ing works invited
Tenders for main build-        September 28.
ing works invited
September 28.
Equipment
Lists and        Tenders invited for         Lists and cost estimates       Lists and cost esti-
specifications  first phase.                agreed.  Specifications        mates agreed.  Specifi-
under preparation.            cations under prepara-
tion.
Staff Training    Programs ongoing             Links formed with British    Programs ongoing.
and Technical      financed from operating   and Australian universities.
Assistance         budget.                     Programs ongoing.



- 22 -
Procurement
2 29      Procurement would follow Bank Guidelines, with international compe-
titive bidding adopted for all but one of the civil works contracts of more
than US$2.5 million and for all equipment packages of more than US$200,000.
The contract for the site-preparation and infrastructure works at the USM
Schools of Engineering site (cost US$4.5 milllion) has been tendered under
local competitive bidding procedures, in which foreign firms were allowed to
participate, and which have been satisfactory to the Bank in previous similar
projects. Contracts of this size for site preparation and infrastructure
works in other education projects have not attracted foreign contractors and
the beginning of site works in September 1987 was critical as classes are
scheduled to begin at the campus in June 1989. The other construction con-
tracts expected to be let by LCB are the student hostel and small sports
complex at the School of Medical Sciences, costing about US$1.2 million and
US$0.6 million, respectively. Furniture and equipment packages estimated to
cost less than $200,000 (estimated value US$2.0 million) would be awarded on
the basis of LCB advertised in accordance with Government procedures accept-
able to .he Bank. Furniture and equipment in packages estimated to cost less
than US$50,000 and aggregating less than US$1.0 million equivalent would be
purchased on the basis of quotations from a minimum of three suppliers or
through Treasury contracts for bulk procurement, as agreed with the Bank in
previous projects. Books, computer software and other instructional materials
(estimated value US$0.5 million) would be procured through direct purchase,
after negotiations for the lowest prices. Prior Bank review of bidding
documents and proposed contract awards would be required for all contracts for
civil works and equipment packages awarded on the basis of ICB, and for the
Schools of Engineering infrastructure works, estimated to cost in total about
US$39.6 million (88Z of the total value of goods and works). Specialists and
architectural/engineering consultants have been or would be selected in
accordance with Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. A breakdown of
project expenditure by procurement category is shown in Table 5. The status
of Bank review of civil works procurement actions is shown in Annex 9,
Table 1.



- 23 -
Table 5: PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY /a
(Us$ million)
Total cost
including
Category of expenditure          ICB       LCB        Other   contingencies
Civil works                     29.8        6.3          -         36.1
(29.2)     (6.1)         -        (35.3)
Professional services              -         -          4.6         4.6
-         -         (4.0)       (4.0) /b
Equipment, furniture and          5.4       2.0         1.5         8.9
materials                      (5.4)     (2.0)       (1.5)       (8.9)
Fellowships and visiting           -         -         29.4        29.4
specialists                     -          -          (-)         (-)
Other                              -         -          2.4          2.4
_-                   (-)         (-)
Total                      35.2        8.3        37.9        81.4
(34.6)     (8.1)       ?1I-)      (48.2)
/a   Values in parentheses are loan allocations.
7i   Approximately M$2.0 million in fees for professional services have
already been funded from other sources and are not therefore eligible for
disbursement from the loan.
Disbursements
2.30      The proposed loan of US$48.2 million would be disbursed over a peri-
od of five-and-a-half years. Disbursement would be made on the basis of
(a) 98% of the cost of civil works; (b) 100% of the cost of professional fees;
and (c) 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory)
and 70% of other local expenditures for equipment, furniture and materials.
The costs of technical assistance and staff training would be funded from the
Government's annual operating budgets and the Government does not, as a matter
of policy, use loan funds to finance operating budget expenditure. For this
reason, loan funds would be disbursed entirely against civil works, profes-
sional fees and equipment and materials. The rate of disbursement against
civil works represents the total cost net of the estimated duties paid on
construction materials and therefore would be higher than normal in education
projects.
2.31      Disbursements for miscellaneous equipment and furniture in packages
of up to US$50,000, and books, computer software and other instructional



- 24 -
materials, would be made against statements of expenditure for which relevant
documents would be retained and made available for review by visiting Bank
missions. All other disbursements would be made against full documentation.
The disbursement schedule (4nnex 10) is based on the implementation schedule
and the disbursement profile for education projects in Malaysia.
2.32      Special Account.  To ensure that funds would be available to the
project universities as needed and to minimize delays in loan disbursements,
the Government's Accountant General would set up a Special Account with sub-
accounts for each of the two project universities. Initial deposits would
amount to US$5.0 million for USM and US$1.0 million for UKM, approximately
equivalent to the Bank loan share of four months of eligible expenditures for
construction, architectural consultants, equipment, furniture and materials.
Reporting and Audit
2.33      Project accounts would be maintained in each university.  Copies of
the accounts would be submitted to the Bank within nine months of the end of
the Government's financial year, together with auditors' reports including
separate audits of the Special Accounts and of accounts relating to disburse-
ments against statements of expenditure. Twelve months after the closing
date, the MOE would submit to the Bank a project completion report covering
all project components.
Benefits and Risks
2.34      The main benefits would be:  (a) improved access to university
places in Malaysia; (b) improved supply of high level manpower in the priority
fields of engineering needed to support the expansion of manufacturing
industry, and in medicine to support the upgrading of health services in rural
areas; and (c) improvements in the planning and management of the university
system and preparation of a plan for university development for the period
after 1990. The risk of the Government not being able to sustain the develop-
ment and operating expenditure has been addressed by drastically limiting the
scope of the project and by the Government's imposition of strict budget
ceilings and policies to minimize costs and improve efficiency including the
utilization of resources. Although there is a current problem of graduate
employment generally, the output of the schools to be developed are in the
highest priority fields and there is no risk of unemployment.
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.1       At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it would:
(a)  prepare a plan for university development and finance for the period
after 1990. The Bank would provide such assistance in the
preparation of the plan as the Government may reasonably request
(para. 2.13);



- 25 -
(b) implement the agreed programs for staff training and for the
provision of technical assistance, which would be reviewed annually
with the Bank (para. 2.16); and
(c) maintain project accounts in accordance with sound accounting
practice, submit copies of the annual accounts and auditors'reports
within nine months of the end of the financial year and within
twelve months after the closing date submit a project completion
report (para. 2.33).
3.2       Subject to the above, the project is suitable for a Bank loan to
Malaysia of US$48.2 million equivalent, for a term of 15 years including a
grace period of 3 years, at the standard variable rate.



- 26 -                                                                     A1NNEX 1
Page 1
UNIVERSITY DEVEIJOMM,EN PROJECT
Comparative Education Indicators
October 221, 1987
-wnm
LEPUIIUP       89006A1I0                          CONPL?M031            38006888
ON macrmu  msum                ADULT              "To6 NI               ugly 088? P0eouno
GU? N                 AS P9*0333      EEPI£EE    11138*0  PafhIAl 7618481    Pa13A51  8613889              "Ala 94       SEOWOmm    SEoI££*j atom3
MUS  PO.  CAPtA  P68Cm?    TM"P 1093 A. 08 L934        CAT1.0 160. U0: 8*6     01,1.. 8033003    STUWEf  8833041108  P811348  M0  8381..   6100U3"   ENNLL.
VW*  WILLs. (339)   090110 10  GOOIEJIUU         t  1  SC  Ilt    (t)    64110   C'CCLI            6 M       8 PAs  5  6E08310W       "Ito1    ME           8*0t
(1979) (£979)   LulcaiC     609*3N113I6            M8         (£974)   (8)         (63      73*0338   GUPCIWIIA        (6)        (2)      7640336      (1)
(3)  (2)   0)            (4)            (5)          (4)       (1)((8)              (9)         (10)         (£33        (32)        (33)    (34)
*0813*.1*     8      £4.68  6,870       6.18        £4.          -                          £)         0          2£                       99           3         £3      20.90
CA38*8                      3,89851           77A£.'1                 1'  148?42)'? .,b           £0'l'     £100        2£        19.90?        t00                    to 3     22.40'
ouuww  .%.          79i   41*Z  II.aoo       4.6           99          -         -       998       69       too         -         --            too&         94        -        1.0
8811£8P1J18         74    14.0  10,490       7.9           9.1        to   39   29       998       98        95         IS        IS.)          99            2        £3       12.40
8633 zEAIAm         s0      1.28  469981     S. 9         11.4        37   )I   28       998      £00       £00         24        £3.8          100          82        is       25.9014
sum08               it     8.3  12,250       9.0          16.2        13  £0   £0        998       9W       £00         £8o       £9.9          £00          79x       £06y    38.508?
BUTIE'ZM            8       t.0k     Mb    6.0            22.0        41  34  22         40       £00        77         32        £0.0          40           20        2£        1.80
137038             SI      4.2      219      2.6k'        £4.         43   26   27       29        29'       3s         17        20.2           £2           3'       It        £ .00
C03E00S        8~~~~4 0.4b    345       L.6w         28.0        '9  29  22         49        74        40         39        -             45           36        28        0.40
0.19371             64.    0.4      490      1.0          £1.9        71 28...    to              42        48          40        67.0          40           £0        £9       0.40
fltCOPI*            8s    41.0       £10     ).8P          9.5       $5   is   37        39        37        30'        83        £9.)          91           £4   4              0, 50
KENYA               82    £7.4      420      5.618        20.38       6    lo £61        448      £13        58         38        14.4           is          £6        28         -
LISOIU              82       :41'   435      55           £8.9        38   32   26       538      £34'       43         46         9.8          44           2£       23         3,30
K3A*A04WA48         77     6.        330b    4.OW         24.0        51   28   £9       so        94b13     33         ss         6.0           36          £4        23        3. 0o'7
NA*3Nt              8£      *,jb    230       1.          11.4        38   14   25       358       62        21         45         M.            12           4        2£        3.40
8823*11133          03      I.08  1.1I7yo    4.)          £6.0        46   18    7      808        93        72         2)        3 3.0        £00           so        22        3.00
MAMI*               83      s*98    2708    3.6          27.4         7£   £8   £1       37b       45       10          40        £6.            9            5        £6        0,40
S810£83.L88    79~I    0.6   1.770      1.9          22.4'       163 )'£30 10.                                     2          --is.                                     
89*WLb              6t     4.5      34       I.9          to., S      So   448b  68    jo8         U8        Wt.        2,8        9.0b          Bob         £28       22        3.00
833081              8o    19.28    3841b   1.0            -           466 39  ...    12            5£4'      48         34         1.4           At          £6        It
EV*11LD             6)     0.78b   ,408      3.           20.4        1£   34   Is       658       91        50         31        £1t.0         96           29        £6        1.00
78828818            80    £6.5      260       5.9         £77         47*  t0   £8       y9b       998       87         4)        £1 .0          £98          I        208       0.10
UGANDA              s 80   t£268    308      -            £6.1'       131178208          48        542       61         34        -              £7           S        23       0.6.0
Ulu8                SI    29.61    2108    7.7            28.4        -    -    to       548       78        25         30        23.0          40           II        is        2.00
ZANBIA              8o      j7b    5668,   4.5P           1£.£        48 2322            448       W9       8           48        32.9           it          £4        22        3.50o
21364833            8£      7:78    i40       5.3         £9.5        62   32    6       448       80        51         39        20.           as           £s        21        0.5so
38818               79      3.48b   1208    6.5'          19.0        41   2£    S    £18          42        so         44        £4.0           30          I£        4 3       3.00?
8086113*      ~~~8)   6.5      2108    2.1'g         21.7        41   29   28       4         16        a5         57        24..          £8            3        24.      0.03
0*138300            64    £0.0      6108    3.1           -           13 8 s28          20         69        498        so0              -                   23        26        2.70
0.4.S.              68      2.88    2408    1.68?         24.7ay      49   £6   24    -            79        45         4587      to             -           is        87        1.4087
033*                78      4.4      120     2.4817       21.71       -     -.  -       is         25?       -          77         -             -            111V    2£         0.207
CM"      ~          76      3.9     670      9.0887       27.?"a      -   -      -      -          -         -          s6b7y      .             30          -         4)by      4.00'?
803AY. GU3M"6       85     0.3b    2708    2.8             3.8        47   24   ...   208          1)3       £0         60         5.2          40           25       I378T      -
-*30                77      0.6   1.420       1.78?        8.47                -       -       -                        468?      -              -           -         3981      2.80'?
08361               ?7      0.8      210     I3V5         46$         46   258   80   t08          40t7      90'        278       44.148         40          li2a,    £7
013*334       ~~~~78    £13.   400      4.0?         15.0  8                       -          7181y                278?      .-            --           34817    21  
CGUI WA             i9      5.1     M9P    4,489          -           2se  28'28'S  20             34        38         38        20.04p        65           34        29        7.00'
IVonOEI083          83     9, 38    720      7.3         42.8         S3   40    9    15'          72       79          37        29.0          49           22'E     10         3.66
133643              80      1.6     520      4.6          £9.6        43   21   24    30           52        32         35        20.0          74           22        20        2.90
33ALt               8£      7.08    £90      4.28         21.7'       38 21 £           £0 t       20        60         44        35.7          44            I        It        0.90'?
HAU31YSI*AK         78      1,68      Mb    S.3           £6.9        13   41   29    £78          32        40         44        52.0           50           9        25        0.37
Lo0u               84      5.2      100      2.8         23.0        60  2920          £4         29        20         16        43.0           37           8        28        0.5SO
830861*             83    93*6b    7408    7.4?           380                    3      6          3         70         3          9547                      2 3       30        2.00
661360*1.    84    ~~~~6.     360     5.08         24.0        I4    5    £9    24          91        79         46        16099                      3'         4        2.0
SUM8  £808          77      3.      25       4.08         16.08       -     -     -     £58       3713      -           35        23.0b         St4          35'       22       ).boby8
T000                78      2.4     400      4.5W        28.59        308  26o  2'   36            74        40         548?      36.0          52           12bxy    488        3.641b7
3*713 AMERICA *13 1336 0*618868
*80633118*  76    27.)   2.210~It   2.7          10.9        41' 13'k 38'   938           69        52         £7                      87           I                   30
BA13A13*1           i9      0.2   2.770       5.7         £9.3               o 83 1£    93b        9         97         24                       97          is        19       -
8886400             76      0.2   2.660       *,8Y        321.38      418   £'  38'  998          £007       99         277       19.9'          99'         lay       201
"OLIVIA             S0      9.4      550      4.,37       10.5'       -    --  -        83         747       -          toy7                     -.          157       -        12.807
88*211              79   £38.5   3.170        3.8          8.2        It         14    78          73'?      -          298'       4,.S8         418          WT5       WY6'    t.628
cmtII               76     £0.9   3.690       3.28?       133.0       -      - --   --            3It9br     -          3487      -..            -.          $$uy      zaI  201 3.908?
001.0381            60    26.7   3.9          3.3         25.0        35   20   20    Sib          i8        38         32         8.6                       47        20       10.02'?
COSTA  W10          s0      2.2 It 3.t1810b    6.4        11.3        40   27   1)    90           91        77         13         5.5           77          40        27       16.00
cumA                78      9.6      -        8.0         33,0        -   -    -- 94              £12811    96          £88?      -              96          73817    Is        19.02b1
3103311C1  UtP.    S0       5.3   3.030       2.9         £1.0        39   23   22      "b         No        it         59         1.2           I4          30        33       34.00
803880              80      6.48  3.130       6,09        34.7        45   3£ 3         81  1      05t        -         36        £2.8           86          47        £4       29.00
EL. SALVADOR        77      4.4      W4       1.481       231.18      64    8   27    82           8281      12         39        -              4£          748137    278?      7.9087
GUATENAIA           76      6.6   1.010       3.76?       £2.88         -        -      -          69817                3587                     69          35887     £981      5.507
031188              78      0.       81       8.1I8b      11.aby      -    -    -       -          "bay    -            318?      -              -           59ba7    --         3.00b1
m-ItI               90      5.08    2"30      3.48         7.9'?      65    9    6    238          so        20         41        19.0           628          48       27        0.80
"Daum38*            76      3.8      920      3.98        14.181b     62'1  39  £J"    80          6987    30"          4£10       32.6'          W9         2£'?      39        6.00?
MOMlC               80      2.1   1.110      8.5         13.7         37   4)   20    go           go        IS         40         2.1           95         a6I        22        6.00
338131              so    65.5   3.680        4.7         £7.08       4831935    9*                99        51         44         9.1           66          36        371      10.50
8tCA8400*           78      2.68    8108    3.081         164,b          -         -    jo         gSba      24         378              -                   2888      job8
788*13A             is      1.68  I.S508    S.W           2I.S81      4*' I    I1    1    83b      9"by      .-         797        £3.8          6'          5081      2181    20.4081
7*34A33*r           i9      3.0   1,340       3.4'        £4.2        42   17   10    64           63        12         a8         3 it          76          22        32        0.70
P8133               so    16.8,080            1.8         14.I        533I5319    so               81        36         19         9.8           89          3         22       14.40?
TIMMS13*4  M0.   77         1.1  31.910       4.881        6.6?       a8   I2   20    95           98        9£         10        10.91          4           62        24       -
3310033*            78      I.9   2.300       2.           9.4b          -- -9          94        £0981      -          24b        -                         448       -        37.80'
1686063.            is    £4.4   1,440        My1         IS.98b       -       6                   0 ~        -         2 -   -                              388ob13   *  II    21.1oy



- 27 -                                                                                  AXNNE  1
Page 2
Comparative Education Indicators
CSNIILJ
C4VERUIE3E
Om II33CA?ION  NIcuBBEN        AONLT              RATE to08             UNIT ODST  PROGRESSION
coIp PE               AS PERCEN       EIPUDIIUEES  LITERACY P2110A31 PRINPARY    7813168   PRIMARY    UAME FROM   SECONDAY SECONDARtY NIIGIER
BASE  POP.  CAPIUA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL  ENITRAL ALLOCATID 10: RATE            ENRLOLL. SCHOOL      STUMt  EDUCATION  P311K83  TO  ENROLL.   STUDENTS  ENROLL.
YEAR HILLS. (US)   DEVOTED '10  OOVERNIUN         P"I  SIC  Hi    (t)    RATIO   CYCLE            PE        As PECENY SE   DAXY   RATIO          PER        RATIO
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EIPEDtTUIJU             (2)        (1916)   (2)         (2)      TEACI3ER  ONPICAPITA       (I)          (2)    TIACNER       (2)
(3  (2)        0)             ()            ()            ()        ()        ()         ()         (30)           I)         ()         (I)       3)
IASI ASIA   rANtI  ?k PCIVIC
CHIINA              a) 102O.0b    3106    1.1              7.1         38   40   22      776       77        62          25         8.0          65           35        17        4.00
INDONtSIA           6I   jSU.5b    520        2.1          q .3       70   24    6       32b       98        61          37        11.0          7*          27        26         1.70
KORtEA              82    39. lb  t.636b    7,?w          203.8       34   34   It       96        9         98          43        16.0          87           72        22        4.00
MALAYSIA            86     1416. Ib .650b    6.7          16.3         38   40   22      70b       98o                   22        16.0          87           72        22        4.00
P67.76 N.G.         83      3.0'    820       9.4         19,0        40   I7   22       -         60        73&         31'       15.0          35           313"      ?7        1.00
PHILIPPINES         79    45*3b    6,06    2.8'           14.0        46   36   -        756       84        65          31         7.1          89           51       16       21.00
SINGAPORE           80      2.4   4.420       2.7          6.7         39   40   16      83        92        82          it         8.8          96           Si       22        8.00
SOLOhON ISL.        52      0.2b    440       6.6PW       19.06       43   34   20       is        78        so          27        10.5          40           20       is         2. s0
ThtAILANFD          82    48.06    gob    3.4             20.3        59   1 4 10        866      301        68          2 1        9.3'         44           46        I a       4.00
VANUA'3U            86      O.,lb    -        81.3        23.5        61   27    4       1,       3 15       60          24        33.0          25          20         16       2.00
SOUTH ASIA
BANGLADESH          IV    92.56b    90        3.39        I0.1ty      StI 17 20          226       637       --          53         5.6          --           I4       25         1.4.3
SNUTAI              so      3.2       80      3.6         11.0                        so        32        ---        --         ---           *-          ---         -        -
INDIA               77   659.4       210      2,9Y         9.9'y                 -       36        79'       -          I1        ---            --28t                 --        8.3I6V
NEPAL.              82     15.0b    1506    1.4          ---          -----             1 9       70        --          38        --             -23                  23         3.70'
PAKISTAN            82    81.36      3806    2.0           7.0        38   20   24       22        so        41          30         5.9          56          21         Is        ).00
EUROPE. MIDDLE LAST A"130 IIOTiI ARRICA
AFGNAJIISTAJI  77  35.5   -       ~~~~1.7       3.7        47   19   35       12        3367      69         376       --            62            a        7267      3.00?
ALGERIA             79     18.3   1.770       3.8'        12.3        34' 26'  236    33           837       45'         37         7.0'         558         297       26         3.707
EGYPT               82    43.3'    650'    4.4v            7,9         338  ISO  264,   4*         75'       918         34*        9.88         833         436       l9b      37.00
REtecE              76      9.3   4.140       2.6'        30.66        37   26   21      --        97b7      --          2,6        6.2?      ~ --            79ba     2767      37,$1367
IRA                 79    36.9       --       5.7sy       14.1'?      -    -       . -   so       3014w      -          328        -      -                  44"x      2g.'      4.90&y
tR40                79    32.6   2.710        6,347        6,9*7                               3O7        .'         28        --              -45*7                29'       9,30*
tItELAND            a I     346  4.480        6.38Y       It.S'7                         98        93        94         29        --98                       81        14       13.00
JO2080              8I      2.26  1,420b    4.9'          10.2        39   44   IS       70        92'       8s         32         35.1          --69                  38        8.90
LEBAJON             79      2.3      1- 8.6"?                          - -   --          -         96't      --          19        -      -                  I461      --       27.60`1
MOROCCOD            86    23.86    670b    6.0'           22.9        38   43   19       35        57'        9          31 I      15.1          -            14's     38        3.90f
otIA                85      3.2b  6,4906    3.2           12. I&O           --     -     3ob       73CR      65*         23       ---            90           At*      34&       .
PORTUGAL            86     10.2b  1,9713b    4.6          13.5        50   26   13       so       325        70          t8       16.9           68          55        16        8.00
801Q.NA             78    22.3   2,300        3,967        6.27                          98-       30468     -          236                                  SO34X     226      30).4606
SPALII              76    37.0   4.920        2.17        36.87- --                                8by      --         296        -             -           67        --       24..3067
SYRIA               76      8.6   3,370      4.47         t0. 3       39   25   26        8         763y     80         3S6       ---            68          4136y     21b      12.40
TUtNtStA            79      6.4   ,1310       7.07        19.0        62   59 to         462      300'9      go         396       12.8           30          30'       30        6.00
TURaEy              83      47.5  1.230       3.3         16.2        50   22   24       73b      130        77         3 1        t.0           55          26        It        8.300
33108  A.R.         84      9, 36    1306    7.9          37,7        so   20   II       21'       Ss        28         53t       27.8           so           9        20        t.90
yamEI P.D.R.        82      2.06    4206    7.6            9.7        6348  *46   8'    53         63         36        25        22.0'          46          17        20        2.50
----------------------  -----------       ----~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~------ ---
11UXNA6Y FOR UEVELOPINC COUNatRIS:
N,wber of Co."tries,                       84              93       70   t9   67       Al        92        be         93        65             75          91        RS       as
Range:                                      (1,4-          (3.7-  (23-  (8-  (5-    (B-         (32-      (12-        (W-       (3.4-         (l0-         (I-       (8-       -1.133-
t0.4)          14.3)  94)   46)  33)    99          339)      99 )        77)       67.13)        300)        84)        48)     29.0)
0-art-ilIe.  Upper:                          5.6           23.7      it   36   22       fI        98        80         43        20             87          47        26       33.01
Raedian:                        4.0            16.3      43   28   19       53        83        63         3S        33            65           26       22         3,7
tAwevi                 ~~~~3.0         33.0      38  21    33      25        60         3s        Zs         9             40          34        39         WI?
o.art3Io Deviation:                          3.3            5.6    6.5  7.5  6.5   28.0         19.0      22.5        7.0       5.6          23.5         36.5       3.5        5.0
mean:                                        6.4            37.0     46389   38         53        76        59          36       36             62          33        23        6.9
Standard beviatIOO:                          3.9            8.7      32   30     I7    29         27        24          33       13             27          2)         7        1.
ftdtg,m,.                         4~~~~~.0      36.0      43   Zs   39       5)        83        81         i5        II             65          26        22        3.7
SYIOBOLS1                                                                  PCUYNTMOS
-   0138  UNIAVAILAOU                                            A * 06A36 781CR TO BSW  YEA                        S - MINISTR  OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY
MAGNITuDE NIL OR IGLICIBI.                                    B * 063  38  PCIE HN MMBCASEwLM   VWA              ?   FOEg AND STATE WCUVBJIET ONLY
DArmJ (2UESTIONABL                                            N * CURREN  PRoNtS                                 U - PULIC EXPENDITURE ONLY
*  ICLUJDES PART-TIME ST13DUIt N *W NET                                      OLLISE  RATIO                          B * INCLUDES OE-AGX STUDENT
F - COW8  EROLLAMEN  BAYTO                           *  UNKsw  SOURCES
P - or1
SOUCES:           Coluena I and 2: Vhald Bash Atl"ag oredluestio  sector field miastooS.
Coluane I to 34:  World Bask Edgeallos sector advle"ln. covetnenE  esra,t
andlot the uses"o SEettetIC8l Yeatboo&.
Congarativa Educattion Date are usfefl to the* eveluetlon of vaEtOue eductatn system  mid malets ate oftlstive etaes$ of
edueat tonal developena  betweem  "vtrou  cooIhEiea.  NNuevsr. an the basioN o  the pto5Ael 4ote, ctoso-national cao.prisOn
should be approached with gnat castlon. Dauta presented to tdo aboe table thew bee 80lletted larptly by Bask nigelow
from  Naovelin atsources; the remlndr are staff estimates or dote rs Uf neace.  BE Em etee   bees ando to etandardivo
d.flnltloos and, within lIitt., to check Etio accuracy of the date. Nevertheless, Seth dact. r atill Inpsrftet tE
aeve"al reapect avind the Be&A to vonking to Improes thee protreoaivaly On the occasIn of Its oporattona wort. In the
ueof these dots, the following qualiflcattons should be kWpto I   led:
(3) '-Education' as daftw toaI the table Includes all education and training, bothi forest Nd non-f ormil.
(2) 'Prtmery education Waere to eduattion St the firsi leasl, eNd 'Geeoedry, education refers to all education
at the sacondary level roegrdlaaa of type (e.g.. * eneral, technical, *gletalttlrel).
(3) -Literacy ratesC (eat. 6) are of ten attained from country censuas". In any counttIes they are only
spprOziinttiono  and it to doubtful that my, mitoru deftoitlos of 'literate' he  been followed  oaIOt@stloty.
(43 -PublIc expenditure to aadutaln' (Colo. 4 and 5) refer, to all capItal en racurreat expendlttuee devoted to
aducatlon by public end quaai-poblIc agsnctea.
(5) 'EioloIlsnt ratio*' (cole. 7, 32 and 34) retfe to achool year and are the percentage of e3igtbla ech33dr.n
enrolled futl-tin. In the appropriate, echool, public end prIvate by level. They gera often subject to a ujide
Gerg1n Of erar Int the deve1opin Countriee owtng to variationte k the accuracy of baStc dots (i.e..
age-spectfIC population end enroltmst*). Eorollaest figures frequently are hlNher than the - Iuba of
students actually In school. Over-aBed etu4anto esy to Included in thema figures sad con 1skflate the ratIos.



MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimates of Employment by Main Occupation and Sector, 1985 and 1995 /a
Engineers,
professionals
and technicians      Production workers            Other                    Total            Growth
1985     1995        1985       1995         1Y85        1995         1985       1995      1985-95
Agriculture                 2,100    2,200   1,758,000  1,871,000         48,600      51,800   1,808,700  1,925,000       0.60
Mining and quarrying          800       700       49,700     46,800        7,000       6,600      57,500      54,100    -0.60
Construction                1,500    3,000         7,700     15,000        2,800       5,400      12,000      23,500      6.90
Electricity, gas and
water                     3,500    6,500      252,600    471,800        16,400      30,600     272,500    508,900       6.40
Transportation,
storage and comm-
nication                  3,200    6,900       84,700    181,400       719,500  1,540,900      807,400  1,729,200       7.90
Wholesale, etc.             3,100    4,900       143,400    223,000       37,700      58,600     184,200    286,400       4.50 c
Finance                     8,300   11,700         6,800      9,600       85,100    120,400      100,100    141,700       3.50  t
Government                103,300  121,700      489,600    576,800       765,800    902,100   1,358,700  1,600,;00        1.70
Subtotal             125,800  157,600   2,792,500  3,395,400   1,682,800  2,716,500   4,601,100  6,269,500          3.10
Manufacturing in IMP       12,300   47,400      434,500    387,100        54,500    127,200      501,300    561,600       1.10
Manufacturing not in
IMP /b                    2,600    3,500       84,000    114,500        18,700     25,500      105,300    143,500      3.10
Subtotal              14,800   50,900      518,500    501,600       73,300    152,700       606,6C0    705,200      1.50
Total                140,600  208,500   3,311,000  3,897,000   1,756,100  2,869,200   5,207,700  6,974,700          3.00
/a  The estimates in this table relate to subsectors covered by the IMP only and are thus not comprehensive of total
manufacturing manpower.
/b Projected at the average growth rate for the nonmanufacturing sectors.
Source:  IMP.  Vol. 3 - Part 5, Table 3.10.  All entries rounded to nearest hundred.                                         '1-



- 29 -                                     ANNEX 2
Table 2
MALAYS;IA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Output of Engineering Grad ates, 1986-95
1986     1987      1988      1989     1990      1991      1992      1995
Local Institutions
UKM /a                 50        80        55        75       90       100       100      250
USM 7F                  -         -        40       130      100       100       140      300
UM /b                 180       180       180       180      180       200       200      200
UTM /b                380       420       520       550      560       600       650       750
UPM /b                 70        90       115       140      210       230       240      250
MARA7c                125       150       175       200      250       300       350      600
Subtotal
(rounded)        800      900    1,100    1,300    1,400    1,500    1,700    2,400
(Diploma
graduates)       (1,000)  (1,200)  (1,400)  (2,000)  (2,200)  (2,500)  (2,500)  (2,500)
Overseas Institutions
IMP projec-
tion /d           2,600    2,600    2,600    2,600    2,600    2,600    2,600    2,600
Revised projec-
tion /e           1,700    1,700    1,700    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500
Total /f         2,500    2,600    2,800    2,800    2,900    3,000    3,200    3,900
/a  UKM and USM projections taken from data supplied to mission, July 1986.
/b  UM, UTM and UPM projections taken from data supplied to Science and Technology Study,
1984.
/c MARA projections derived from Fifth Malaysia Plan.
/d Industrial Master Plan (IMP), Vol. III, Part 5, Annex B.1 "The Supply of Technical
Manpower from Overseas Institutions."
/e Revised using same methodology as in /d above, but updating data on overseas students
to reflect lower numbers of scholarships from 1987.
/f Excludes diploma graduates. The projection reflects the lower estimate of overseas
students.



30                               ANNEX 2
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supply and Demand for Doctorsk 1986-95
A. Estimates of Supply of Medical Graduates, 1986-95
Estimated output
Source19-919-5
USM                                      400                                 600
UM & UKM                               1,300                               1,800
Overseas                                 800                                800
Total                             2,500                              3,200
B.  Estimates of Stocks of Doctors, 1985-95
1.                 Stock, 1985-90                       1990        1990 doctor:
1985      Attrition      New        1990      population      population
stock      2% p.a.     supply /a   stock      (million)          ratio
4,950       -600        2,500       6,850          18           1:2,600
2.                 Stock, 1990-95                       1995        1995 doctor:
4.1990 .    Attrition    Nqew       1995      population      population
stock      2% p.a.     supply /a   stock      (million)          ratio
6,850       -800        2,900       8,950         20            1:2,200
C.  Employment of Doctors, 1987-95
1987 /b
Public                        Estimated employment
Vacan-  Private         1990              1995
Employed   cies    total   Public   Private  Public   Private
Houseman /c          340   160                 600         -      700        -
Medical officer
(time-scale)     1,700   150   {           2,500/e      -    3,200/e       -
Senior time-scale                 { 2,900
& specialist     1,200   500/d {           --- 4,3j0/f ---   --- 5,750/f  -
/a  Supply after houseman's year.
/b  1987 estimate based on information on posts and vacancies supplied by MOR
and estimates of stock and supply in Sections A and B.
/c  Compulsory one year for all local graduates.
/d  Of 350 vacancies at senior time-scale. 230 are in rural areas and repre-
sent 70% of posts.
/e  Posts required to employ graduates during first year of service.
/f  No breakdown between public and private, but if 50% of all doctors are in
public sector, then the public-sector employment will have to increase to
3,400 by 1990 and about 4,500 by 1995 in line with the approach to the
target of 1:2,000 for the doctor:population ratio.



- 31 -                              ANNEX 3
Table 1
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
University Development and Enrollments, 1970-85
Date
estab-                                             Degree enrollment
Name                     lished  Location             Branches            1970   1980    1985
Universiti Malaya (UM)   1957   Kuala Lumpur          Kelantan           8,052   8,045   9,382
Universiti Sains          1969   Minden, Penang       Kuhang Kerian,       262   2,897   7,148/a
Malaysia (USM)                                      Kelantan; Ipoh,
Perak
Universiti Kebangsaan    1970   Bangi, Selangor    Linanun, Sabah;          191   5,726   8,193
Malaysia (UKtM)                                     Kuala Lumpur
Universiti Pertanian      1971   Serdang, Selangor  Bintulu, Sarawak         0   1,752   4,525
Malaysia (UPM)
Universiti Teknologi      1972   Kuala Lumpur         Ipoh                    0   1,047   3,031
Malaysia (UTM)
International Islamic    1982   Petaling Jaya,        -                      0        0      391/b
University (IIU)                Selangor
Universiti Utara          1983   Alor Setar,          -                      0        0      696
Malaysia (UUM)                  Kedah
Total                                                               8,505  19,467  33,366
Growth rate of degree
enrollment (M)                                                            128.9    71.4
/a Includes off-campus students.
/b Excludes enrollment of foreign students.
Source:  Table 19.3, Fifth Malaysia Plan.  Data supplied by USM ani URM to mission, July
1986.



- 32-                               ANNEX 3
Table 2
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Enrollments in Universities and Other Higher Education Institutions, 1985
and Projections for 1990
Actual, 1985               Planned, 1990
Certificate!                Certificate/
Institution                                  diploma       Degree         diploma        Degree
Non-universities
Polytechnics /a                                5,870           -         14,490
Tunku Abdul Rahman College                     2,180      2,150/b         4,360         4,340/b
MARA Institute of Technology                  17,170       1,560/c       35,060         7,3607W
Subtotal                                  25,220       3,710          53,910        11,700
Local private institutions                    31,980           -           n.a.              -
Total                                     57,200       3*710            n.a.        11,700
Universities
UM                                                 -      9,382                -        9,540
USM                                                -      7,148                -       12,046/d
U1KM                                               -      8,193                -        9,836/e
UPM                                            3,010      4,525           3,070         9,310
UTM                                            3,700      3,031           4,600         5,620
IIU                                                -        391               -         1,740
UUM                                                -        696                -        2,130
Total                                      6,710      33,366           7,670        50,222
Overseas Institutions                           11,851     22,684            n.a.          n.*.
n.a. = Not available.
/a  Five in 1985, including three polytechnics started in temporary premises (Kota Bharu,
Alor Setar, Batu Pahat); seven in 1990.
/b  Degrees awarded by University of Campbell, USA.
T7  Degrees awarded by University of Ohio, USA.
/d  Revised projection by USM (July 1986).  Includes off-campus students.
Ia  Revised projection by UKM (July 1986).
Source:  Fifth Malaysia Plan, 1986 (Table 19.3, pp. 400-491).  Data supplied by ItSM and UKM,
July 1986.



- 33 -                  ANNEX,3
Table 3
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
University Development Budget Allocations,
1986-90 /a
M$ million
UM                                              39.0
USM:
School of Medical Sciences                    50.0
Schools of Engineering                        50.0
Other (Penang/Ipoh)                           20.0
UKM:
Bangi                                         22.0
Sabah campus                                  13.6
UPM:
Sardang campus                                13.3
Sarawak campus                                52.0
ItU                                             24.5
UTM                                            325.5/b
UUM                                             46.9
Total                                    656.8
/a Revised allocations, July 1987.
/b Continuation of existing contracts.



MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF SECONDARY AND HIGHER EDUCATION SYSTEM
Higher Education
Lower/Uppe  STP         Local         OveieakDere
|~~~~~~~~olg                       Ovrsa              Degree
Primary       Lower              Upper                                                      2yas
Secondary         Secondary
Grades          Forms            Forms      SPM      Matriculaon                  ocal UniversityDegree
Ito 6          I to            IV toV                  Course t  lo(4 years)    l
MARA        Oipoma Overseas
Community College      University   Degree 
, (2 years)  D      2yearees)
Overseas
W Coursel    Ot |University                           * Degree
(4 years)
University    egree
SPM - Siil Pelaiaran Malaysia (School Certificate)                                                 Institutions   Hiptoma
STP - Sijil Tmnggi (Higher Certificate)
1/ Including Poly Technics and Private Institutions
ek40073-7



MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart for University Management
INE & SAM      1 AGNCIES
POLICY OOIES
Mlnstoero1 Educaion
Educaon              ViceeChoce 1orLs
Plonnlng
L   Committee                Conference                                                                                Deputy Minisers
Highe Education
Su|bH\-er Educmmttee          r Tecnkcal                                     | Director GenerC l| Secey Generl|
Sub-Commlttees
PUcy IkSs  OXed by  M e   Seaetedd   General I  General 11   GeneIIl I             Senf*fw a
Educaion        MniSor of     2 Deputy Mlnlers       EPRD                            _.
Planin          Educot          Secrelarv General
Coanvttee                     2 Depuiy Secetaryv
DictorGenera                                 Educational
2 Deputy Diector                                                                      & Supplie5    Euo&e
G-enerals                                   lDeseor                                                :  lon
Gen                                t~~~~~~~~~~~~EPRD)                    Diln          Dvso                 rDvsn.
Hiher Education   Depu          Deputy Secretary     HED
Subcornittee    seaetoy          Genat IUnil
Gened I       2 Deputy Drector
Generds
Secraey d   Prnnce
for UI.Inbeiites
Secretary d Sevices
for LUnWientes
Seartary. DSD
Secretary. HED
Secetay. EPRD
Vice Chanceloos  Mirnster of   7 Vice Chacellors     HED
Corfence        Education       Secrey t eyroy nra
2 Deputy Secretary
Generals                                                                                                                                                       w
Director Gelea
2 Deputy Director
Generals
Treasuy }VV orld Bankc-40073-5



MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Student Unit Development Costs: Universities in Malaysia, 1966-85
Student unit
development costs (M$) Jd
Development                                                         Expenditure   Expenditure
expenditures (in M$ million ) /a              Enrollment growth /b             (1966-80) -   (1966-85) i
1st      2nd       3rd       4th        1st      2nd       3rd      4th         enrollment    enrollment
Plan     Plan      Plan      Plan       Plan     Plan      Plan     Plan          growth         growth
Universities      1966-70  1971-75  1976-80   1981-85    1966-70  1971-75  1976-80  1981-85         (1966-85)      (1966-90)
UM                 52.05    19.21    32.04       55.92      +4,432   +1,080      -302   +1,337        15,778         23,732
USM                 1.65    37.38    71.88      210.08        +231   +2,682       -16   +4,310        15,900         26,001
UKM                 1.26    58.34   249.53       177.56       +179   +2,391   +3,156   +3,174         35,449         38,580
UPM /c               -      65.47   102.18       194.,4          -   +2,019      +869   +4,097        24,001         30,603
UTM /c               -       7.44    86.68      312.93           -   +1,348   +1,345   +3,218         15,922         43,322
IIU                  -        -         -        32.99           -         -        -     +391             -         24,456
UUM                  -        -         -         28.14/c        -         -        -      +696             -        19,599
Total        54.96   187.84   542.31   1,012.06        +4,842   +9,520   +5,052  +17,223         20,660         30,698
la  All costs have been extracted from Development Plan Reports and adjusted to ccnstant 1985 prices using the following
values of CPI: 1980=100; 1981=109.7; 1982=116.1; 1983=120.4; 1984=125.1; 1985=125.5.
/b Enrollment growth also taken from Development Plan Reports.
Tc- Includes diploma students.
7d- Student unit development costs over a period have been estimated by dividing the reported expenditure over the
period from 1966 (in constant 1985 prices) by the growth in enrollment from 1966, but over the period extended by IL
five years; e.g., [Expenditure 1966-801 - [Growth in enrollments from 1966-851.  This approach allows for the
enrollments to grow progressively to the full value corresponding to the investment.



- 37 -                            ANNEX 4
Table 2
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ministry of Education Operating Budget, 1985 and 1986
(M$ million)
1985                  1986
Amount              Amount         X
Primary and secondary                    2,557.8    67.9    2,691.2         66.5
Technical and vocational                    72.6      1.9       80.0         2.0
Teacher training                           164.1      4.4      211.5         5.2
Higher education                           570.2    15.1       638.6        15.8
[Of which universities]                 [453.8]  [12.01    (492.01       [12.21
General administration                     148.1      3.9      148.5         3.7
Planning, research and evaluation           25.0     0.7        26.6         0.6
Student welfare /a                         230.6     6.1       250.6         6.2
Total                               3,768.4   100.0    4,047.0/b    100.0
/a Includes scholarships and bursaries. In 1986, these accounted for
M$105 million of the total.
/b Indicative figure for 1987 is M$4,019 million of which M$660 million
(16.4%) is allocated to higher education.
Source: Ministry of Education.



- 38 -                            ANNEX 4
Table 3
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Comparison of Student Unit Operating Costs
(M$ - constant 1980 prices)
um/b
N--
Excluding     Including
university    university
UKM /a   USM /a      hospital       hospital    UPM /c  UTM /c
1980/81        15,320      n.e.       8,884            n.e.     11,372  7,538
1981/82        14,600   14,088        9,225           n.a.      14,899  6,493
1982/83        10,270   12,662        9,759         14,785      12,333  6,741
1983/84        10,490   11,071        7,907          11,692      7,883  5,429
1984/85        10,495   10,686        9,736         14,406       8,485  7,S528
1985/86        11.712   10,455        7,907         12,171 '.    7,687  6,736''
1986/87        11,072    9,702         n.a.            n.a.       n.a.   n.a.
n.a. = not available.
/a Taken from Working Papers.
/b Figures for UM, UPM and UTM are calculated on the basis of MOE annual
grants to universities which may differ from actual operating budgets.
/c Includes diploma students.



MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National University of Malaysia, Operating Expenditure by Major Category, 1982-86
(Ms 000)
1982/a            1983/a           1984/a           1985/a           1986/b
Amount     X      Amount    %      Amount    %      Amount    %      Amount    %
Personal Emoluments                       52,542   70.8    56,170   65.1   60,407   60.1   63,475   64.7   79,000   65.4
Services and Supplies                    19,197   25.9    26,941   31.2   34,543   34.4   29,251   29.8   34,400   28.5
Tvavel and transport                    2,693    3.6       3,015    3.5    3,550    3.5    2,534    2.6    2,259    1.9
Communications                            350    0.5        480    0.5        640    0.6       396    0.4       385    0,3
Utilities                               5,677    7.7      5,410    6.3    6,488    6.5    6,930    7.1    7,210    6.0
Rental                                      76    0.1        637    0.7    1,305    1.3    1,363    1.4    1,224    1.0
Printing services                           -       -        272    0.3       798    0.8       687    0.7       828    0.7
Supplies and materials                  3,427    4.6      5,246    6.1    6,041    6.0    5,854    6.0    7,404    6.1
Maintenance and repairs                 3,142    4.2       5,606    6.5    9,990    9.1    6,524    6.6    9,597    7.9
Professional and other services         3,832    5.2      6,275    7.3    6,631    6.6    4,963    5.0    5,493    4.6
Transfer Payments and Other Charges        2,457    3.3      3,151    3.7    5,505    5.5    5,434    5.5    7,489    6.1
Total                               74,196  100.0    86,262  100.0  100,455  100.0   98,160  100.0  120,889  100.0
/a Actual expenditures.
7T Budgeted amounts.
Source: UKM, July 1986.



- 40-                                  ANNEX 4
Table 5
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
University_of Science, Malaysia, Operating Expenditure by Major Category, 1983-85
1983             1984              1985
Amount     %     Amount      X     Amount      X
Personal Emoluments                          40,452    65.5   46,666    68.5   54,478    69.3
Services and Supplies                        12.246    19.8   15,416    22.6   17,541    22.3
Travel and transport                        1,569     2.5    2,659      3.9    2,537      3.2
Communications                                524     0.8       544     0.8       802     1.0
Utilities                                   3,259     5.3    3,604      5.3    3,919      5.0
Rental                                        313     0*5       143     0.2       159     0.2
Printing services                             308     0.5       415     0.6       516     0*6
Supplies and materials                      3,862     6.3    5,387      7.9    6,501      8.3
Maintenance and repairs                     1,153     1.9    1,080      1.6    1,255      1.6
Professional and other services             1,258     2.0    1,584      2.3    1,852      2.4
Transfer Payments and Other Charges           9.048    14.7    6,030      8.9    6,567      8.4
Total                                  61,746   100.0   68,112   100.0   78,586   100.0
Source: USM, July 1986.



-41 -                  ANNEX 4
Table 6
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Annual Direct Cost of Attending University
in Malaysia 1986/87 /a
Item                                         M$
Fees /b                                      580
Books and supplies                           340
Food and clothing                          1,530
Rent                                         680
Transport                                    370
Other costs                                  410
Total                                3,910
/a Based on the actual costs 1982/83 with average 10%
Xfi- increase unless shown otherwise.
lb No change since 1982.



- 42-                                      ANNEX S
Table I
MALAYSIA
UNIVEfRSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
USM Schools of Engineering: Student Intake (1985-93)
School/degree                           1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Electrical & Electronic Engineering
Bachelor of Engineering                 60    60    60    60    90    90    90    90    90
Diploma                                  -      -     -     -    40    60    60    60    60
Total                                60    60    60    60   130   150   150   150   150
Material & Mineral
Resources
Bachelor of Engineering                 40    40    40    40    70    70    70    70    70
Diploma                                  -      -     -     -    40    60    60    60    60
Total                                40    40    40    40   110   130   130   130   130
Mechanical Engineering
Bachelor of Engineering                  -      -     -    40    70    70    70    70    70
Diploma                                  -      -     -    20    40    40    40    40    40
Total                                 -     -      -    60   110   110   110   110   110
Civil Engineering
Bachelor of Engineering                  -     -      -    40    70    70    70    70    70
Diploma                                  -     -      -    20    40    40    40    40    40
Total                                              -    60   110   110   110   110   110
Total Bachelor of Engineering       100   100   100   180   300   300   300   300   300
Total Diploma                         -     -      -    40   120   200   200   200   200



- 43 -                                     ANNEX 5
Table 2
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
USM School of Medical Sciences: Enrollment Projections (1986/87-1991/92)
1986/87   1987/88    1988/89    1989/90    1990/91    1991/92
Program                        I   T      I    T      I    T      I    T      I    T      I    T
MD program                    96  463   112  479   112  496   128  544   128  576   160  640
Diplomas
Medical laboratory
technology                 40   73    40  129    40  152    40  160    40  160    40  160
Medical records              -           -          10   10    10   20    10   30    10   30
Physiotherapy                -           -          10   10    10   20    10   30    10   30
Nursing                      -           -           4    4      4    8      4   12      4   12
Occupational therapy         -           -           4    4      4    8      6   12      6   12
Postgraduate
Master of science
(2 years)                  2    2      3    5      5    8      5   10    10   15    10   20
Doctorate (3 year)           -    -      -    -      1    -      2    3      2    5      3    7
Master of medicine
(4 years)                  -    -      -    -    12   12    12   24    16   40    16   56
I - Intake; T - Total.



- 44 -                                 ANNEX 5
Table 3
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IJKM Faculty of Engineering: Enrollment Projections
(1986/87-1991/92)
1986/87    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90    1990/92   1991/92
I   T      IT          I   T       I   T      I   T      I   T
Undergraduate
Mechanical engineering         16   33    25   58    25   83    30  101    60  149   70  190
Electrical and
electronic engineering      :!7  126    25  112    25  109    30  113    40  128   60  160
Chemical and process
engineering                 13   95    30   96    30  103    40  119    50  153   60  180
Civil and structural
engineering                 21   46    25   71    25   96    30  108    50  136   60  165
Subtotal               77  300   105  337   105  391   130  441   200  566  250  695
Postgraduate
Subtotal                     5          28          55         75         107        140
Total                      305         365         446         516        673        835
I - Intake.
T - Total enrollment (including repeating students).



- 45 -                              ANNEX 6
Page 1
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
University Planning, Management and Financing
Introduction
1.        The Government is implementing its recently introduced policies for
university development and operations: to increase enrollments through higher
utilization of facilities; to shift the orientation of courses towards
engineering and applied subjects; to control the development of new courses;
to improve cost-recovery by replacing student grants by loans and to improve
university management. The immediate objectives, such as improved efficiency
and increased cost-recovery, are also key objectives for long-term development
for which the preparation of strategies and plans is proceeding in step with
the implementation of current policies.
2.        A framework for establishing targets for the most important policy
objectives is set out in Table 1. A key activity would be the establishment
of new or refined instruments to measure performance or output and to develop
the use of the instruments,lin most cases on a pilot basis.  Not only would
the design of the performance indicators provide the means of objective
measure of the university performancep but the process of designing and using
them would help provide university staff with valuable insights into the steps
to be taken to implement most effectively the new policies and obtain the
maximum benefits and improvement.
Long-Term Plans
3.        The main objectives are:
(a) the preparation of long-term strategy and plans for university
development for the period beyond 1990;
(b) the review and, as necessary, improvement of management and co-
ordination of the university system; and
(c) improvement of cost-sharing to reduce the burden on Central
Government, e.g. by further extending the student loan system, by
increasing tuition fees, providing incentives for universities to
earn revenue or by encouraging the growth of the private college and
university system.
4.        A long-term plan for university development typically covers:
policies and strategies for development of the system as a whole; university
objectives; the plans for development of the individual universities; staffing
and staff development policies and plans; research development; long-term



- 46 -                              ANNEX 6
Page 2
changes in management arrangements and responsibilities; criteria and
procedures for resource allocation; policies on university accountability;
systems for monitoring of performance, and financing and cost-sharing.
5.        Within the context of national plans determined by central agencies,
the Ministry of Education, through its existing machinery, would be responsi-
ble for the selection of issues in higher education to be examined in detail,
the preparation of long-term strategies and plans, and initiation of manage-
ment improvements. The universities would be directly involved through the
University Vice-Chancellor's Conference which is chaired by the Minister of
Education and meets two or three times a year. The Conference includes the
Secretary General and Director General of MOE, their Deputies, and as appro-
priate, representatives of EPU and Treasury. The Conference has already set
up sub-committees to examine the issues of staff development, utilization of
personnel and student achievement. Other specialist sub-committees or task
groups would be formed to address detailed issues such as student projections
and manpower needs; evaluation and monitoring of programs; the use of
performance indicators and criteria; financing, and long-term management and
coordination arrangements. Recommendations on long-term development and
policies would normally be submitted to the Education Planning Committee
through its Higher Education Sub-Committee and be subject to review by central
agencies following normal procedures.
6.        The preparation of the long-term strategy and plans would proceed
through the following phases:
(a) Outline strategy, comprising:
Overall plans for enrollments and distribution by
specialization and sex
Framework for preparation of individual university development
plans
Initiation of feasibility studies and reviews, including
-    performance indicators
-    management and coordination of the system
-    costs and financing
-    external efficiency, relevance of courses to employment
needs, tracer studies.
(b) Preparation of individual university development plans, according to
the guidelines and format set out in the outline strategy. The
plans would be long-term (ten-year) and cover enrollments, research
development, staffing and staff training needs, accommodation and
equipment needs and development and operational costs.
(c) Preparation of the national coordinated strategy and plan, following
review and revision of individual university plans according to the



- 47 -                               ANNE% 6
Page 3
agreed outline strategy and national policy guidelines and
incorporation into a coordinated plan for the overall university
system.
7.        The MOE would determine the timetable for the preparation of the
plan following a seminar/workshop to be arranged jointly with the Bank in
early 1988.
8.        A key factor in both short and long term university planning and
management would be the development of performance indicators, covering the
major university activities, including:
(a)  unit costs, student:staff ratios, utilization of facilities;
(b) intake standards, graduation rates and other measures of quality,
female enrollment, graduate employment; and
(c) research output and industrial support.
9.        Technical sub-committees or task groups would address detailed
issues and prepare recommendations and draft action plans. The problems and
solutions are essentially national but, in arriving at recommendations for
solutions and policy changes, advantage would be taken of experience elsewhere
through links, exchanges, attachments and the services of specialists or
consultants.



viaTt .
IMALYSIA
OWWllVtttI0tKWEW PVRO  CT
Foranork fog Icleo.ntatloo of Plater for lltr ?Idac,tAon
Tarpt at 'nd of
Policr objective                                 origins'. *tstt  (6995)                 Fifth Plan period (De 16990)                   Interudtlats tarpta                                Maoin
1. To  orroat* earollmato                        Degttre  intake   10,630                            17,030                                        -                         Sourc     Not; table 19-S of 711th
Malaysia Plan
2.  ro tncrease proportion of              S intake Into ttaeetltn    S/                                                                                                     Source:  1W6; table 19-5 of Ptftb
enrollwatt In Eahinoertlg.           T1bnology and Applted Arts h                                                                                                        Malaysia ?lan
tchnology *nd Applied                  Sctane!  59 69
Studies
3.  to iprove uttlsottlon of
terAllttes:
(a)  Studtnttotaif ratin              tot soettble by oubiact ore.                         To be .atablah.d                  fatebitb task sroups to es-
t0bileb (a) taetroments fno d.-
(b)  Utilt-etton of phyireAl                      Not vdtlblt                             To be established                 termination Of ctudentt:stsf
feltitttea                                                                                                              ratio by eubiect area, *nd (b)
.tilitith noft coat.
gatabllab cu0v0.
4.  To -ot,4ol tet-od-crlon of             I-o1Atoitum on w  co-re.s i                Critert .and 4eahinry 1  place             tatablih tank gro-os to d,sIto
as, coursn.                            1986; criteria to b  estabitthed           for revir  and approval of pro-           criteria And machinery
posed one coour.
Introduo syatn  on trtl  basle
5.  To toproV  coet-thabtin:
(a)  locrese nuebor of at1-           Appiosotat*ly 201 of st4dents               Approiscately 80t of itodeoto
dent. assslted by 1000e          assisted by lotan #cthea                   (govrooent-spoosored) acteted
end decrease gront.                                                         by loon schee
(b)  tocrcafe number of stu-                           N/A                                 To be  stabltabed                 E0t to collect attifttls
dents enrolled to delree
prograe  in pnieata rol-
lees ltnked oitl over-
teas nitvrilties
9. To tprovo untversity manage-
_nt:
(a)  Decign and  ntrodoce                              VIA                        Partor acte indtestors *epected            Task grmops to be establisebd to
perforeante  Indicators                                                     to be  sOtabliesed and tocc,:               detersine Indicators cnd
sotdennt wastge  rta: t fele               methodology (See ite  3)
enrollment; stdetwtetaff by nob-
ject; .oIt coat by subject area            Pilot project.
(coast enter); utilization" of
resouorena; nqoy.eomt of goado-
area (tracer Studioe); research
"outpu
(b)  Rrduction of aStud nt                              /A                        To be estebliohed                           WEK to establish operattag costs
unit costs                                                                                                              by eoat center (tecolty or
sechol)
(t)  essageennt Itaiftos Of                             /A,                       Training bneds idenotified.                 Mg2 to Id.sttlfy needs. 0,01w
untlvrsity otoff                                                            gstitrog training program ter               tratnitn   nd recommend prora,ta
viewed. Rnvised trsalolg isple-
sentatd for priority noeds
(dl)  Ries, *nd reoeilon of                            N/A                        Nengemet stos   revieved,                  Not to revi   existing
as"osgment cyste.. and                                                       ecmsdto   considered and                   crretgoats end proccdcras
procedores                                                                  agreed ctboges imrpemented



- 49 -                             ANNEX 7
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Staff Training Fellow thps and
Specialist Academic Consultant Services
(Staff-years)
1988    1989    1990    1991   Total
Staff Training Fellowships
USM Schools of Engineering: /a
Postgraduate degrees /b                   25      50      55       55
Industrial attachments                     5       5       8        8
Technicians                                5       5       2        2
Selected matriculation holders /c         15      20      20       20
Subtotal                              50       80      85       85    300
USM School of Medical Sciences:
Postgraduate degrees /b                   40      45      40       35
Technicians                                5       5       5        5
Selected matriculation holders /c         30      30      30       30
Subtotal                              75       80      75      70    300
11KM Faculty of Engineering:
Postgraduate degrees                      48      51      54       59
Technicians                                5       5       7        7
Subtotal                               53      56      61       66    236
Planning and Management                      0       2       4        4     10
Total                                 178     218     225      225    846
Specialist Academic Consultant Services
USM Schools of Engineering                 2.5     2.5     2.5      2.5     10
USM School of Medical Sciences             2.5     2.5     2.5      2.5     10
UKM Faculty of Engineering                 2.5     2.5     2.5      2.5     10
Planning and management                    0.5     0.5     0.5      0.5      2
Total                                8.0      8.0     8.0      8.0     32
/a Includes all four engineering schools.
/b Includes academic staff higher education scheme and fellowships.
/c Provides for first degree training for selected matriculation holders as
potential staff.



MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELCOPMENT PROJECT
Sumary of Costs by Component and Category /a
(M  million)
Physical development                        Staff and academic development
Infra-   Con-                          Con-                          Academic       Research
struc-   struc-   Furni-   Equip-   sultant    Sub-   Fellow-    consultants    & related                   Sub-
Component                       ture    tion       ture      ment      fees     total    ships    6 specialists   activities   Other   total   Total
USt:
Schools of Engineerlng        11.3      23.5      -/b       9.7        6.5     51.0    22.5           2.5            2.0          -      27.0    78.0
School of Medical Sciences    2.2       37.8     0.7        5.0        3.3     49.0    22.5           2.5            3.0          -      28.0    77.0        U
UKM - Faculty of Engineering    4.0        8.9     0.8        6.2        1.6     21.5    17.0            2.5           0.7         0.1      20.3    41.8
Planning and management            -        -       -          -          -        -       0.7          0.5             -           -        1.2     1.2
Baseline Cost            17.5      70.2     1.5       20.9      11.4    121.5    62.7            8.0            5.7         0.1     76.5   198.0
Contingencies:
Physical                        -        2.5      -          -          -       2.5       -            -              -           -        -       2.5
Price increase                  -         -       -          -         -         -       2.5          0.3            0.2          -       3.0      3.0
Subtotal                   -        2.5      -          -         -        2.5     2.5           0.3            0.2          -       3.0      5.5
Total Project Cost       17.5      72.7     1.5       20.9      11.4    124.0    65.2            8.3            5.9         0.1     79.5   203.5
/a  September 1987 prices.
7__  Furniture costs inctuded with buildings.



-51-                                 ANNEX 8
Table 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs by Year and Type of Expenditure
(M$ million)
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  Total
Summary of Costs
Development Costs
USM:  Schoois of Engineering               7.3  30.4  13.3    -       -    51.0
School of Medical Sciences          1.7  17.3  20.8   °.2    -    49.0
Subtotal                               9.0  47.7  34.1   9.2    -   100.0
IJKM: Faculty of Engineering               0.3   5.1   9.7   6.4    -    21.5
Subtotal development costs             9.3  52.8  43.8  15.6    -   121.5
Operating Costs
USM: Schools of Engineering                 -    4.9   7.1   7.5   7.5   27.0
School of Medical Sciences           -    7.0   7.4   7.0   6.6   28.0
Subtotal                                -   11.9  14.5  14.5  14.1   55.0
UKM: Faculty of Engineering                1.4   4.0   4.4   4.9   5.6   20.3
Planning and Management                     -    0.3   0.4   0.4   0.1    1.2
Subtotal operating costs                1.4  16.2  19.3  19.8  19.8   76.5
Baseline Cost                          10.7  69.0  63.1  35.4  19.8  198.0
Contingencies:
Physical                                    -    1.2   0.9   0.4    -       2.5
Price increase                              -    0.3   0.6   0.8   1.3    3.0
Subtotal                                -    1.5   1.5   1.2   1.3    5.5
Total Project Cost                     10.7  70.5  64.6  36.6  21.1  203.5
USM - Schools of Engineering
Development Costs
Infrastructure                             3.5   7.8    -      -      -    11.3
Building construction                       -   17.6   5.9    -       -    23.5
Furniture /a                                -     -      -  
Equipment and materials                     -    3.1   6.6    -      -      9.7
Consultant fees                            3.8   1.9   0.8    -       -     6.5/b
Subtotal                               7.3  30.4  13.3    -       -    51.0
Operating Costs
Fellowships                                 -    3.7   6.0   6.4   6.4   22.5
Academic consultants and specialists        -    0.7   0.6   0.6   0.6    2.5
Research and related activities             -    0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5    2.0
Other                                             - 
Subtotal                                -    4.9   7.1   7.5   7.5   27.0
Total                                  7.3  35.3  20.4   7.5   7.5   78.0



-52 -                                ANNEX 8
Table 2
Page 2
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  Total
USM - School of Medical Sciences
Development Costs
Infrastructure                             -    1.1   1.1    -      -      2.2
Building construction                     0.1  14.5  16.7   6.5    -    37.8
Furniture                                  -     -    0.3   0.4    -       0.7
Equipment and materials                    -    1.0   2.0   2.0    -       5.0
Consultant fees                           1.6   0.7   0.7   0.3    -       3.3
Subtotal                               1.7  17.3  20.8   9.2    -    49.0
Operating Costs
Fellowships                                -    5.6   6.0   5.6   5.3   22.5
Academic consultants and specialists       -    0.6   0.7   0.6   0.6    2.5
Research and related activities            -    0.8   0.7   0.8   0.7    3.0
Other                                      -     -      -     -     -
Subtotal                                -    7.0   7.4   7.0   6.6   28.0
Total                                  1.7  24.3  28.2  16.2   6.6   77.0
UKM - Faculty of Engineering
Development.Costs
lntrastructure                             -    0.6   3.4    -      -      4.0
Building construction                      -    0.7   4.4   3.8    -       8.9
Furniture                                  -     -      -    0.8    -      0.8
Equipment and materials                    -    3.3   1.5   1.4    -       6.2
Consultant fees                           0.3   0.5   0.4   0.4    -       1.6
Subtotal                               0.3   5.1   9,7   6.4    -    21.5
t>>ratngCosts
Operainhiss                               1.3   3.3   3.5   4.1   4.8   17.0
Academic consultants and specialists       -    0.6   0.7   0.6   0.6    2.5
Research and related activities            -    0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2    0.7
Other                                     0.1    -      -     -     -      0.1
Subtotal                               1.4   4.0   4.4   4.9   5.6   20.3
Total                                  1.7   9.1  14.1  11.3   5.6   41.8
Planning and Management
Operating Costs
Fellowships                                -    0.1   0.3   0.3    -       0.7
Academic consultants and specialists       -    0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.5
Total                                   -    0.3   0.4   0.4   0.1    1.2
/a Furniture costs included with buildings.
7W M$6.5 million consultant fee includes M$2.0 million already paid.



MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total and Unit Capital Costs of Construction and Unit Areas for Project Institutions /a
Additional                Gross areas                     Total         Unit costs and aregs
target     Academic               Staff                cost of              M$/         mt/
enrollment  & communal  Boardipg  housir.g   Total    construction  M1*/r   student   student/c
(m ) ---            -    (M$ million)          (total)
USM:  Schools of      1,200       24,740    10,240/b    850    35,830/d        23.5/e    575/e  19,580/f    20.6
Engineering
School of      1,200        39,405/O    2,800*      -    42,205/h       37.8/e    681/e  31,500/f    32.8
Medical
Sciences
UKM:  Faculty of        900       14,870         -         -    14,870/i       8.9/k    538      9,900/f    16.5
Engineering
/a Excluding costs for infrastructure works, consultant's fees and contingencies.
7W Including mosque.
7-c Academic and communal oly.
7-i Excluding about 5,010 m for covered walkways.
7W  Includes covered walkways and external circulation.
7T Differences in unit cost per student are due to the fact that an entirely new campus is being provided for
the USM Schools of Engineering while facilities at the other two institutions are extensions of existing
campuses, and the medical school includes hospital treatient facilities as well as teaching accommodation.
Includes medical treatme2t facilities plus about 4,140 m  for a sports complex and animal house.
/h  Excluding about 13,280 m  for external circulation.             2
7?1  Area for new engineering building only.  An additional 4,780 m2 is available in borrowed and rented facili-
ties.  A sports hall of about 1,860 mi will also be constructed.
/k Excludes cost of rented accommodation.                                                                                W X



- 54                                ANNEX 8
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Comparative Costs of Investing in Local University Development
and Overseas Study
A. Comparative Annual Unit Costs
Local cost: prolect institutions         Overseas: total costs per student /d
H*/                                       ml$ I
student                                   student
Annualized investment cost /a   6,600        Medical:  Postgraduate       57,000
Average operational cost /b    10,200                   Undergraduate    47,000
Average subsistence, books                   Engi-      Postgraduate  37-46,000
and travel /c                  3,500       neering:   Undergraduate 22-29,000
Total/Average              20 300            Averge (Weighted)/e    35 400
B. Comparative Output Benefits of Local and Overseas Study
Local study                       Overseas study
Advantages:     Courses relevant to local          Greater experience of
needs                             universities
No special language studies
required
No need for long pertod
overseas at relatively
immature age
Research development to
support local industry
Disadvantages:  Lack of experience of              Content and research not rel-
local universities                evant to Malaysian needs
Special language studies
required
Long period spent overseas at
important stage of individ-
ual's development
/a Annualized costs based on following table of investment costs and depre-
ciation:
Period    Annualized
USM     USm    11KW             Unit   of depre-  (discount
EnR   Medical  Eng    Total    cost    ciation   rate 7.5S
-HTT on  ----o -n)  -            (year;    MS)
Infrastructure        11       2     4        17    3,800      50           300
Building /1           30      42    11        83   25,100      SO         2,000
Equipment72           10       5     6        21
(18)    (12)  (18)      (48)  14,500       10        2,100
Tech. asst.           27      28    20        75   22,700       20        2,200
Student           1,200   1,200   900    3,300
enrollment     (2,400)                  (4,500)           Total         6.600
(for infrastructure)
/1 Includes consultant fees and furniture.
77 Figures in parentheses show total requirement for equipment: these values
are used in the calculation of the annualized cost.
/b  Based on weighted average of actual operational costs at USM and UKW
1986/87.
/c  Based on PSD local scholarships.
7T  PSD 1988 budget estimates (based on current actual costs).
7ie Weighted to reflect enrollments In project institutions.
Note:  The annual unit costs of investing in local universities, including
annualized investment costs, show a signifieant saving compared with
the direct cost of sending students overseas to study in the same mis-
ture of disciplines and postgraduate and undergraduate courses. The
cost of overseas training is an underestimate insofar as the adminis-
tration costs of the overseas fellowship program are not taken into
account. The local university costs are also expected to fall as oper-
ational costs are reduced due to greater effleiency in use of
resources; this will lncresse the comparative advantage of expanding
local universities. In terms of outputs, the comparative advantages of
local study are overwhelming.



- 55 -                             ANNEX 9
Page 1
MALAYSIA
tNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Arrangements
Introduction
1.        Responsibilities for project implementation would follow normal
arrangements for management of university development. Annual development and
operating budget allocations would be determined by the central and line
agencies (Treasury, MOE, etc.) in accordance with the Fifth Plan allocations
and targets and the agreed project implementation schedules, and following
normal government procedures. The universities would implement the projects,
including procurement, contracting and payments, following normal review and
approval processes of the universities and central agencies and in accordance
with Bank guidelines.
Development Budget-Funded Activities
2.        Annual development budget allocations and targets would be agreed by
Treasury, based on proposals and progress reports prepared by the universities
and reviewed by the MOE's Development and Supplies and Higher Education
Divisions. The annual targets and budget allocations would also be agreed
with the Bank.
3.        Development funds would be allocated to the universities, normally
through Special Account(s) (para. 5), for expenditures to be reimbursed from
the loan. Procurement of civil works, equipment and consultant services would
follow normal central agency approvals and Bank procurement guidelines.
Payments under agreed contracts would be made by the universities which would
keep separate project accounts. Within both universities, the Bursars would
be responsible for payments and accounts and the Development Officers for the
detailed management of the programs of construction and equipment procurement,
and for preparation of regular progress reports. Government monitoring would
follow normal procedures.
4.        The main channels of authority, responsibility and funding are shown
in Chart 1.
Special Accounts
5.        In order to facilitate payments for the loan-financed share of
eligible expenditures for construction costs, architectural consultants and
equipment, furniture and materials, a Special Account would be established in
a commercial bank by the Accountant General, into which the Bank would deposit
advance disbursements from the loan, with sub-accounts for use by USM and
UKM. The Special Accounts would be replenished by submission of applications
by the universities, through Treasury, for loan withdrawals under the
recognized procedures.



- 56 -                             ANNEX 9
Page 2
6.        The ceiling for the initial deposit into the Special Account would
be equal to approximately the estimated average Loan expenditure over four
months of project implementation.
Operatinf Budget-Funded Activities
7.        Project activities funded by annual operating budgets include the
agreed staff training programs for the schools and departments concerned, the
programs of visiting academic specialists and consultants, research funding,
rental of accommodation (for UKM) and supply of ancillary equipment and
materials. The annual operating budget allocations would be agreed by
Treasury, following normal operating procedures, including review by MOE.
Reports and Accounts
8.        Reports on progress of implementation would be submitted to the Bank
by the universities at six-monthly intervals covering the periods ending June
30 and December 31 each year.
9.        Within each university separate accounts would be maintained for the
loan-funded project activities, i.e. the development budget activities. A
quarterly statement of expenditures would be submitted to the Bank through
Treasury (this might constitute the application for replenishment of the
Special Account). These accounts would be audited annually in accordance with
Bank requirements.
10.       Since the project-related expenditures under the operating budget
would be wholly financed by the Government, it is envisaged that the accounts
of expenditure would be maintained and audited as part of the universities
overall operating accounts. However, the project-related expenditures would
be identified so that the total project expenditure can be monitored by the
universities, central agencies and the Bank. A report on project-related
operating expenditure would be submitted to the Bank at six monthly intervals
as a part of Lhe normal reports.
Long-term Planning and Management
11.       MOE's Higher Education Division would be responsible for the
implementation of the planning and management component.



MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Status of Bank Review of Civil Works Procurement Activities
Prequalification                      Bid documents                                        Evaluation
Type of                                                Invitation      General &             Designs               report 6        Copies of
procure-    Adverti-                                  instructions,      special       Preli-         Design        recommen-        signed
ment       sement       Documents       Report           form         conditions    minaries    development         dation        contracts
USM Schools of Engineering
Infrastructure   LCB      Local        Standard        No objection  No objection  Use document          -               -        Bank no-       Forward to
08/31/86     form - no       05/19/87       with com-      agreed with                                  objection      Bank before
objection                     ments          Bank for LCB                                  08/26         w.a. sub-
03/30/87                      03/30/87                                                                    mitted.
Building works   ICB      Development  Standard        No objection  Similar to    Similar to    No objection  No objection  Forward to    Forward to
Business &   form - no       09/01/87       Medical        Medical        with com-      06/24/87       Bank for ap-  Bank before
local        objection                      School ICB    School ICB    ments                           proval prior  w.a. sub-
04/15/87     03/30/87                       documents      documents      03/30/87                      to award       mitted
USX School of Medical Sciences
Sports complex   LCB      Local             -               -         No objection  Use document  No objection  Forward           Forward to    Forward to
04/01/87                                    with com-      agreed with   03/30/87        final to       Bank for       Bank before
ments          Bank for LCB                  Bank for       approval       w.a. sub-
03/30/87                                     records        postaward      mitted
Rostel block     LCB      Local              -              -         No objection  Use document  No objection  Forward           Forward to    Forward to
04/01/87                                    with com-      agreed with   03/30/87        final to       Bank for       Bank before
ments          Bank for LCB                  Bank for       approval       w.a. sub-
03/30/87                                     records        postaward      mitted
Main building    ICB      Development  Revised form   No objection  No objection  No objection  No objection  No objection  Forward to    Forward to
Business &   w/M&E - no      05/01/87       with com-      with com-      03/30/87       06/24/87       Bank for ap-  Bank before
local        objection                      ments          ments                                        proval prior  w.a. sub-
04/15/87     03/30/87                       07/14/87       07/14/87                                     to award       mitted
UKM Faculty of Engineering
Infrastructure   ICB      Development  Forward to      Forward to    Base on         Base on USM   Forward to    Forward to    Forward to    Forward to
and building            Business &   Bank for ap-   Bank for ap-  Bank's Stan-  documents         Bank for ap-  Bank for ap-  BanF for ap-  Bank before
works                   local        proval prior   proval prior  dard Bid                        proval prior  proval prior  proval prior  w.a. sub-
02/88        to distribu-   to tender       Documents                     to further    to tender       to award       mitted
tion                                                        development
w.a. - withdrawal application.
,-. 1o



MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Responsibilties: Showing Main Channels For Information,Approvals and Finance
I.B.R.D.
APPLICATION FOR A        REPORTS I
LOAN WITHDRAWALS TO                 AND I
REPLENISH SPECIAL *      APPROVALS
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION                   ACCOUNT                     |
.... .... .. ...... ... ...... ..D
TREASURY                     LOAN DISBURSEMENT
PSD                 FD       HD DDTREASURY                                             3TO SPECIAL ACCOUNT
*                    _ .         .I.                                 
Proposals for Annual Development and
. _               ....|              VICE-CHANCELLOR|
Operating Budget Allocations.
UNIVERSITIES
Annual Operating Budget Allocation   aDEVELOPASENTEI
_                 o                | PROJECT SCHOOLS
.  . .  . .  . .  . .  . . .  . .  .  ... _1. _  - - --    -  _
Annual Expenditure on Staff Training Scheme
Financing                 Development Budget
Operating Budget                                      PAYMENTS FOR CIVIL
WOR1<S.EQUIPMENT                             ;:
Applications for Loan Withdrawal                    AND CONSULTANTS FEES
--..---..--  Proposals for Annual Budget Allocation
Reporfing  ~- mm      -
Abbreviations FD=Finance/HED=Higher Education/DSD=Development & Supplies Division/PSD=Public Service Department  Ek/w400736



- 59 -
MALAYSIA                                                                ANNR 9
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                          Chart 2
USM Schools of Engineering                                                          Page I
Implementation Schedule
_.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~48                                                          19 *87.0
2   3   4 _        2   3   4           42   3   4        2   3   4
enrWutr:
Preporon d tender Cocunments                    m1   l
Peuaf     dlo ofcontroctofs                         1
Bank W*ftw   apprOval d prequ tallon repot           t
Tender period                                          l 
Evoltolwn of tenders
Assessment of endern & approval of
recommendations
USM Tender Board                                        6
World Bank                                               1
Award d contra                                             D
Mobilization by contractor                                 O
Construction
Guarantee perIod
Micn buildings. stage 1
Preporation d tender docufef ts
Prequdaloot  ot contractor.
Bank review & approvol of prequallcahon report            a
Bonk review & approval of tender documents                4
Tender period
Evduotion of tenders
Assessment of tendon & approvol of
recommendations
UISM Tender Board
World Bank                                                       a
Awardt ocotract                                                    g
MobIlWzIon by controctor
Construction:
Sudent hodels                            * !
Acodemnc er.vic burlKng.
ctLe tatre. staff sudent center.
drnt deartment. staff housin catrms
Maram, adnmaWttcn block mosque
Guarantee period
Equipment and furihture procurement
repaona   lf I9
Bank rview and approval of lists
Prepaation O specifications and tender documents
Bank revew ond approval of specs and tender
documer      , 
Adverisment in  vlopm   uwiness                                      (15)
Tender pertod
EvaluaFton of tenders
Asement of ter. and opprovl of
reooomnuroiaont'
Univest Tender Board
Wold Bonrk
Sigit  Of oond t clpkahn orders 
h0agafWon, and tes-n3
World Bonk-40073:i



- 60 -                                              ANE   9
Chart 2
MALAYSIA                                              Page 2
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
USM School of Medical Sciences
Implementation Schedule
1987               1988               1989                1990
o   1  2   3   4i        2   3   4    1   2   3   4   1   2   3    4_
Consructlro n_ _                                            _ _ _          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                          _    _
Spats conplex and dudent hostel
Preporanton of tender documents
Regtsraton of controctors
Yender pertd                                                   O              t
Evaduaion of tenders                                            It
Assessmnnt of tenders and approval
of reommndain by USM
Award of contraot I
Mobtifzaflon by controctors                                                             n
C   Iutlon o? sports comple s1 W
Cansuc to  dsudent hostel
Guarantee paodos                                                                             -E
Mahn bulidtng'
Preparaton of tender documents
Prenualllacalon of controctors
Bank revlew & approval of prequoallication report          i
Bank review and approval of tender documents               O
Tencter perkod
Evduation ot tenders
Assessment of tenders & approval ot
recommendations.
USM Tender Board
W,41d Bank
Award of contract                                                   a
Moolikzatlon by controctor                                           6
Constructon                             E 1
Guarontee perid_
Equlpment and furniture procurement
Preparattot. of lists
Bank review and opprovd of Usts
Preparatio of specifications and tender documents
Bank review and approval of specs and tender                    U
documents
Adveent In Develpment Busness
Tender period
Evauotbon of tenders
Asewssent o tenders and approval of
recommendions:
Unirty Tender Board                                                        O
World Bank                                                                  O
Signing d controcts/pladng orders                                             a
Monucthg  nd del_                                                                      _  
Installotion and testng                          _                                               - -   8
Evaluatlon reports & contrOcht to be approved by Bank after aword & signing but before first wihdrawal from the Loon uncder
the oontracts
World Bank-40073-2



- 61-                                                      ANNrx 2
rage 3
MALAYSIA
UNIVERT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UKM Facufy of Engineering & Sports Haol
Implementation Schedule
19.7               '-U                 MOe               199
1  2    3   4   i   2   3  4          4   2   34    4    2   3   4
Preparalln f coultant TC an  drwIng up od
Bank ewvIw       apprOvalofi TOR Cnd shoruilst
Nollco  oft thortiled frmns 
Pptraon of proposaos Dy fms
Eaion of proposals
Ngotolottan with recqyMnWded firm and Bat.
1 ad oaprova d evauto Dpt
COnhi wcttInn
reparotion Of preliry designs
Bank review amd appovda
Preparoaton d working drawngs ond ender 
documents
Bonk review and apprval of tend  documents
Pequallootian Of contracor
Bank review and approvl of prequolflobn report 
Tender period
EvalutuM  ol tenders
A 5essmnt of tendWOs & opprovol of
reoommeondtonti:
r Tender Board
World Bank                                                                     P
Award of moract                                                                  I
Moblzoon by conttractor
Quarantff perIod
Equlmenvt and mflure procrment
Preoarton of lI _t
Bank review an approva ot llts ,
PreparatIon of specIcaton anc tender documes
8ank review and approvaW of specs a  tender
documents
disment In iDerveloprnent Oness                           *(8(31)                                    (ta )
Tende pefrod
Evatwon dt tendrs_
Assessment of Udeand approvas of
renommerutIo
Unlvesly Tende Board
WorldSank                                                                                                     a 
SIgnIg of catrotplclng o*ders
MouWgctwtearwdery
Instlon and testling
Word SaOnk-400738



- 62 -                             ANNEX 10
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements               Disbursement profiles
IBRD          Amount per  Cumulative       Malaysia      East Asia and Pacific
fiscal year        semester   Amount   %   5th education   regional education
and semester      -- (US$ million) --         project /a         projecXs /a
1988
1              0.0        0.0     0         0                   0
2               1.1       1.1      2        1                   2
1989
1              5.2        6.3    13         3                   4
2               7.6      13.9    28        10                   8
1990
1             11.0       24.9    52        20                  14
2              9.0       33.9    70        33                  22
1991
1              8.1       42.0    87        46                  31
2               3.1      45.1    94        58                  42
1992
1               1.8      46.9    97        70                  52
2               1.0      47.9    99        82                  61
1993
1              0.3       48.2   100        93                  69
/a  Most recently completed education project in Malaysia (Loan 1657-MA) which
closed on schedule on June 30, 1985.
/b  Based on 26 projects and representing the initial 5-1/2 years of an aver-
age disbursement period of 9 years.



- 63 -                             ANNEX 11
Page 1
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Official Publications
A.1  Malaysia, Fifth Malaysia Plan 1986-1990
A.2  Malaysia, Labor and Manpower Report 1983/84, Ministry of Labor, 1985
(308 pp)
A.3  Malaysia, Evaluation of Training for Family Health Services in
Peninsular Malaysia, Ministry of Health, September 1985
A.4  Malaysia, Health Sector Training and Manpower Development, Ministry
of Health, October 1985
B. Reports and Studies Related to Manpower Development and Training
B.1  Government of Malaysia/MIDA and UNDP, Manpower and Training:  Medium-
and Long-Term Industrial Master Plan, Malaysia Volume III, Part 5,
August, 1985 (88 pp and annexes)
B.2  Malaysia, Health Services Financing Study, Final Report.  Prepared by
Westinghouse Health Systems in collaboration with Study Task Force
and EPU, September 1985 (420 pp)
B.3  Higher Education and Employment in Malaysia:  The Experience of
Graduates, University of Malaya/IIEP, December 1984
C. Report and Working Papers Related to University Development
C.1  Working Papers (summarized) prepared by Mission;
1. Higher Level Manpower Supply and Demand
2. University Development
3. University Costs and Finance
4. UKM: Proposed Second Loop Development
5. USM: Engineering Campus
6. USM: School of Medical Sciences
7. University Planning, Management and Financing.
C.2  UKM, Second Loop Development Program:  Vol. I and II, October 1986
Revised Physical Development Program 1987-1990, June 1987
C.3  USM, School of Medical Sciences:  Planning Papers, July 1986-June
1987



- 64-                                ANNEX 11
Page 2
C.4  USM, Schools of Engineering:  Planning Papers, July 1986-June 1987
D. Relevant World Bank Reports
Moock, P. Education in Malaysia: Review of Expenditure and Discussion of
Issues, Education and Training Series Discussion Paper, Report No. EDT 11,
December 1985.
Bowman, Millot, Schiefelbein. Political Economy of Public Support of Higher
Education: Studies in Malaysia (Part III, Chapters 10-12).



IBRD 20253
100m                                4t1*                                'or                                  idr                                  104 
ro &'14,104                                                                                       MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Podong 840
JcltQ*      T  H    A    I L  A    N    D
Ko    4; q           ,,se-                                                                                                     - >.sdovois of &Vmwi.
A         USM - Soor' oftEO Mdke1 Si
\ JdroX t*_X 1 lunP01 ti3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UKMt Folt o'I& f Enghleorig
orrgongq   ,      <)                       '}     @        $ K Obtog                                    FEDERAL ROADS
Mengong    Alor Solar                                                          _________ ~~~~~~~~~~~OrTHER -ROADS
-'\--.i  .-+~ RAILWAYS
r\  l                           2 ,_r's        NPute                        - - ~ ---- STATE BOUNDARIES
faling                                        Onoh -\J  '-   \  - 2tj    A=/  Ro a               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
sungew",                                                                                                        0         2       E 0
A                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
Bumboog L   m        |O
GeorgeT .                                                                              ?        Jtrangau                          KILOMETERS
-X                                                                                              T  'rt(\renggottu
-          ER A >.!                    K   I   A      r A  V\
~~5           ~~KuoloKurc     ur [u                         s,                                       r R fA  ; G GA  IV    \5
Port Weld    Daung Lt                                                          .n
Ka ,ago                   .Ia                                    -\  i 
omeron                                     c"---~~Jranul4-
Hitir Pero                                                                                  N)~~~tililnd
Pant             v      >                     K.OL,pisiJCu
\> > 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   S   y}ungel gaging
Hilir Per ek.......-%                 )     Roub                                               Kuon
Sabakt R. jz       N 9 X           fi P       A4 H,J )
Toniong Koro                                                      h
KudoSeooor   
Icyth"#9W$ P,p cnnn p sgnKuolo.Pilch
C>rerar t>8R.; \ ffi __xr / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EndJu
n. 515.8 CScS*tc ic I  nS\y) 
Padcy~ osf Pt T W5oid 8515w 
rlJJIFlw" c°p.*°k                     iNcksor         u  Pta'.
Ccyns,insp The dqnscn.1iobc,s~;JrM
THAILADs The lspscK, e   .
WR (4DE'MOCRAtiC /Me                                                                        l                          10/;
'1A~    KAMPLICHEA),
VENAT                     PHILIPPINES  -
A   1   A-Y~  s
't    *~4       f/Coomg
e4W     f    ~ANGAPC*f    t      A.,.ANIAN               S U m a t e  r a
I N D   O    N   E  S   I  A                                             p2.                               IqJY
JULY 1987



