Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14764
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2887-MA)
JUNE 30, 1995
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Ringgit (M$)
US$1.00 = M$2.50
(July 1987)
GLOSSARY
EPU     -    Economic Planning Unit
MOE     -    Ministry of Education
PCR     -    Project Completion Report
R&D     -    Research and Development
SAR     -    Staff Appraisal Report
TA      -    Technical Assistance
UKM     -    National University of Malaysia
USM     -    University of Science, Malaysia
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
July - June



FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESI)ENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Malaysia
University Development Project (Loan 2887-MA)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Malaysia University
Development project (Loan 2887-MA, approved in FY88). Parts I and III were prepared by
the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office and give an adequate assessment of project history
and results. Part II, prepared by the government, is in substantive agreement with Parts I and
111.
The project was to provide physical facilities to expand capacities in
engineering and medical science education at the University of Science and the National
University of Malaysia. A separate component was designed to strengthen the capacity of the
Ministry of Education in planning and managing the higher education subsector.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory, although enrollment growth and
staff development are proceeding at a slower pace than in the optimistic appraisal assumptions.
While the planning and management component remained largely unimplemented, there was a
modest amount of institutional development in the other parts of the project. Sustainability of
project achievements is rated as likely.
Loan covenants were fulfilled except for the establishment of Special Accounts
(which was dispensed with) and the preparation of a university development and finance plan
(which was substituted by the relevant chapter in the Sixth Plan-1990-94). Both
modifications were agreed with the Bank.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT  COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2887-MA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE       .     .     .     .     .     .    .     .     .     .    .     .     .    .    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     . i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............. .                                                iii
PART  I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S  PERSPECTIVE
A.   Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          1
Sector Development  Objectives    . . . . . . . . . . . .                       1
Policy Context  of  the Project    . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
B.   Project  Objectives  and Description   . . . . . . . . .    3
Project  Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Components  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
C.   Project  Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . .    5
Project  Concept    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
Design  of  Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
D.   Project  Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Summary  .....................   9
Physical Aspects .................. . 11
USM .....................                                                   11
UKM .....................   12
Quality of Risk  Identification  . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
Other  Factors Affecting  Implementation  . . . . . . . .  14
E.   Project  Costs  and Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . .  14
F.   Project  Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Physical Plant ..................    15
Student Enrollment ..................  15
Staff Development .................. 16
Development  of New Courses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Research.. ................ 18
University Planning and Management  . . . . . . . . . .  18
Changes  in Objectives  During  Implementation   . . . . .  19
This docutment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|oTicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l



G.  Project Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Sectoral Growth Policies    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Labor Market    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
The Environment   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Technology    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Equity     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  21
H.  Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
I.  Bank Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
J.  Borrower Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
K.  Project Relationships    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
L.  Services of Consultants and Contractors    . . . . . .  25
M.  Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . . .  25
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   27
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION    . . . . . . . . . . .  31
Table 1.  Related Education Projects in Malaysia   . . . .  31
Table 2.  Project Time-Table   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
Table 3.  Disbursement of Loan Proceeds    . . . . . . . .  33
(a) Disbursements Planned and Actual  (by FY)    . . . .  33
(b) Disbursements Planned and Actual  (by Category)                33
Table 4.  Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
(a) UKM Fellowship Training Program   . . . . . . . . .  34
(b) Summary of UKM Fellowship Program   . . . . . . . .  34
Table 5.  Project Costs    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
Table 6.  Project Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
(a) Direct Benefits--    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
(i)  Student Enrollment at USM and UKM    . . . . . .  36
(ii) UKM Engineering Student Enrollment Growth    . .  36
(iii) Graduates from Project Institutions   . . . . .  37
(b) Sector Impact--        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
(i) Research Program Summary
UKM Faculty of Engineering    . . . . . . . . . .  38
(ii) MOE Budget--Sub-sector Shares before and After
Project Implementation    . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
Table 7.  Status of Covenants    . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
Table 8.  Use of Bank Resources:   . . . . . . . . . . . .  42
(a) Bank Staff Time Inputs    . . . . . . . . . . . . .  42
(b) Mission Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  42
Appendix:   Comments from the Borrower    . . . . . . . . .  43
MAP IBRD 20253



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2887-MA)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report on the Malaysia University
Development Project (Loan 2887-MA) for which a loan of US$48.2
million was approved on 24 November,  1987.   The Loan became
effective on 25 February, 1988 and the project was considered
completed on 31 December, 1992, one year beyond the originally
scheduled Completion Date. The Closing Date for the Loan Account
was maintained at 31 December, 1992, but, in order to pay
commitments already entered into, the Account was left open until
14 May, 1993 when an undisbursed balance of US$ 1.66 million wa
canceled.
The project was designed to provide:
(a) Facilities to expand higher education in Engineering and
Medical   Sciences   engineering   education   at   two
universities--the University of Science, Malaysia (USM)
and the National University of Malaysia (UKM);
(b) Fellowships, specialist services and research and related
expenditure for staff training and academic and research
development at the two universities; and
(c) Fellowships and specialist services to improve planning
for university development and to strengthen university
management.
Parts I and III of the PCR have been prepared by the Bank and
are based on:
(a) review of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) (Report No.
6906-MA) of October 14, 1987, the President's Report, the
Bank's correspondence files and related documents
pertaining to this project;
(b) discussions with Bank staff familiar with the project;
and
(c) a visit to Malaysia and the three project sites by a Bank
Completion Mission (comprising two persons) in April
1994, discussions that this mission held with officials
of the Economic Planning Unit (EPU), Treasury, and the
Ministry of Education (MOE) as well as the two
universities and the materials supplied by these
i



officials and institutions.   The assistance of these
officials is gratefully acknowledged by the Completion
Mission.
As is customary with PCRs, a draft of Parts I and III was sent
to the Borrower for comment. Comments were received from USM in
July 1994 and the draft was amended accordingly.   Part II was
prepared by the Borrower.
ii



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2887-MA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.   A  Loan  of  US$48.2  million  for  the  Malaysia  University
Development Project (Loan 2887-MA) was approved in November 1987
and became effective on 25 February,  1988.   The project was
considered completed on 31 December, 1992, one year beyond the
originally scheduled Completion Date, and the Loan Account was
closed on 31 December, 1992 as originally planned.
2.   Project Background.  The project reflected the high priority
accorded by Malaysia to improving and expanding higher education,
with emphasis on support to its rapidly growing manufacturing
industry, and to improving the rural and community health service.
3.   Project  Oblectives  and  Content.    Following  Bank-country
discussions in 1986, a project was designed to provide:
a.   Facilities to expand enrollments in Medical Sciences and
Engineering at the University of Science, Malaysia (USM)
and in Engineering at the National University of Malaysia
(UKM);
b.   Fellowships for staff training, specialist services and
research   expenditure   for   academic   and   research
development at the two universities; and
c.   Fellowships  and  specialist  services  to  assist  the
Ministry of Education (MOE) to prepare a national long
term plan for higher education development and finance
after 1990, to strengthen university management and to
conduct various related studies.
4.   Project Financing Arrangements.   The project, estimated to
cost US$81.4 million, had an unusual financing arrangement. Some
61% of project cost was for hardware (buildings etc.) and the rest
covered technical assistance  (TA) .  The Loan proceeds were to
finance 97% of the hardware expenditure and about 90% of the
estimated local costs of the project, while the TA program--staff
training, expert services and related operating expenditure (60% of
the foreign cost), was to be financed entirely by the Borrower.
The explanation was that the Government required financing only for
its capital expenditure and fellowships came under its recurrent
budget and could not be transferred to the development budget
because of the prescribed ceiling on the Fifth Plan budget. The
iii



Borrower was expected to maintain separate records and accounts for
the purely Government-financed parts of the Project.
5.   Project Implementation.       The hardware components of the
project were successfully implemented.   At USM, with the good
Master Plans for both campuses, there was an early start on working
designs and construction; at UKM, despite a late start on design
work, poor initial cost estimates and late agreement with the
central Government on the budget, the buildings were provided only
one year late.   Minor problems of design and workmanship were
experienced on the three campuses, especially at UKM, but generally
the physical plant provided is satisfactory.
6.   The TA components relating to staff training were implemented
somewhat more slowly than planned.   The appraisal target of an
annual average of 211 fellowship staff years over the four-year
period 1998-91 proved unrealistic.   At UKM, the achievement was
only 8.6 per year compared to a target of 59; at USM, there were 39
reported to be on fellowships in 1990 compared to a target of 75 in
Engineering. However, the training program is continuing (albeit
spread over a longer period).
7.   The MOE component was practically not implemented--the long-
term plan was not prepared; instead, the Bank accepted the higher
education contribution to the Sixth Malaysia Plan (1991-95) as
fulfilling the Loan Agreement covenant on this matter. The agreed
studies were not done. Other useful studies were undertaken and
MOE held a seminar in 1992 on higher education planning and another
in 1993 on university management that provided useful perspectives.
8.   Prolect Results.  Student enrollment in Engineering has grown
at a much slower pace than foreseen. The shortfall in Engineering
enrollments is attributed mainly to staff constraints and the fact
that the number of students qualified for admission into degree
programs had been over-estimated at appraisal.   There was also
strong competition for qualified candidates from other local
institutions, other programs such as Business Management and
overseas universities.   At USM in 1993-94,  the enrollment  in
engineering degree programs was 1,100, compared to the original
target of 1,200, and, at UKM, 476 compared to a target of 1,200
students. In medicine at USM, the enrollment in 1992-93 was 875
compared to the target of 1,200. It is expected that the appraisal
targets will be achieved within a few years.
9.   In staff development, contrary to the appraisal finding that
the status of university teachers was competitive, attrition has
occurred among the more senior teachers--engineering and medical
teaching staff--especially into the private sector.   Fellowship
holders did advanced degrees mainly in the UK and Australia and are
satisfied with their training and exposure to computer-based
operations and to new programs of training and equipment.
iv



10.  The development of new courses has proceeded satisfactorily.
The School of Medical Sciences has added a new diploma program in
Nursing, broadened the specializations offered in the Master of
Medicine program and expanded its diploma program in medical
laboratory technology. At UKM, a business course has been added to
assist in promoting entrepreneurial attitudes and capacity among
the students. Both Engineering campuses are emphasizing Computer
Assisted Design and Computer Assisted Management in their programs
and are establishing distance education programs to meet the needs
of persons who cannot leave their jobs.
11. The research program is also achieving its objective of
relevance to critical problems in Engineering and Medicine. The
School of Medical Sciences has patented low-cost, easily operated
diagnostic kits for dengue fever and typhoid--an outstanding public
health achievement.    Firms,  Government  departments  and other
agencies cooperate closely with UKM in research.
12. Prolect Impact. The project has had modest but crucial impact
on growth in higher education. Since 1986, growth in university
enrollments nationwide has outstripped the rate of growth in
science and technology.  Thus, the project has helped to reduce
what has been a decline in the share of science and technology in
total enrollment between 1986 and 1994 in Malaysian institutions.
13. With the current economic growth, employment of graduates in
engineering and medicine is assured.  The project has reinforced
collaborative interaction between the university and employers.
Systematic tracing of graduates will be needed to assist in
adjusting training to labor market changes. The project will also
have substantial environmental impact.  The engineering training
and research programs at UKM, for example, address environmental
issues, including atmospheric and noise pollution, non-destructive
land use, better use of local materials and reduced fuel
consumption.   The project,  through training and research,  is
strengthening country capacity in technology, especially in
manufacturing, industry and physical infrastructure.
14. With the ready availability of student loans nowadays,
students do not, for reasons of poverty, need to decline university
places. Thus the project is able to widen opportunities for upward
mobility to a wide spectrum of Malaysian students and contribute to
income growth and distribution.   The project is also helping to
open up opportunities to women in terms of both academic teaching
careers and training places. Female enrollment is low in
Engineering--at UKM, about 10% in Electrical and Electronics and
less than 5% in the other three fields. However, in medicine at
USM it is about 60% at undergraduate level and 50% at post graduate
level. The number of women on the teaching staff in Engineering is
small but is expected to grow.  The fellowship awards under the
project at UKM show no discrimination against women.
v



15.  Project Cost and Financincr.  As the costs incurred under the
purely Borrower-financed elements have not been separately
identified, it is not possible to determine the actual cost of TA
and the cost and financing of the whole project.
16.  There was a small cost underrun of 4% in Engineering and an overrun
of 3.4W on the Medical Sciences complex, giving a net underrun of 0.3%
at USM on the physical components.  At UKM, for reasons of delay and
changes in scope, there was a cost overrun of about 85.6W. Thus, on
physical components there was an overall cost overrun of 14.8 percent.
In view of the shortfalls in the TA program and, despite the increase in
Government financing for the physical plant cost overrun at UKM, the
project has been financed by the Loan to a greater degree than originally
planned.
17.  Sustainability of Pro!ect Benefits. The project benefits are fully
sustainable. The additional places provided under the project amounted
to slightly under 7% of the total higher education enrollment in 1992-93.
The higher education system is well within the financial means of
Malaysia, accounting for only 14% of the education budget in 1993 and
1994 by comparison with 16% in 1986 and 1987. Certain measures adopted
by Government--increases in fees and reduction of scholarships in favor
of loans--will reduce the sub-sector burden on the national budget.
Institutionally, all project programs and facilities can be well managed
and maintained.
18. Bank Performance. Borrower officials expressed appreciation
of the valuable dialogue with the Bank on this project,
particularly the briefing provided on procurement guidelines and
the comments on architectural  designs.   The Bank also wisely
advised at the project concept stage against a proposed "turnkey
contract" for procuring the UKM physical facilities and agreed to
the use of the established university offices for project
management. During implementation, the Bank was sensitive to the
constraints under which the Government was operating and was
flexible in a positive way, accepting (a) the non-establishment of
Special Accounts, (b) the Sixth Plan contribution in lieu of the
required long term higher education plan and (c) other measures to
speed up implementation.
19. However, there were weaknesses in project preparation,
appraisal and supervision. The identification of project risks at
appraisal was not well done. The sole risk identified--financial
sustainability--proved to be a non-issue. The project as designed,
prepared and appraised showed, in hindsight, the need for closer
and more precise attention to the flow of secondary school output,
to the real competitiveness in the labor market of university
teachers and the potential for attrition and to the preparation and
programming of the university management and planning component.
20.  Supervision missions were reasonably well spaced but tended to
comprise chiefly architects and did not pay nearly enough attention
at an early stage to the TA component and the need to brief the
vi



Borrower as to its project importance--the principal means by which
the Government was providing its necessary contribution to project
financing--and the way in which the recording and accounting data
should be assembled.
21.  Borrower  Performance.    The  Borrower  performed  well  in
preparing and implementing the physical components and in servicing
the fellowship programs. Yet, there were some weaknesses:
a.   the  protracted  indecision  on  the  part  of  central
government agencies and UKM on the budget for the UKM
physical facilities;
b.   failure to keep separate records of TA expenditures; and
c.   insufficient liaison between the project office and the
academic staff at UKM on the facilities being provided.
22.  Project Relationships.   The Bank maintained useful contact
with the British Council and Asian Development Bank during project
generation and excellent relations with the Borrower (at the level
of participating universities and the ministries) on this project.
23. Lessons Learned. This project experience has provided several
lessons, some of which have been taught by previous projects:
a.   the importance of Borrower commitment or "ownership" of
the project (which was evident in the successful
implementation of the two university components that were
the Borrower's idea as contrasted with the relative
failure of the university management and planning
component that was predominantly the Bank's idea);
b.   the need to adopt special measures, where loan proceeds
are not applied to essential project components, to
ensure that these components and the obligations that
they entail are recognized by implementing agencies as
central rather than complementary items and to attend to
these during supervision;
c.   the value of detailed planning and programming as a basis
for each project component so as to ensure that it can be
implemented within the time and resources intended--a
positive example being the USM physical planning and a
negative example being the work on forecasting student
enrollment, staff training and staff attrition and the
university management and planning component;
d.   the  importance of building  into projects  concerning
specific manpower training programs discrete arrangements
for tracer studies of graduates; and
vii



e.   the need to ensure that Bank missions are staffed with
the requisite expertise as reflected in the proposed
project content--in this case, a university institution
building expert familiar with Bank operations (in
appraisal of the project) and similar expertise on
supervision missions to give due attention to the
institution building components.
viii



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 2887-MA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Identity
Name            :   University Development Project
Loan Number    :   2887-MA
RVP Unit        :   East Asia Region--Country Department I
Country         :   Malaysia
Sector          :    Population and Human Resources/Education
Sub-sector           Education/Higher Education
A. Background
1.   By 1987 it had become clear that overall Malaysian economic
growth had slowed down from the 8% annual rate of the 1970s to less
than 2% in 1986. However, manufacturing had experienced growth of
nearly 5% per year over the period 1981-85.  Apart from several
promotional measures at the macro level, such as a review of public
sector enterprises and a program of privatization, the Government
prepared an Industrial Master Plan which supported rapid growth in
export-oriented manufacturing, the sector that was counted upon to
lead the economic recovery. For this, the proportion of high level
manpower in the labor force (engineers and managers, particularly)
needed to be increased. The Fifth Malaysian Plan (1986-81) also
recognized a need for doctors especially in rural areas.   The
annual local output of engineers in 1986 was actually less than
1,000 and heavily skewed in favor of civil engineering, to the
relative neglect of mechanical, electrical and production types.
The Government anticipated a net increase of 3,500 per year in the
number of engineers and technicians in employment over the decade
1986-95.
Sector Development Obiectives
2.   In the field of higher education, the Government planned to:
a)   render training and research programs more responsive to
the labor markets;



b)   increase the technology/applied science share of total
enrollment;
c)   promote self-employment of graduates;
d)   raise the enrollment rates from 4% which was low by
comparison with other NICs;
e)   control the introduction of new courses;
f)   raise the utilization rate for existing facilities;
g)   expand post-graduate and research training in Malaysia;
and
h)   pursue greater cost recovery--about 20% of the student
sponsorship by Government was in the form of loans and
the rest in scholarships; the Government aimed at
reversing this to 20% in scholarships and 80% in loans.
3.     The 5th Plan aimed at expanding engineering education to
provide an output of 2,400 graduates by 1995 which, together with
1,500 Malaysian engineers expected from overseas institutions,
would meet the anticipated manpower requirement. Included in these
projections was an increase in output from the University Sains
Malaysia (University of Science, Malaysia [USM]) from zero in 1986
to 300 per year by 1995 and simultaneously at University Kebangsaan
Malaysia (National University of Malaysia [UKM]) from 50 to 250.
4.   The Government also set itself an eventual target of one
doctor for every 2,000 of the population by the year 2000, compared
to the existing ratio of 1:2,650. By 1995, the ratio was intended
to reach 1:2,200.   Because of deficiencies in service in rural
areas, the Government planned to prepare doctors who would be
motivated to work in rural areas and in community health.
Expansion of national training capacity was therefore envisaged so
as to raise the output of doctors from 2,500 over the period of the
5th Plan to 3,200 over the period after the 6th Plan (1991-95).
Policy Context of the Prolect
5.   Higher education expansion was occurring apace, but without a
long range perspective to guide decision making on the quantitative
and qualitative directions of development.   The Government was
seeking to control unit costs, to relate the system better to
manpower needs and to render the system more efficient.   Thus,
there was need to undertake a thorough re-thinking of the sub-
sector so as to provide a basis for sound policies and investments
in the post 1990 era.
6.   Project discussions began early in 1986 and were continued
through missions in June-July and November. With the removal of
2



some budgetary uncertainties in February 1987, processing continued
with a preparation assistance mission in March and appraisal in
June of 1987. The agreed project represented a well-considered and
highly selective response to the shortages in high level manpower
in two critical areas--engineering and medicine--expanding local
training and research in these fields, thus reducing Malaysian
dependence on expensive overseas training and helping in the growth
of the vital manufacturing sector.
B. Project Objectives and Description
Prolect Objectives
7.   The objectives of the project as agreed were:
a)   expansion of university enrollment  capacity to meet
priority manpower needs in areas of engineering related
to industrial development and in medical sciences related
to rural and community health; and
b)   strengthening of the management of university operations
and the planning of university development.
8.   The agreed project was therefore to provide:
a)   academic,   administration  and  communal  facilities,
furniture, equipment and materials and related staff
training and other technical assistance to:
i)   expand USM by assisting in developing the Schools
of Engineering at Sri Iskandar, Perak for an
eventual enrollment of 2,000 students and the
School of Medical Sciences at Kubang Kerian,
Kelantan to integrate the School in one campus and
increase enrollment from 550 to 1,200; and
ii) assist the Faculty of Engineering of UKM to expand
enrollments from about 300 to an eventual 1,200;
and
b)   technical assistance to the Ministry of Education to:
i)   establish  long-term  plans  and  strategies  for
university development, operations and financing
for the period after 1990, and
ii) initiate improvements in university management,
including the establishment of improved systems and
procedures.
3



The project cost was estimated at US$81.4 million to be financed by
a Bank Loan of US$48.2 million and Government financing of US$33.2
million.
Components
9.   The project components comprised the following:
Agency or                                          Educational Purposes and Targets   Technical Assistance Program
Institution          Physical Plant
PART A
USM: (i) Schools    Infrastructure, buildings,    Diploma, Bachelors degree and     Funding for the benefit of all four
of Engineering,     equipment, furniture for      Post-Graduate training and        Schools of Engineering (Mechanical,
Perak.               Schools of Mechanical and     research;                        Civil, Electrical/Electronic and
Civil Engineering.                                             Chemical) for:
Emphasis on computer-aided       (a) about 300 staff years (s.y.) of
design, computer-modelling, etc.;  fellowships for post-graduate and other
training overseas to increase academic
Enrollment of about 560 in the   staff from 60 to about 120 by 1990;
Bachelors program, 240 in        (b) about 10 s.y. of long- and short-term
diploma program and an           assignments of experienced staff from
unspecified number in post-      overseas; and
graduate programs'               (c) costs of research development in
fields relevant to industrial design.
USM: (ii) School     Civil works, equipment, and    Increase enrollment from 550 to    Funding for:
of Medical          furniture for the School of    1,200 students.                  (a) about 300 s.y. of fellowships;
Sciences, Kelantan.   Medical Sciences, including    Programs would include the MD.   (b) about 10 s.y. of assignment of
a hostel for 360 students, a  the existing diploma in medical  experienced staff from overseas; and
small sports complex and an   laboratory technology, and new   (c) research and pilot projects.
animal house.                 diploma and post-graduate
courses such as the Masters in
Medicine. There would be a
rural orientation.
PART B
UKM: Faculty of    Civil works and equipment    Increase enrollment from 300 to    Funding tor:
Engineering          for Engineering Departments   about 1,000 undergraduate and    (a) about 240 s.y. of fellowships;
as follows: Mechanical and    200 post-graduate students.      (b) about 10 s.y. of expert services; and
Materials; Electrical and                                      (c) support costs for research related to
Electronics and Systems;                                       manufacturing.
Civil and Structural;
Chemical and Processes
PART C
Ministry of                                        Preparation of a long-range plan    (a) Management training programs to be
Education (MOE)                                    for the period after 1990 for    established tor MOE and university staff;
Higher Education                                   university development and        (b) 10 s.y. of fellowships for staff of
Division                                           finance.2                        MOE, universities and central agencies
Strengthening of the management   for training visits or attachments
of universities.                 overseas: and
(c) 2 s.y. (24 months) of specialist
services.
iThe SAR (in Annex 5.1, Table 1) gives a total of 1,200 distributed among the undergraduate programs of
the four Schools. However, in para 2.3 the SAR gives the target as 1,200 in undergraduate and postgraduate
programs. This was the target for four Schools (Mechanical, Electricat/Electronics, Civil and Chemical) and
not just the two Project Schools. Table 5.1 (b) of the Working Papers gives a target of 1,200 in first degree
programs and 600 in diploma programs but no figure for post-graduate enroltment.
2 Loan Agreement. Section 3.04. The Borrower shall prepare a plan for University development and finance
for the period after 1990.
4



C. Project Design and Organization
Project Concept
10. The project concept was shaped in response to two selected
aspects of national manpower needs. It was correct in going beyond
the immediate question of output of engineers and medical doctors
and looking into the institutional problems of the higher education
sub-sector and its long-range development. However, expanding a
system on the one hand and promoting institutional development on
the other require quite different rhythms of design, preparation
and implementation.
11. The expansion of the two universities (Parts A and B) was
supported by the universities and ministries of Government.
However, beyond the Bank and central ministries, it does not appear
that the planning and management component (Part C) was fully
accepted either by the MOE or by the university system that it was
designed to assist.
12. The project concept was innovative in certain respects. The
gearing of medical training toward rural needs and service and some
of the medical programs (such as the Masters in Medicine) were
important new steps. The deliberate effort to focus engineering
research toward the needs of industry and manufacturing was also
innovative.   The most challenging innovation,  however, was the
effort to change institutional behavior in the planning and
management  of  higher  education.       In  a  university  system
characterized by a fairly high degree of autonomy of each
university, the notion of sector-wide and long-range planning had
not as yet taken root.   In regard to strengthening university
management, most of the proposed studies--studies of cost and
financing, university management systems, labor markets, and
graduate employment, efficiency of university operations, overseas
students, etc.--were by no means essentially new.  However, the
expectation was that even if these studies could be carried out
expeditiously, their findings would lead within a short time frame,
to a series of actions and policy decisions for the sub-sector as
a whole as well as within these autonomous institutions; this would
have required considerable change.
13. The concept was innovative in one other important aspect--its
financing arrangements.  The Loan proceeds were to finance some 97%
of the expenditure envisaged for hardware elements (civil works,
furniture and equipment) and about 90% of the estimated local costs
of the project, while the Loan included no financing for the
technical assistance program--staff training, expert services and
related operating expenditure, some 60% of which was foreign cost.
The rationale was that the Government sought financing only for its
development (capital) expenditure and the financing of fellowships
came under its recurrent budget and could not be transferred to the
development budget because of the prescribed ceiling on the Fifth
5



Plan budget. Nevertheless, in terms of Bank practice, this was an
unusual approach to technical assistance. The Bank staff, familiar
with the inclusion in a project of items not being financed by the
loan proceeds, fully understood this arrangement.  However, the
Borrower staff, especially in the MOE and the universities
concerned, appear to have retained throughout the implementation
period the idea that the portions of the project not being financed
by the Loan were not as integral a part of the project (if at all
a part) as the physical elements.
14.  The project was of an appropriate scale and scope--giving
balanced attention to both hardware and software requirements and
to the institutional strengthening needed as a basis for growth of
an efficient system of higher education. The selection of only two
universities and a focus on Engineering and Medicine limited the
project to a manageable size for what was only the second higher
education investment by the Bank in the country.3
15. Project preparation was strong in certain respects and
deficient in others. The USM components (Engineering and Medicine)
had both benefitted from detailed Master Plans for physical
development and considerable planning and architectural design work
which had been started as early as 1981 in the case of Medicine.
Furthermore, USM had secured central government commitment to its
realistically estimated costs and this facilitated smooth
preparation.
16. The UKM component, on the other hand, did not have the benefit
of a Master Plan and relied on a cost estimate that was initially
unrealistically low.'  The required momentum of preparation was
never really achieved, especially as EPU was at that time seeking
to reduce the standards with which universities were operating and
was applying more stringent standards at UKM than had been accepted
at USM.  Much of the preparatory work was therefore carried out
during the project implementation phase, with resulting delays in
implementation and specific unsatisfactory features of the physical
plant provided.'
3 The SAR (para. 1.34) described this University Development Project as the first to assist Malaysian
university development directly.   In fact, the first Bank investment  in the sub-sector was a program of
assistance toward the Science Schools of the then University of Penang (now USM) under the Second Education
Project (Loan 810-MA, approved ApriL 1972).
41n the hope of gaining both time and a good price, UKM, unfortunately, initially favored using a turnkey
contract to provide the buildings.  In hindsight, it appears that this approach would have resuLted in higher
costs. (At least this was the view of USM project staff at the time, who aLso felt that the cost estimates were
too low). Thus, UKM had not prepared detailed plans that wouLd have facilitated reasonabLe cost estimating.
The Bank indicated early that it did not agree to the turnkey concept and a consuLting architect was empLoyed.
The initial costs being discussed by UKM were about $40 per square foot whiLe the USM estimates, to which EPU
had agreed, were $60 per square foot.
5As Late as the time of the February 1990 Supervision Mission, the Bank found that EPU and UKM should meet
and settLe the differences over the necessary fLoor area and budget.
6



17. The university management and planning component was prepared
with evidently little Borrower participation, although with the
support of the central ministries but rather limited MOE
involvement.   It is, therefore, not surprising that there was
limited commitment shown by MOE to carrying out this component as
designed.
18. The timing of the project was appropriate. It came at a time
when the economic downturn placed Malaysia in a position where it
needed to borrow for this kind of strategic investment. However,
in hindsight, it is clear that the UKM physical component needed
several more months of preparatory work and the university
management and planning component needed a similar time for more
detailed preparation and consensus building.
Design of Implementation
19. The roles of the universities in implementing Parts A and B of
this project were generally well defined and stated in the SAR--the
universities were expected (a) to carry out their physical
development and technical assistance programs, using their
established Development Offices and (b) to maintain records and
accounts both for the Loan-funded and the purely Government-funded
parts of the Project. The record keeping arrangements required to
track separately the project related technical assistance
(fellowships, expert services and research expenditures) and its
cost year by year, were clearly specified in the SAR but only very
broadly touched on in the Loan Agreement.6  In the event, the
required system was not put in place. With regard to Part C of the
Project, the statement on implementation arrangements was not as
clear. The divisions of Higher Education, Finance, and Development
and Supplies in MOE were expected to monitor project progress and
MOE (in collaboration with the Vice Chancellors' Conference) was
identified as the agency responsible for the long-term development
planning  of  the  sub-sector  and  initiating  improvements  in
university management.  However, in view of (a) the innovative
nature of this component and (b) the relatively minor part played
by the Government in its design, a more clearly delineated
implementation strategy was required.
20. The Borrower understanding of roles in implementing the
project did not fully correspond to the defined and stated roles.
6 Loan Agreement Section 4.01 (a) "The Borrower shall maintain ... records and accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof" and
Section 4.01 (b) "The Borrower shall:
.(iii) furnish to the Bank.. .said records and accounts.. .as the Bank shall...reasonably request"
The Staff Appraisal Report (para 2.26 as well as page 2 of Annex 9) also mentioned the need to identify
project related expenditures on this item "so that the total project expenditure could be monitored by the
universities, central agencies and the Bank", with six-monthly reports to the Bank.
7



USM did not recognize its responsibility to account separately for
Government expenditure on its program of technical assistance. UKM
systematically reported its progress in staff training but also did
not keep separate accounts on its technical assistance program
financed jointly by the central government and UKM. The perception
of the two universities as communicated to the Completion Mission,
was that, since no Loan proceeds were involved, there was no
obligation to report on these activities; however, it is not clear
whether this view was ever communicated to the supervision
missions. The universities fully accorded high priority to the
staff development program and did monitor, keep records and report
in general terms (more thoroughly in the case of UKM) to the Bank's
supervision missions. However, costs (or expenditures) were not
included in the reporting. Similarly, with regard to Part C of the
project, one 1990 supervision mission found that, despite the
Government's agreement to the SAR and the discussions and
agreements reached at Loan Negotiations, there was confusion among
central agencies of Government and the university system on this
component and not much had been done to implement it.
21. This differentiated understanding of roles reinforced a
pattern that has become fairly typical in education projects--(i)
the  hardware components   of Parts A and B were successfully
implemented, especially in the case of USM; (ii) the technical
assistance components of Parts A and B were implemented somewhat
more slowly than planned, but with considerable achievement, and
(iii) the institution building component (Part C) was practically
not implemented.
22. It is also clear in hindsight that the Bank decision to focus
Loan financing on the buildings and leave the usually more
difficult staff development and institution building components
entirely to Government financing was not entirely helpful to
implementation. In this respect, the Bank gave up its established
principle of maintaining some financial contact with all elements
of the project throughout implementation.7 However, in view of the
particular circumstances of these two components, it is not clear
that much more would have been achieved in implementation by using
the traditional financing approach since these components entailed
expectations as to speed of implementation that were quite
unrealistic.
7It was for this reason of maintaining a balance of Bank/Borrower interest that, when exceptionaL cost
increases occurred, the Bank foLLowed the practice of adjusting reimbursement percentages for the relevant
categories during implementation rather than compLeteLy disbursing all the proceeds Long before compLetion of
the work.
8



D. Project Implementation
Summary
23. The following Table summarizes the achievement in regard to
each project component and item:
Table: SUMMARY OF IMPLEMENTATION ACHIEVEMENTS AND VARIATIONS
ORIGINALLY AGREED                                     ACTUALLY IMPLEMENTED
Part A --Development of USM
1.  Infrastructure, civil works, equipment, materials, furniture.    1.
a)  for Schools of Mechanical and Civil Engineering at Sri Iskandar,  a)  Completed
Perak
b)  for the School of Medical Sciences                           b)  Completed
2.  Academic and Research Development as follows:                    2.
a)  Engineering:                                                 a)
i)   about 300 staff years (s.y.) of fellowships, 1988-91, for    i)  Several teaching staff trained in overseas
training teaching and technical staff for the four schools of  programs which are still ongoing and
Engineering (including Electrical and Electronic and      technical staff trained locally and overseas;
Materials/Minerals)                                        the exact number of staff years not
ii)   about 10 s.y. of expatriate services                      communicated to Completion Mission.
iii)  costs of developing research in fields relevant to industrial  ii)   Foreign contract staff engaged; no. of staff
design and manufacturing                                    years not provided to Completion Mission.
b)  Medical Sciences:                                           iii)  Research undertaken and ongoing in
i)   about 300 s.y. of fellowships, 1988-91, for training         relevant fields.
teaching and technical staff for the school           b)
i)   Teaching staff trained in overseas
ii)   about 10. s.y. of expatriate services                       programs still ongoing; technical staff
trained locally; number of staff years not
communicated to Completion Mission.
iii)  financing of research and pilot projects             ii)   Several expatriate staff recruited - well in
excess of 10 s.y. Details not provided to
PART B --Development of UKM                                                Completion Mission.
1.  Infrastructure, civil works, equipment, materials, furniture for the  iii)  Research undertaken in agreed areas.
Faculty of Engineering at Bangi.
2.  Academic and research development as follows:
a.  about 240 s.y. of fellowships to train staff for the Faculty  1.   Completed on a slightly reduced scale in
b.  about 10 s.y. of expatriate services                              the light of cost constraints.
2.
c.  support costs for research re. the manufacturing industry   a.   Several teaching staff trained overseas and
one technician trained locally (Table 4 of
PART C Technical Assistance and Training                                   Part III)
1.  To improve planning for university development, including preparation b.   Expatriate staff recruited; exact no. of s.y.
of a long-term plan.                                                  not provided to Completion Mission.
2.  To strengthen university management, including conduct of various    c.   Research undertaken and ongoing in
contributory studies and activities.                                  relevant fields. No cost data available.
1.   Planning for Sixth Plan undertaken but
long-term plan not prepared.
2.   Some studies undertaken, but a systematic
integrated program not carried out.
9



24. The more significant variations between the planned and the
actual implementation were as follows:
Parts A and B
Staff Development: The fellowship program to train academic
staff at USM and UKM was carried out; however, with a sizeable
shortfall in the numbers trained and staff years and without the
agreed separate recording and accounting arrangements. At UKM,
for example, the average annual level of fellowship staff years
1988-91 was 8.6, compared to an appraisal expectation of 59.0.
The result was that the pool of qualified staff grew more slowly
than anticipated. In the light of experience, it appears that
the originally projected rate of staff training was unrealistic,
having been conceived to meet the needs of rapid growth in
student numbers, but without close examination of the number of
qualified persons available to be sent on fellowships and the
financing arrangements. However, the growth of trained staff
numbers did keep pace roughly with student numbers.
Expatriate services were used by USM and UKM to fill gaps, but
these were not recorded as a program of project technical
assistance and not communicated to the Completion Mission.
Part C
The long-term plan for university development and finance was
not prepared  in the manner  envisaged.    Eventually,  after
recognizing that the Plan simply could not be prepared within
a reasonable time frame, the Bank agreed that the planning done
for the Higher Education sub-sector for inclusion in the Sixth
Plan (1991-1995) would be accepted as fulfilling the Loan
Agreement Covenant on the long-range plan.
The set of studies on the sub-sector identified at appraisal
was not carried out. Some studies were done on topics somewhat
related to some of those in the Project list; but there was no
systematic integrated program leading to policy decisions as
envisaged under the Project.
Expert services were not recruited to assist in this component
and while training was provided for university management staff
and some training was secured outside Government financing by
individual university management staff, none of this was in
response to the Project.
25. Could these implementation shortfalls have been avoided? The
staff development shortfall could have been avoided by detailed
preparatory programming which could have shown the impossibility of
sustaining a program of between 60 and 100 persons in Engineering
and 60-70 in Medicine on overseas fellowships in the target years.
10



The cost problems that plagued the UKM civil works program could
have been avoided by good Master Planning and advance preparation
of designs. Preparation of the university planning and management
could have given greater recognition to the autonomy of the
universities and the small size and limited capacity of the Higher
Education Division of MOE to bear the additional burden and, hence,
the need to work over a longer time frame to better promote
consensus building. Bank supervision missions could have assisted
the universities to design the separate recording and accounting
format for the technical assistance items in Parts A and B.
Physical Aspects
26.    While  in  its  physical  aspects  the  project  was  well
implemented, there were some shortcomings in design and
construction of the physical plant that should be noted.
27.  USM.  For the Schools of Engineering, USM followed its Master Plan
prepared for the campus and the Government financed an earlier than
expected transfer of the Schools of Electrical and Electronic and
Materials and Mineral Engineering to the campus. Construction proceeded
with only minor delays (over logging rights in 1988 and then by the
impact of expansion in the construction industry as Malaysia climbed out
of the recession in 1989) and the buildings were handed over between
December 1989 and July 1990, one year behind the Appraisal estimated
time. The Medical Sciences complex also benefitted from an early start
in design--a Master Plan having been produced in 1981--and construction
was subject to only minor delays (including severe flooding on one
occasion) and the buildings were handed over between late 1989 and August
1990, only one month behind the Appraisal schedule.
28. The Engineering buildings are well distributed over the Sri Iskandar
site and generally well designed, constructed and equipped. Rain damage
to the Library following a storm was quickly repaired. The Library and
Engineering labs and workshops have been well laid out in a manner that
would permit of further expansion should this ever be required. There
is general satisfaction on the part of staff with the facilities.
Shortcomings are minor--such as concrete finishes in some areas.
29. The Kubang Kerian School of Medical Sciences campus is impressive
in its physical aspects.   The construction is of a generally high
standard.   The "sports complex" mentioned in the Appraisal Report
comprises a badminton hall, a gymnasium and squash courts.  However,
there are a few limitations from which lessons might be drawn:
a.   the poor ventilation of some rooms;
b.   the use of gypsum board for internal walls which, in this humid
climate, is prone to collection of moisture at the base and
consequent fungus growth;
c.   the excessive amount of open space in the buildings (some of
which could at a later stage be enclosed as rooms for expanded
enrollments); and
11



d.   some rainstorm damage because of the roof design in the Library.
30.  UKM. For the Faculty of Engineering,  there were extraordinary
delays. Problems at the outset were that UKM began without a Master Plan
and on the assumption of an unrealistic cost estimate (para. 16).
Eventually, an architectural consultant was engaged in December 1987 to
prepare a design for a building of about 160,000 square feet.  More
funding was then made available to add about 60,000 square feet. New
designs were prepared (of about 250,000 square feet) and, as the
construction bids exceeded the budget, the designs had to be redone to
reduce the area eventually to 242,600 square feet, postpone the sports
hall and lower the standard of finishes. Construction eventually began
in 1991 and the Faculty moved in three years behind the Appraisal
schedule in November 1993.
31.  With all these vicissitudes at UKM, there are several problems which
appear to stem from insufficient consultation with the teaching staff as
well as shortcomings in design and construction workmanship8.   These
include poor concrete finishes, inadequately plumbed walls and uprights,
uneven plastering, thin and flimsy partitions, an unsatisfactory safety
situation in the compressed air and steam systems, flooding in heavy
rains and equipment improperly installed. One mechanical engineering
workshop has its loading bay ramp above ground level and there is no
ground level entry; hence vehicles cannot enter and loading/unloading is
very inconvenient. There was some changing around in the use of rooms
being undertaken at the time of the Completion Mission visit. The bulky,
noisy air handling units have been inexplicably placed in the classrooms
and labs as if this was a design oversight. Some of the equipment could
not physically be accommodated in the new building - e.g., the Fluidized-
bed Combuster, which is too large to fit in and an item for Sedimentation
Testing which is about 30 feet long.   Pillars obtrude into teaching
spaces. Electrical light switches in the main lecture theater are at the
back of the room instead of at the front where the lecturer can control
them.
32.  The provision of one building for the Faculty, instead of separate
buildings for each Department, renders it difficult to expand the
building to accommodate future increases in enrollment in particular
departments.  The entire building gives the impression of being both
crowded and yet full of wasted space. Despite these shortcomings, useful
teaching and research can be and is being carried on.  However, the
experience is a valuable lesson in the process of designing and
constructing such facilities. Equipment has generally been satisfactory,
although some of it has been improperly installed by the contractor.
Mechanical Engineering was noticeably under-equipped, having received
only 25% of the requested budget for equipment, so that its space appears
sparsely equipped.
ouality of Risk Identification
33.    The identification of risks in this project was not generally well
done. The SAR found that graduate unemployment in the project fields
8The staff indicated to the Completion Mission that there had been initiaL consultation with them on the
requirements of building and equipment, but that when the re-designing and cost reduction programs were
undertaken, especiaLLy under time pressures, there was virtually no consultation.
12



would not be a problem and this has proven correct. Only one risk was
identified--the sustainability of government expenditure on the
investment and operating costs of project institutions.   This was
addressed under the project by limiting the scope of the project9.
Financial sustainability proved to be a non-issue. The Government has
not only sustained the cost, at both universities (not to mention other
universities  in the country)  it has also continued with a large
development program.  The Sri Iskandar, Perak campus received the two
additional Schools of Engineering financed entirely by the Government
almost simultaneously with the two project Schools, instead of later.
The project-financed Medical Complex at Kelantan has been followed
directly by the next phase. The UKM Engineering building was constructed
with considerable additional government funding and other buildings are
being constructed.
34. The risks that were overlooked or improperly diagnosed included:
a)   the growth of student enrollment in Engineering;
b)   the attrition among university staff; and
c)   the limited commitment and capacity of the Borrower (MOE and
universities) with regard to the university management and
planning component.
35.   Student enrollment in Engineering has grown at a much slower pace
than originally foreseen in the SAR (Table 6 (a) of Part III) . The SAR
noted that only 25% of qualified applicants for degree courses received
places and drew the conclusion that the supply of candidates was good
enough to support the proposed expansion program. In fact, the supply
of persons qualified to enter Engineering or Medicine was very limited
at the time and of very slow growth (see para. 45 below).
36.  Attrition among university staff was much higher than foreseen by
the appraisal team (see para. 49).
3 7.  The failure to recognize the large risks inherent in the institution
building component on university management and planning may have stemmed
from the fact that the appraisal mission lacked an institutional devel-
opment specialist familiar with Bank operations.'0 Since the success of
this component was important for strategic decisions on the development
of the sub-sector, it was an oversight on the Bank's part not to have
utilized such a specialist. The preparation and design of the component
reveal basic deficiencies such as (a) an inadequate assessment of the
resources and capacity of the Higher education division of MOE, (b) an
unreasonably short time horizon for design, study and implementation; (c)
failure to provide for the promotion of a consensus building strategy,
inclusive of employers; (d) a focus on cost-reduction which is usually
perceived as a negative purpose rather than the promotion of more
effective achievement of university goals--a process that may involve
9At the beginning of discussions on the possible scope of the project, UKM was interested in a much larger
component than was eventually agreed.
'A person experienced in university management in the UK was used to appraise this component. He had
previously been the adviser to the Vice-Chancellor of USH.
13



cost reduction in some areas but is generally seen as a more positive and
worthwhile goal.
Other Factors Affecting Implementation
38. Some unforeseen and unforeseeable factors did affect
implementation.   While,  in 1987,  some economic recovery was
expected, its robustness when it came in 1989 was not fully
foreseeable. The explosive growth in the construction industry did
jeopardize for a time the pace of the ongoing civil works program
by driving up construction prices and making labor scarce. In the
case of UKM, it forced a re-bidding and reduction in the scale of
the civil works  in 1989.   At USM,  the Engineering complex
encountered delays from 1989 as the contractor had difficulty
holding on to labor on the basis of uncompetitive pre-recovery
wages.
39. There were several measures that positively assisted
implementation. The excellent work on a Master Plans at the two
USM campuses was a major facilitator of smooth implementation. The
splitting of the civil works program at UKM into a contract for
infrastructure and one for other works saved considerable time.
Bank acceptance of the Government decision not to establish the
Special Account required under the Loan Agreement"' was also
helpful in keeping things moving.
40. On the other hand, the three changes in project director at
UKM not only delayed implementation slightly, it also hampered the
close liaison between the Faculty and the Project Office.
E. Project Costs and Disbursements
41. Costs. Project costs and financing, to the extent that these
can be determined at this stage, are summarized in Table 5 of Part
III. In the absence of the actual technical assistance costs, or
precise staff years of fellowships in the case of USM (to which at
least some cost could be imputed), it is impossible to construct a
reliable approximation of total actual project cost12 or to
determine the actual financing of the project without full
information on actual cost. However, it is fair to conclude that
despite the large increase in Government financing for physical
plant at UKM, the project has been financed by the Loan to a
This Government decision was taken in regard to all Bank-financed projects.
12 UKM provided to the Completion Mission full data on nLumber of persons and staff years for the fellowship
component onLy, but not on costs. USM did not provide data. The UKM performance 1988-94 was roughly 40% of
target on feLLowships only. If it is assumed that the achievement was the same at USM, or even 50%, and the
same unit costs as used for the appraisaL estimate applied, the actual cost for fellowships might be estimated
at M$31 million.
14



greater degree than originally planned--about 67% of the actual
cost compared to 59% of the original estimate.13
42.  In regard to the physical components at USM, there was a 4%
cost underrun (M$2.1 million) in Engineering, which was largely
offset by a 3.4% overrun (M$1.8m.) on the Medical Sciences complex,
giving a net underrun of 0.3% at USM; this can be attributed to (i)
an early start on implementation (with retroactive financing from
the Loan), (ii) excellent project management and (iii) good cost
estimating. On the other hand, with the problems at UKM of (a) the
late and stumbling start on architectural design work, (b) the loss
of time while the changing resource situation was discussed between
UKM and EPU (c) some expansion of the scope of civil works, (d)
initial underestimating of costs and (e) the inflation of
construction costs in 1989, there was an eventual cost overrun of
the order of 85.6%.  This was met by a substantial increase in
Government financing as well as a modest "transfer" of about US$0.5
million from the USM allocation of Loan proceeds to UKM'4.
F. Project Results
Physical Plant
43. The project fully met its physical objectives at USM in both
Engineering and Medical Sciences.   At UKM,  the project has
generally achieved its physical objectives. However, some future
investment will be needed to attend to specific equipment and space
needs, especially in the Mechanical and Civil Engineering
Departments.
Student Enrollment
44. The student enrollment objectives at USM and UKM have not as
yet been fully met but they are expected to be achieved.  The
13         Project Cost and Financing: Estimated and Actual by Categ2ry
Physical PLant  Technical  Total (in MS
(in MS million)  Assistance (in MS  million) -- tX share]
million)
Appraisal Cost Estimate    124.0      79.5        203.5
Actual  Cost               142.33  = =  n.a. X X   n.a. XX
Intended Financing by the Loan  120.50  00.0      120.50 [59.2%]
Actual financing by the Loan  116.34  00.0        116.34 [67.1%]
Intended Financing by Goverrvnent  3.5  79.5       83.0
Actual Financing by Government  25.99  n.a.        n.a.
'4For physical facilities the original allocation of Loan proceeds was:
USM--USS38.6 million; UKM--US$8.7 million (with USS0.9 million unallocated). Actual disbursements were:
USM--US$36.4 million; UKM--USS10.1 million (with US$1.7 million canceled). Thus UKM received about US$0.5
million above its original allocation, together with all of the originally unallocated proceeds.
15



present constraints relate to the availability of teaching staff as
well as to the availability of qualified candidates for admission
to the degree programs.
45. The shortfall in the build-up of Engineering enrollments is
attributed to several factors:
a.   the fact that the new buildings became fully available
behind schedule;
b.   the constraints regarding staff - the staff has grown at
a slower rate than was forecast at appraisal (because of
higher than expected attrition and slower than expected
training);
c.   the number of students actually available for admission
fell well short of the expected level; the pool of
available qualified candidates was smaller than assumed at
appraisal--mathematics   and   science   (especially   in
additional mathematics and physics) being areas of weakness
in the school system; in this respect, the appraisal
projections would have benefitted from a more searching
analysis of the size of the relevant qualified output from
secondary schools,15and
d.   a small proportion, but an appreciable number, of students
offered places in engineering opt to go directly to jobs
or to other local institutions (such as the private
colleges that are twinned with overseas institutions or the
University of Malaya) or into Accountancy/ Business
Management and overseas.
These were all foreseeable factors.   One that was not easily
foreseeable was the Government decision during implementation to
drop the diploma program from the universities, conduct them
elsewhere and concentrate on degree programs at the universities.
46. Student attrition rates are negligible in all project
institutions. In regard to the medical undergraduate program, the
Completion Mission received an estimate that about 5% drop out,
including about 3% for marriage or other non-academic reasons.16
Staff Development
47. The staff development component of the project accounted for
38.4% of originally estimated project costs. It was envisaged that
'5Some 60% of the admissions into engineering at UKM corne from the special matriculation classes conducted
at the university and about 40% are drawn straight from the secondary schooLs.
16 In 1990, the dropout rate was estimated at 10%, with 6% attributable to marriage/pregnancy,
16



the fellowship training program--for post graduate degrees, first
degrees for selected matriculation holders and the training of
technicians and industrial attachments--would be an average per
annum of 75 in Medical Sciences and 75 in Engineering at USM and 59
at UKM.
48.  A staff development program has been pursued at both USM and
UKM. Table 4 provides data on the UKM achievements; similar data
on the USM program have not been made available to the Completion
Mission but USM officials informed the mission that the training
program was carried out and is on-going and successive Bank
supervision missions noted that progress was being made on this.
At USM in Engineering there were 39 reported to be on fellowships
in 1990 and 33 of April 1994; in Medical Sciences, there were 18
persons studying overseas in 1991. The average annual target of
staff years of fellowships envisaged at appraisal was not achieved,
but the training program is being spread over a longer period and
has had a considerable achievement to date.
49. There has also been more staff attrition than anticipated at
appraisal.   Contrary to the SAR finding that the status of
university teachers was high and that their salaries compared well
with those in the private and public sectors, university staff
informed the Completion Mission that the salary issue was always
and is still serious. Attrition has occurred among the more senior
teachers--both engineers and medical teaching staff--especially
into the private sector. For example, at UKM, between March and
November 1990, the number of Ph.D. holders on the teaching staff in
Civil  Engineering  declined  from  seven  to  four."7  Suitable
candidates for fellowships were also not as readily available as
the  appraisal  team appears  to have  assumed.    Allowing  the
university teachers to share in the income from consultancies is a
reasonable measure in terms of attracting and retaining qualified
staff, but (a) the benefit to staff applies only to those in fields
in which such consultancies are needed and (b) the ceiling on staff
earnings might need to be reviewed.'"
50.  Most of the Fellows studied in the UK and Australia.   The
returned fellows have expressed satisfaction with their training,
although some felt that the training was somewhat too short. Most
persons did Ph.D programs as envisaged; others did the Masters
program and, in a few cases, followed it up with the Ph.D.  One
important benefit of the fellowship program-was that it facilitated
17  At UKM, for example, the number of PhDs on staff in Civil Engineering was 6 in March, 1989 but 5 in
September, 1989, 7 in February, 1990 and 4 in October, 1990.
18 The formula appears to be that the staff receive 100% of the first $10,000, 75% of the next $10,000,
50% of the next $10,000 and nothing above that level, with the balance going to the university.
17



exposure of the staff to computer-based operations, new programs of
training and new equipment.
Development of New Courses
51. The development of courses has proceeded satisfactorily. The
School of Medicine is moving into Nursing in a much larger way than
originally foreseen and has considerably broadened the specializa-
tions offered in the four-year Master of Medicine program. It has
added a new three-year diploma program in medical laboratory
technology. At UKM, a business course has been added to assist in
promoting entrepreneurial attitudes and capacity among the
students.   Both Engineering campuses are establishing distance
education programs to meet the needs of persons who cannot leave
their jobs; at UKM, the focus in this delivery mode is on civil
engineering. Computer Assisted Design and Computer Assisted
Management are both emphasized in the Engineering programs.
Research
52. The research program is one of the brightest spots in the
academic development initiative under this Project. The bulk of
the research being conducted by staff is directly relevant to the
problems faced in the public and private sectors in Engineering and
Medicine.    The School of Medical  Sciences  has designed  (and
patented) low-cost, easy to operate diagnostic kits for dengue
fever and typhoid--an outstanding achievement in terms of health
for  the  poor.    The  masters  degree  program  at  UKM  is  now
predominantly by research rather than course work.  At UKM, for
instance, firms, Government departments and the ASEAN/Australian
Cooperation Program are funding particular research initiatives.
Several of the research undertakings are joint ones with industry
or public corporations or departments of government (Table 6 (b)
(i) of Part III).
University Planning and Management
53. The results originally expected of the university planning and
management component have been only partially realized. The MOE
Higher Education Division was a small unit and consideration is now
being given to upgrading and expanding it.  However, within the
implementation period, the Borrower never invited the Bank to
assist it in the planning of higher education, even though the Bank
had repeatedly offered its assistance over the years, starting as
early as Loan Negotiations.
54. The higher education content of the Sixth Malaysia Plan was
not the kind of long term planning that was originally envisaged in
the Loan Agreement. Several studies relevant to university manage-
ment were undertaken in the sub-sector, but it is fair to state
that they did not correspond to the kind of integrated program
foreseen at appraisal. MOE held a seminar in 1992 on planning and
18



another in 1993 on university management. These seminars provided
some perspectives that should be useful for the policy paper that
MOE hopes to produce.   Considerable thought has gone into such
topics as expanding the autonomy of the universities, a new
structure for higher education and new guidelines on such subjects
as staff promotion criteria, addition of new advanced courses and
the desirable balance between teaching and non-teaching activities
in the academic staff workload.   Thus, MOE has been pursuing
improvements in planning and management, but it started somewhat
later and approached it more slowly (it is not clear that it had
the resources to do otherwise) and with greater emphasis on
consensus building than the appraisal schedule assumed.
Changes in Obiectives During Implementation
55.  There were no formally agreed changes in objectives during
implementation. Two noteworthy actual changes were that: (1) the
Government decided during implementation that engineering diploma
level courses should be done not by the universities but by the
Polytechnic, which left the universities with greater capacity to
produce more engineering degree graduates; and (2) the fellowship
program was used almost exclusively to train teaching staff; a few
technicians were trained abroad, but the majority were suitably
trained in USM and UKM and at other local higher education
institutions.19
G. Project Impact
Sectoral Growth Policies
56. The project has had very modest impact on the growth of higher
education. Overall enrollment growth at UKM between 1987 and 1993
was 1,368 or an increase of 15.6% while growth in Engineering under
the project auspices was 114 or an increase of 35%.   Eventually,
the Engineering growth would be of the order of 750, but it is not
clear by then what the overall UKM growth would be.  At USM,
enrollment in science and technology fields comprised 4,485 or
53.7% of total enrollment in 1986-87 and 5,017 or 41.5% in 1992-93.
Of the growth in numbers enrolled in science/technology, 1,072 were
in Engineering and Medical Sciences while Pure and Applied Sciences
had a net enrollment decline of 540.  Nationwide, the growth in
absolute terms in the number of students in science and technology
between 1986-87 and 1992-93 was 6,772 compared to the overall
growth in enrollment in all disciplines of 24,792, so that the
science and technology share fell from 43% nationwide in 1986-87 to
37% in 1992-93. Thus, the project has helped to reduce the decline
in the share of science/technology in total enrollment. The sub-
I9 It had been envisaged that about 14 s.y. of the proposed 300 s.y. in Engineering at USM and 24 s.y. of
the 240 s.y. at UKM would be used to prepare technicians. Three s.y. were used at UKM to train one technician
at the Polytechnic; USM School of Medicine had 18 medical laboratory technologists in training at Penang in
1989; and two technicians were recorded as being abroad in September 1988 for the Schools of Engineering.
19



sector target of 60% of enrollment in science/technology will
require support from major strategic measures starting at the pre-
university level. 20
Labor Market
57. With the current economic growth, the employment of graduates
in engineering and medicine seems reasonably assured. The project
has helped to reinforce the collaborative interaction between the
university and the employers." Firms interview students on campus
as early as the third year of the four year program.   Many
engineers are taken on by the firms with which they did their
internships. By August of the year of graduation (in June), USM
finds that about 60% of the engineering students already have
permanent jobs. Medical graduates have no problem of unemployment.
Despite this bright situation, it is necessary to remember that
markets do change in their qualitative and quantitative
requirements.   At present, there is no systematic tracing of
graduates; such a system is needed to identify the issues in each
branch of engineering and in regard to rural and community service
in medicine in time to make quantitative and qualitative
adjustments.
The Environment
58.  The project has had no significant immediate environmental
impact.  The Perak campus is situated in a previous tin mining
area.  The layout of the campus has been very well conceived.
Overall, the engineering training and research programs at UKM, for
example, address the issue of the environment, including
atmospheric and noise pollution, non-destructive land use and
reduced fuel consumption (Table 6 (b) (i) of Part III) and should,
therefore, over time, have an extremely valuable impact.
Technoloqy
59.  The project is making a direct contribution, through training
and research, toward strengthening the country capacity in
technology, especially in manufacturing, industry and physical
infrastructure.
20 This discussion  reflects  only the enrollment  at  local  institutions.    It may welt  be  that  the
representation of science/technology among Malaysian students abroad is higher than at home.
21At UKM, the new Dean in 1989 reactivated the Faculty Advisory Committee, including representatives of
industry. At the USM SchooLs of Engineering, an Industry Panel was established in 1990, which met twice yearly
to promote ties with industry, and the SchooLs maintained a regular unit for reLations with industry.
20



Equity
60. The wide availability of student loans has broadened student
opportunity at the higher education level.   University staff
informed the mission that students do not now have to decline
places offered to them because of financial need. In this climate,
the project has therefore succeeded in providing increased
opportunities for upward mobility to a wide spectrum of Malaysian
students, thus contributing to broadening the distribution of
income and reducing poverty.
61. In regard to gender equity, the project is helping to open up
opportunities to women in terms of both academic teaching careers
and training places. Female enrollment is low in Engineering--at
UKM, for example, about 10 in Electrical/Electronics and less than
5% in the other four fields.  On the other hand, it is high in
medicine at USM (about 60% at undergraduate level and 50% at post
graduate level), which is giving rise to concern, since women are
less available, for practical reasons, to be posted in remote rural
areas. The number of women on the teaching staff in Engineering is
small but is expected to grow despite the low female enrollment.
The fellowship awards under the project at UKM show no discrimina-
tion against women.
H. Project Sustainability
62. The project was modest in scope and is fully sustainable. The
net additional places provided under the project amounted to
slightly under 7% of the total higher education enrollment in 1992-
93. Financially, it is a small part of the higher education system
which, at a size that is well within the means of Malaysia,
accounted for only 14% of the education budget in 1993 and 1994 by
comparison with 16% in 1986 and 1987 (Table 6 (b)  (ii)) .  The
concerns expressed at the time of project generation about the
rising budget share of the higher education sub-sector appear to
have been allayed; from 15.1% in 1985, 15.8% in 1986 and 16.4%
projected in 1987, the share fell to 13.7% in 1993 and 14.3 in
1994. Certain measures adopted by Government--increases in fees
and reduction of scholarships in favor of loans--are expected to
reduce the sub-sector burden on the national budget.
63. Institutionally, all the project programs and facilities can
be satisfactorily managed and maintained.
I. Bank Performance
64. Bank performance showed both strengths and weaknesses along
the project cycle that can provide useful lessons. The Borrower
officials expressed appreciation of the valuable dialogue with the
Bank during project generation and implementation, citing parti-
cularly the advice provided on procurement guidelines and the
21



comments on architectural designs.   Certain Bank positions were
particularly commendable:
a.   at the project concept stage--
i.   that UKM avoid the proposed "turnkey contract" for
procuring the physical facilities;
ii.   support for the university management and planning
component--which was a worthwhile idea despite the
flaws in design and implementation noted in paras
37 and 53--and
iii. endorsement of the use of the established USM and
UKM offices for project management.
b.    during implementation--
i.    agreeing to waive the requirement regarding Special
Accounts when the Government decided during
implementation  not   to  establish   them   (and
implementation was not adversely affected);
ii.   recommending the use of the design consultants for
supervision of the construction program at UKM in
order to gain time;
iii.  accepting the UKM initiative of splitting the civil
works  contract  (para.  40),  although  it  had
(inadvertently) not first obtained the necessary
Bank's "no objection"; and
iv.   explaining Part C and encouraging the Government to
carry it out, once the Bank staff recognized that
there was a problem, although in the event this
effort produced little result.
65. However, there were weaknesses in project preparation,
appraisal and supervision. The project as designed, prepared and
appraised showed, in hindsight, the need for closer and more
precise attention to the flow of secondary school output, (para.
44), to the real competitiveness in the labor market and the
potential attrition of university teachers (para. 50) and to the
preparation and programming of the university management and
planning component  (para. 54) .  Moreover,  Bank performance on
equipment was not seen as an area of strength at USM.22
22The main problems here was Bank insistence on packaging procurement by Laboratory and on disqualifying
any bidder that did not cover at Least 80% of the items, which, in the view of USM, delayed procurement and
resulted in higher prices.
22



66. The Bank sent out eight (8) supervision missions over the 64
months between Loan Signature and Loan Closing, reasonably well
spaced (Table 8 (b)). They comprised chiefly architects. At the
launching of implementation, it would have been helpful for the
Bank to have paid closer attention to the technical assistance
component of Parts A and B and to Part C of the project. In the
case of staff development, the Universities, MOE and EPU needed to
have been briefed as to its importance to the integrity of the
project--the principal means by which the Government was providing
its essential contribution to project financing--and advised as to
the manner in which the recording and accounting data should be
assembled.23  As to Part C, it was not until the November 1990
mission that the Bank realized from discussions at the Treasury and
at the two project institutions that there was some confusion about
the content, goals and objectives of this component. This issue
was then addressed, but it was already too late to accomplish much.
Accordingly, from 1990 the Supervision ratings dropped from "1"
(problem free or minor problems)  to "2"  (moderate problems)
(Annex).
67.       Some lessons flow from this Bank experience:
a.   the importance of Borrower commitment  (or ownership)
which was evident in the successful implementation of the
two university components that were the Borrower's idea
as contrasted with the relative failure of the university
management and planning component that was predominantly
the Bank's idea;
b.   the need to adopt special measures, where loan proceeds
are not applied to essential project components, to
ensure that these components are treated as project
components rather than as complementary items by
implementing agencies;
c.   the value of detailed planning, programming and more
rigorous analysis as a basis for each project component
so as to ensure that it can be implemented within the
time and resources intended; in this respect the USM
master planning was a strong positive example, while the
faulty forecast of student enrollment and scheduling of
staff training and the university management and planning
component were examples of a more negative kind;
d.   the need to ensure that Bank missions are staffed with
the requisite expertise as reflected in the proposed
23 UKM devised and used throughout a good graphic presentation of fellowships showing from 1985 to 1994 the
degree being pursued, the Department to which the fellowship holder belonged, the starting and completion date,
whether a PhD or I program,  and the staffing and enrollment picture for each department.   With minor
modifications, such as the addition of costs, it could have been an ideal monitoring tool for the fellowship
program.
23



project content--in this case, a university institution
building expert familiar with Bank operations (in
appraisal of the project); and similar inclusion in
supervision missions to give balanced attention to the
various types of project activities to be supervised.
J. Borrower Performance
68. The Borrower in general performed well in both preparation and
implementation of the project. One particular area of strength was
the preparation of master plans for the USM campus developments in
Kelantan and Perak and the performance of the project offices of
USM and UKM on physical implementation.   UKM greatly expedited
construction by splitting the civil works contract into two (para.
40). The Universities also did well in keeping a steady flow of
fellows overseas for training for academic positions. There were
weaknesses in terms of less than full participation of MOE in the
designing of the university management and planning component.
69. The weaknesses in performance in the preparation stage were:
a.   the indecision on the part of the central government
authorities and UKM on the budget to be made available
for the UKM physical facilities, and
b.   the late start by UKM on architectural design work;
70. The principal weaknesses during implementation were:
a.   the failure regarding record keeping in the expected
format on the fellowship, specialist services and
research and related items; and
b.   the shortcomings in the liaison between the project
office and the academic staff at UKM on the facilities
being provided, resulting in problems of design and
provision of the buildings and equipment.
K. Project Relationships
71. The Bank maintained useful contact with the British Council
and Asian Development Bank in the early stages of project
generation. Excellent relations were also maintained between the
Bank and the Borrower (both at the level of the participating
universities and at the level of the ministries) on this project.
This is explained by the disposition of the Bank staff to assist in
positive ways in recognition of some of the constraints under which
the Government was operating.   In this respect,  the relations
between Bank and Borrower showed improvement over the Second
Education Project (Loan 810-MA) the experience of which had
predisposed USM not to use the Bank again, particularly because of
what was seen as rigidity on the Bank's part.  In this project,
while such problems were minimal, but there was still a perception
24



of the Bank position on procurement as limiting the acquisition of
equipment expeditiously and at a good price.
L. Services of Consultants and Contractors
72. The consultants employed for the civil works proved generally
good, particularly in the case of USM. The performance of contrac-
tors was also generally satisfactory, with some problems at all
campuses, especially at UKM (paras. 26-32). For UKM, apart from
the fact that the consultant was less experienced in this kind of
work, there was a late start on design work and the effort to make
up lost time unfortunately reduced consultation with the end users.
M. Project Documentation & Data
73.  This project was supported by adequate documentation.  The SAR and
Loan Agreement were very explicit on all project items and provided a
useful framework for implementing the project, except in respect of the
failure of (a) the SAR to define closely and specify the responsibilities
for implementing Part C of the project and (b) the Loan Agreement to be
more explicit on the record keeping requirements of the portion of the
project financed solely by the Borrower.
74.  In all respects, except those noted above in relation to the keeping
of separate records, the documentation for the evaluation of the project
was adequate.
25






PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE24
Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III
75. The Government is satisfied with the adequacy and accuracy of the
factual information in Part III of this report.  The information was
prepared by the Bank in collaboration with representatives of the
Government/universities. The data should provide readers with insights
on the strengths and weaknesses of project implementation.
Comments on the Bank's Perspective in Part I
76.  The Government's position on the Bank's Perspective is as follows:
Part C:
The Long-Term Plan
77. The Ministry of Education (MOE) on its own is looking into the
preparation of a long-term higher education development plan with the
cooperation of the universities, government agencies and other relevant
bodies. As such the Ministry is of the opinion that at this juncture,
the World Bank's involvement will not be necessary. However, when the
need arises, the Ministry will not hesitate to refer to the World Bank
for advice.  (Refer to the Ministry's letter to the World Bank dated 11
May 1988.)
78. Matters concerning the management of the university have been looked
into seriously by the MOE whereby the universities have been asked to re-
examine the structure and functions of the University as part of the
restructuring  exercise.    This  includes,  among  other  things,  the
possibility of reducing the size of the University's Senate so that it
would be able to function more effectively.
Evaluation of Bank's Performance
79. The Bank has provided significant input into the preparation and
implementation of the projects. The Bank's officials had dispensed their
responsibilities diligently and had contributed a great deal in
materializing this project. Some of the points worth mentioning are as
follows.
(a)  The Bank was involved in organizing a seminar on Procurement
and Disbursement Procedures during the early stage of the
project implementation which contributed towards the smooth-
running of the loan.
(b)  The Bank' s personnel had given positive and prompt response in
regard to awarding of contracts and approving/disapproving of
disbursement.
24 See Appendix for Borrower's additionaL comments.
27



(c)  The Bank officials have also exercised their discretionary
power wisely in critical areas, e.g., during the retendering
stage for the civil component (building), the bid-opening
period was reduced substantially from 75 to 30 days (for UKM).
(d)  The Bank's personnel were willing to discuss issues and
problems faced by the implementing agency and giving advice
accordingly.
80.  However, the Bank's performance could be improved in the following
areas:
(a)  Changes with regard to members of the supervision mission team
could lead to discontinuity in understanding the history and
problems of the project and could be misinterpreted in the
Project Completion Report (PCR).
(b)  Changes in the membership of the review mission team has
caused inconsistencies with regard to the information and data
required to be furnished to the Bank. The earlier mission
team did not emphasize on the need to prepare the financial
statement for staff training and the research programs, and
also the long-term planning for the development and management
of university programme. Should this request have been made,
for example with regard to the training programme, a close
liaison could be established with the Public Service
Department (PSD) who is jointly responsible with the
university for the training programme.
Evaluation of Borrower's Performance
81. The UKN engineering Faculty building was completed with an
exceptional delay and sub-standard quality. The Review Mission team has
pointed out many factors for the shortfalls and poor performance, among
others are: poor estimate, lack of consultation with the end-users and
changes of personnel in the Development Office.   It is not to UKM
interest to contest such remarks, however we would like to bring into
light the past events so that we could trace and establish the reasons
for being performed poorly, so that the future projects could benefit
from this lesson.
82. For USM, the university faced little problem in implementing the
project. Both the projects were completed within good time, except for
minor problem of temporary storage of some equipment for the School of
Engineering which arrived before the building was ready.
Major Lessons Learned
83.  The MOE is aware of the importance in monitoring the project
implementation. However, the MOE would also like to suggest to the Bank
to consider the following:
(a)  In carrying out any future university development programme,
the end user's needs should determine the project cost, not
vice-versa.
28



(b) The implementing agencies, i.e., UKN and USM, should be given
the authority in making the financial decision.
(c) The Bank should be consistent and persistent in carrying out
their policies and on the type of information and data to be
furnished by the borrower.
(d) Issues and problems should be addressed at the earliest
possible date.
Relation with the Bank
84. The relationship between the Bank and the Borrowers has been
cordial. Issues of concern were discussed openly and attempts to resolve
them were made as soon as possible.
Conclusion
85. Generally, the MOE is satisfied with the assistance and cooperation
of the World Bank's personnel for the development of Engineering and
Medical Faculties of USM and UKM's Engineering Faculty. We would like
to reiterate that the intake of students for the said faculties was also
done as scheduled.
29






PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. RELATED EDUCATION PROJECTS IN MALAYSIA
Project       Loan          Principal Areas of Coverage       Year of         Status       Comments
Sequence       Number                                          Approval
I          559-MA       Primary                            FY69          Completed
Secondary
Agricultural
Technical
II          810-MA       Educational television Curriculum    FY72        Completed
Development
Capacity
Higher Education
m            974-MA       Teacher Training                   FY74          Completed
Educational Broadcasting
Secondary
Polytechnic
IV         1329-MA       Industrial Training                FY77          Completed
Primary Education
V         1657-MA       Secondary                          FY79          Completed
Public Administration
Training
Ministry of Education Staff
Training
VI         2145-MA       Industrial Training I              FY82          Completed
VIn         2601-MA       Industrial Training 11            FY85           Completed         -
vm          2685-MA        Primary and Secondary             FY86          Completed         -
Sector I
IX         2887-MA       University                         FY88          Completed         -
X         2987-MA       Primary and Secondary              FY89          Completed         -
Sector 11
XI         3536-MA       Primary and Secondary              FY93          Implemen-         -
Sector III                                   tation
ongoing
XII         3571-MA       Polytechnic                        FY93          Implemen-         -
tation
31



Table 2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item             Date Planned          Date Revised          Actual Date
Identification       June-July 1986                             June-July 1986
Preparation                                                     March 1987
Appraisal Mission    October 1986         June 1987             June 1987
Loan Negotiations    April 1987
Board Approval       April-June 1987      December 1987         November 24, 1987
Loan Signature                                                  December 14, 1987
Loan Effectiveness                                              February 25, 1988
Project Completion    December 31, 1991                         December 31, 1993*
Loan Closing         December 31, 1992                          December 31, 1992**
Final Activity on    December 31, 1992                          May 14, 1993
Account
* Staff development component (financed entirely by Government) is still
on-going. Physical elements were completed by December 1993.
**Loan Account held open until May 1993 for reimbursement of outstanding commitments.
32



Table 3. DISBURSEMENT OF LOAN PROCEEDS
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2887-MA)
(a) DISBURSEMENTS PLANNED AND ACTUAL (By FY)
(in USSm.)
FY                FY88             FY89                FY90        [       FY91                 FY92                 FY93
Semester               1       2        1        2         1         2          1         2         1          2         1          2
(A) AppraisaL          --      1.1     6.3     13.9       24.9     33.9       42.0      45.1      46.9       47.9     48.2
EEstimate*
(B) Actual                     --    4.62    13.53    18.60    26.38         33.32    34.90    39.62        42.09      42.82     46.54
(C) Actual as %                -0-    73.3    97.3        74.7      77.8       79.3     77.4      84.5        87.9      88.8
of Estimate        I__I I__                                                          I         I          I         I            96.6
*The usuaL disbursement schedule was not included in the SAR or Working Papers; this schedule has been taken from the July
1991 Supervision Mission report
(b) DISBURSEMENTS PLANNED AND ACTUAL (By Category)
(in USS)
Category                         ALtlocation as per Loan Agreement                     ActuaL Disbursement
Part A of the Project:
(1) (a) CiviL Works                                               29,300,000                               28,548,760.69
(b) Related Professional Services                             3,200,000                                    3,386,739.89
(2)     Equipment, furniture, books,                               6,100,000                                   4,500,383.89
vehicLes and materials
Part B of the Project:
(3) (a) CiviL Works                                                5,100,000                                7,043,972.17
(b) ReLated Professional Services                               800,000                                   566,418.39
(4)     Equipment, furniture, books,                               2,800,000                                2,491,015.87
vehicLes and materials
(5)     Unallocated                                                  900,000
Totally Disbursed                                                                                 46,537,290.90
Canceled                                                                                            1,662,709.10
TOTAL                                                    48,200,000                               48,200,000.00
33



Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
(a) UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UKM FELLOWSHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
FACULTY OF ENGINEERING
(In staff months except where otherwise indicated)
Department               1986    1987    1988    1989       1990      1991     1992      1993      1994      1995     1996      TOTAL
Civil & Structural       4.5    12        12      12        45        57       80        82        75       34         3         416.5
(staff months)
ElectricaL &              -       3       22      33.5      33       22        32.5      39        40        18        9         252.0
Electronic
(staff months)
Chemical & Process        -       -        -       3        15       36        62.5      57        68.5      27       12         281.0
(staff months)
Mechanical &              -       3       12      12        23.5      45       50.5      74        60        45.5     19         344.5
Materials
Lab. Technician        I___5                                12        12        7                                                 36
TOTAL in staff           4.5    18       46       65.5    128.5    172        232.5    252        243.5    124.5      43        1330
months
TOTAL in staff           0.4      1.5      3.8     5.5      10.7      14.3     19.4      21        20.3      10.3      3.6       110.8
years____
Appraisal                 -       -       53      56        61        66         -        -         -         -         -        236
Projection of Staff
Source: CaLculations of staff months made by the Completion Mission on the basis of detailed data (incLuding names of individual fellows)
supplied by UKM; appraisal figures taken from Annex 7 of SAR. The Completion Mission notes, however, that a UKM scheduLe presented
to the first Supervision Mission showed approximately 11 staff years in 1985 and 15.5 in 1986; presumably, in the data assembLed for
the Completion Mission, the commencement date of the project-related Technical Assistance was taken to refer to those who began their
courses in 1986.
(b) UKM FACULTY OF ENGINEERING
SUMMARY OF UKM FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM
Department              Total of    On Ph.D        On Masters      TOTAL of          TOTAL OF STAFF YEARS          TOTAL
Fellows     Program       Program        Staff Years                                      1988-91
1986-96        1988 1 1989    1990  1 1991                l
Civil etc.                   13          10           3 (1)          34.7
Electrical etc                7           7           0 (1)          21.0
Chemical etc.                 8           5           3 (3)          23.4
MechanicaL etc.               9           7           2 (3)          28.7                                                   l
TOTAL                        37          29          8 (8)             110.8      3.8  | 5.5  | 10.7 | 14.3          34      l
Appraisal Targets    I _           I             I             I _                53      56       51      66               l
Source: Compiled by Completion Mission on the basis of data supplied by UKM and data drawn from the SAR.
Note: The Faculty was established in November 1984.  The data apply to persons sent abroad in the period 1986-1994 and those
intended to be sent 1994-96. The table therefore does not incLude persons who were abroad prior to 1986.
The numbers shown in parenthesis on the Masters program represent the number who benefitted from this program but
subsequently went on to the Ph.D; these are included in the Ph.D figures.
34



Table 5. PROJECT COSTS
Estimated (in M$ 000s) & Actual (in M$)
Category                          Appraisal Estimate              Actual Cost                   Difference (%)
1. USM: Enrineering  a. Construction                      35,622.5
b. Fumiture/Equipment                       9,700
c. Professional Services                    6,500
Sub-total (a-c)                      51,882.5                    49,739,794.44                 2,142,705.56 (-4.13)
d. Fellowships                              23,424.0                      - na -
e. Specialists                              2,596.9                       - na -
f. Research etc.                            2,077.5                      - na -
Sub-total (d-f)                           28,098.3                      - na -
Medical Sciences a. Construction                        41,323.0
b. Furniture/Equipment                      5,700.0
c. Professional Services                    3,300.0
Sub-total (a-c)                           50,323.0                    52,118,773.82                1,795,773.82 (+3.37)
d. Fellowships                              23,359.1                      - na -
e. Specialists                              2,596.9                       - na -
f. Research etc.                            3,116.2                       - na -
Sub-total (d-f)                           29,072.2                      - na -
SUBTOTALUSM                                   159,316.0                     -na -
2. UKM: Engineerine  a. Construction                       13,211.5
b. Furniture & Equipment                    7,000.0
c. Professional Services                     1,600.0
Sub-total (a-c)                           21,811.5                    40,471,262.11                18,659,763.11 (+85.6)
d. Fellowships                              17,611.3                      - na -
e. Specialists                              2,596.9                       - na -
f. Research etc.                              727.1                       - na -
g. Rentals                                    106.5                       - na -
Sub-total (d-f)                           21,041.8                      - na -
SUB-TOTAL UKM                                 42,853.3                      - na -
3. MOE:          a. Fellowships                             774.3                       - na -
b. Specialists                                519.4                       - na -
SUB-TOTAL MOE                                  1,293.6                      - na -
GRAND TOTAL                                               203,462.9                     - na -
35



Table 6. PROJECT RESULTS
Direct Benefits
Table 6 (a) (i)
STUDENT ENROLLMENT AT USM AND UKM
APPRAISAL FORECAST AND ACTUAL
Institution                                              Appraisal                    Appraisal              Actual  (by            Current 1993/94
Interim Target              Eventual                interim target
Target                 date)
USM:  Four Schools of Engineering:
BacheLors degree                    880 (1990)                 1,200                  474 (1990/91)          1,064
Diploma Programs                    400 (1990)                   600                                              0
Post Grad. Programs                 xxx                          xxx                                             36
TOTAL                            1,200*                       1,800                                          1,100
School  of Medical  Sciences:
MD Program                          640 (1991/92)                                     477 (1990/91)              n.a.
Diplomas                            244      "                                        n.a.
M.Sc.                                20      "                                          3                        n.a.
Doctorate                              7     "                                          3                        n.a.
Master of Medicine                    56     "                                         28                        n.a.
TOTAL                               967      "**               1,200***              511                       875 (1992-93)
UKM:
Faculty of Engineering
B.Sc.                               695 (1991/92)              1,000                  380 (1991/92)            434
Post Graduate                       140 (1991/92)                200                   33 (1991/92)              42
TOTAL                               835****                   1,200*****             413                       476
*     Source:  Bachelors and diploma programs data are taken from the Appraisal Working Papers;  the total of 1200 comes
from para. 2.3 of the SAR and applies to "students in undergraduate and post-graduate courses and research".
**    Working Papers.
*     SAR, para.  2.7.
*     SAR, Annex 5, Table 3.
*****SAR, para. 2.10
Table 6 (a) (ii)
UKM: ENGINEERING
STUDENT ENROLLMENT GROWTH
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT                                                      1991-92                         1992-93                     1993-94
Chemical & Process                                                            118                                 91                          93
Civil & Structural                                                               73                               61                          58
Electrical, Electronic &                                                      119                               199                         200
Systems
Mechanical & Materials                                                        103                               114                          125
TOTAL                                                                         413                               465                         476
Appraisal Projection                                                          835                               910                         n.a.
Source: Compiled by Completion Mission on the basis of data supplied by UKM
and the SAR.
36



Table 6 (a) (iii)
GRADUATES FROM PROJECT INSTITUTIONS/DISCIPLINES
Institution       Year    Technology Graduates   Medicine Graduates
USM           1987              86                     110
UKM           1987               7                      ---
Total                            93                     110
USM           1992             248                     172
UKM           1992              92                ___
Total                           340                     172
Source: Ministry of Education Higher Education Division
37



Table 6.
(b) Sector Impact
(i) Research Program Summarv
UKM Faculty of Engineering
Department                              Topic                                                       Utility
Chemical        1.  Drawing toot packages for computer graphics           Drawing on the experiences gained, private companies
and             software                                                  have commercialized them locally.
Process
Engineering    2.  Computer software design for control of                Joint venture with a private company--software being
fermentation process                                     marketed and upgraded.
3.  Developing membranes for separation                   Malaysia Technological Development Corporation is
processes, e.g., in treating paLm oil and natural    commercializing the membranes produced.
rubber effluents, in water filtration, and in
separation of CO from natural gas
4.  Developing bio-insecticides with palm oil as          At the field testing stage.
fermentation medium
5.  Software for quantitative risk assessment             Useful for firms to prepare risk analysis for hazardous
materials.  In development stage.
6.  Drying of palm kernel, rice and cocoa -               Models will assist in designing efficient dryers for
design of mathematical models                             these crops.
Electrical,    1. Computer technology:                                    Multiple applications, e.g.,
Electronic,       a) voice recognition,                                     a)      instant translation
and System        b) image analysis,                                        b)     security (Telekom)
Engineering       c) micro-processor development systems,                   c)     teaching
d) use of PC in spectrum analysis                         d)     teaching and research
e) digital filter                                         e)     analysis of signals
2. Micro-electronics:
a) micro-fabrication facility and testing                 a)     for sensor fabrication
b) optoelectronic and optical fiber technology            b)     for opttcal communication and sensor
c) software on submicron and buLk unipolar high           c)     for teaching and research
speed devices
3.  Expert systems/automation:
a) data bases for trouble shooting and                    a) of relevance to firms with which the research
manufacturing                                             engineers are working
b) hydraulic robot                                        b) use in hazardous situations
4.  Communications:
a) ionosphere (comparing tropicaL and cold                a) for satellite technology
climate ionosphere)
b) satellite signal receiving                             b)     -  ditto -
c) coding and transmission                                c) for teLecommunication
Civil and       1.  Geotechnical engineering - characteristics of    PWD has used results of this research in deveLoping the
Structural      granite residual soil and soft clay slope                 new trunk road connecting the East-West Highways to
Engineering    stability in relation to underground water                 Kuala Kansa.
2.  Bridge engineering - modification of                  Aimed at constructing bridges more efficiently,
techniques in beam and girder design                      corrosion resistant, aesthetically appealing, etc.  In
the testing stages.
3.  Concrete testing - mathematical models to test   In collaboration with PWD to help promote efficiency in
chloride penetration into concrete and new non-           testing and maintenance.
destructive ways of testing concrete.
38



Mechanical    1.        Energy and combustion:
and              a)  pilot pLant fluidized-bed combuster                  a)  Built with ASEAN/Australian Cooperation Program;
MateriaLs                                                               to burn low grade coal for power generation
Engineering      b)  natural gas-fueled engine                            b)  Petrogas interested - to reduce pollution
c)  LPG-fueled small engine                              c)  Petrogas interested - to determine single fuel
compatibility
d)  soLar energy collection for hot water and            d)  Environmentally clean
drying.
2.     Materials:
processing and properties of rubber-based polymer          Increased use of Local resource in engineering.
blends.
3.       Advanced Mechanics:
a)  Noise assessment software development                a)  To predict noise levels in environmentaL studies
b)  Equipment and expertise in precision                 b)  To save energy by carrying out precision
maintenance technology.                                  maintenance, e.g., reduce losses in power turbines.
(National Power showing interest).
4.       Manufacturing:
Computer-aided Design and Computer-aided           To promote automation in manufacturing.
manufacturing.                                                                                                         I
39



Table 6.
(b) SECTOR IMPACT
(ii) MOE BUDGET--SUB-SECTOR SHARES BEFORE AND AFTER PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Ministry of Education Operating Budget. 1985. 1986. 1993 and 1994
(M$ million)
1985      J         1986                  1 1993      )         1994
Amount       %    j Amount        %    { Amount j    %          Amount        %
Prirnary and secondary    2,557.8     67.9    2,691.2       66.5   5,065.9       69.5    5,005.9        65.1
Technical and vocational    72.6        1.9      80.0        2.0      249.8        3.4      298.8        3.9
Teacher Training           154.1       4.4      211.5        5.2      298.1       4.1       400.2        5.2
Higher Education           570.2      15.1      638.6       15.8   1,000.6        13.7    1,102.4       14.3
[of which universities]   [453.8]    1 12.0]    [492.0]    [12.2]
General administration      148.1      3.9       148.5       3.7      264.7       3.6       283.7        3.7
Planning, research and      25.0       0.7       26.6        0.6       49.7       0.7        47.1        0.6
evaluation
Student welfare a/         230.6       6.1      250.6        6.2      357.5       4.9       548.0        7.1
Total          3,768.4    100.0  4,047.09b      100.0   7,286.2        99.9    7,686.1       99.9
a/    Includes scholarships and bursaries. In 1986, these accounted for M$105 million of the total.
bl    Indicative figure for 1987 is M$4,019 million of which M$660 million (16.4 %) is allocated to higher education
Source: 1985/86 figures and related footnotes - SAR
1993/94 figures - Table compiled by Completion Mission on the basis of statistics supplied by EPU.
40



Table 7. STATUS OF COVENANTS
Proiect Completion Report
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2887-MA)
Covenant
Section                          Subject                                     Status
2.02 (b)         Borrower to maintain Special Accounts    Special Accounts not established - Government
2.02 (c)         for Part A (USM) and Part B (UKM)       decision accepted by Bank.
2.06             Repayment of interest and principal in   Complied with
2.07             accordance with Schedule
3.01             Borrower to carry out Project           Complied with
3.02             Procurement of goods and services       Complied with
financed by Loan proceeds
3.03             Borrower to carry out staff training and    Programs carried out on a reduced scale;
technical assistance programs agreed with  Reviewed with Bank missions.
the Bank and review annually with the
Bank
3.04             Borrower to prepare for university      Contribution to the Sixth Plan 1990-94 accepted
development and finance for the period  by Bank as meeting this covenant
after 1990
4.01             Maintenance of records and accounts to    Generally complied with. However, the records
reflect operations resources and       of expenditures in regard to the fellowships,
expenditures in respect of the Project and   expert services, and research of USM and UKM
furnish to the Bank such information   were not separately maintained and are therefore
concerning said records and accounts as    not available to the Completion Mission.
the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
41



Table 8.  USE OF BANK RESOURCES
(a) BANK STAFF TIME INPUTS (in Staff Weeks)
Project Cycle Stage            FYS5       FY86      FY87        FY88       FY89      FY90       FY91      FY92      FY93       FY94          Total
Identification/Preparation      1. 5      11.4        9.4                                                                                    22.3
Appraisal                                            25.4        7.9                                                                         33.3
Loan Negotiations                                                5.2                                                            _            5.2
Supervision                                                      5.0        11.0      7.7       10.9       3.7       3.7        1.1          43.1
Completion Reporting                                                                                       =                    716           7.6
TOTAL                           I.5        11.4      34.8        18.1       11.0       7.7      10.9       3.7       3.7        8.7          111.5
(b) MISSION DATA
Type of         Staff   Special-                        Mandatory ratings                                          Other Ratings_
hILdon          Days   izations
and date        in                     Overall   Project    Project    Status    Avallab-                 Progress in                Environ    Finan-
field                  Status     Dev.      Manage   of          ility of                                           -mental    dal
Object-   -meat      Coven-   Funds       Procure    Train-    Tech.    Studies    Aspects    Perfor-
Ives                 ants                 -ment      Ing      Asst                           mance
Identif-         86     TE, A,
Ication:                Med, Ec.
6-7/86
RLeview:         15      TE.
11186
Preparation:     26     TE, A.
3/87
Appraisal:       44     TETE-A
6/87
Supervision
1: 1/88                A, TE             I         1*          1       -'-         I          --        --        ---                            -
II: 9-10/88     48     Ed, A, P.         1         1,          I                              _                                       .          _
nn: 3/89         11     A.                I        1J*         1         -          1          1         1        1         1       NR ...        I
IV: 9189        40     A, OO, Ec.        1          1          1         1         1          1         1         1         2          1         1
V: 2-3/90       7      A.               I          1          I         I         1          2          1        1         2          1          1
V1:10-11/90     30     A, 00.            2          2         2          2         1          2         2         2         2         1          I
V116191          25     A, A, OO.        2          2          2         2          I         2          2        2         2          1         NR
VJ1: 10/92        7     A.                2          2          1         1         1          1         2         2         2          1        NR
Compietion       38      Ed, H.Ed.
4/94
Legend: A=Architect; Ec=Economist; Ed=Education Specialist; H.Ed=Higher Education Specialit; Med.=Medtcal Speciaist; OO=Operatlons Omcer; P=Procurement Specialist.
*Tbis specialit (listed in the SAR as a TE) was the head of a higher education institutlon in the UK and was, therefore, , higher education specialist; his role was mainly on the planning
and management component.
Rating of Development impact. -*1 Rating not required at the time. -*1* No Rating given.
42



PART 1: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT: MALAYSIA
-UNIVgNSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1 ..ADEQUACYANLg ACCURACY OF FACTUAL INFORMATION IN
PART I (PROJECT REViEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE)
AND PART IlI (SIATISTICAL INFORMATION)
I) Evaluation summary
No.   Page         Pw'a             Related Words/Staterent                       New senlsnces/statement
we want to change
1.   Page 3     Para 4       The project, estimated.  an unusual     The project estimated .., different financlal arrangement.
financing arrangement.
41    2.   Page 4     Para 7       The MOE component..- provided useful    Comrnents wlil be Included In Part II.
perspectives.
3.   Page 4     Para 8,      At USM In 1993 - 94,.... compared to   At USM In 1993 - 94, the enrolment In Engineerlng was
the target of 1,200.                    1,i 00 oompared to a target of 1,800, This target
.  .    !                                 .           Includes a diploma program whloh was deolded not to be
Implemented at the moment Exclu ding the diploma
program, the enrolment total of t,1100 undergraduates
plus the graduate program had cortaenly met the
.                    .                                appraisal target.
4.   Page 616   Para 10,     The School of Medicinal Solences .....  The School of Medlcal Sclences had expanded
laboratory technology,                 Its diploma medlcal laboratory technology
program, broadened the speciaflizations offered
. -,. , .z



; Nio.    Page       P ara            Related Words/Statement                        New sentences/statemsnt
we want to change
...................   ......
In the Master of Medleine programn and added a
new diploma program In nursing.
6,   Page 6     Para 16      There was a small ..... than origlnally  The cost overrun Incurred by UKM Is due to the
planned.                                expanded scope of work as follows:
.- Inilal allocatlon R M21.96 millon.
Floor area 160,000 sq. It.
Enrollment 600 students.
- Revised aflooation RM28.47 million.
Floor area.273,000 sq. It.
Enrollment 1,200 students.
- Final Allooatlon RM39.97 million,
Floor area 243,000 sq. ft.
Enrollment 1,200 students
The inItIal allocation was commensurate
with the scope of work I,e. RM21.95 mililon
to bulld 160,000 sq. ft and lo acoommodate
600 students. To Increase the scope from
160,000 sq. ft, and increase the enrolmenl
from 600 to 1200 students, It Is only reasonable
to Increase the allocatlon from RM 21.95
million to RM39.97 million. Thus, there Is
no questlon of poor estimate as mentioned
The total amount of loan (Including USM)
was Infact reduced from US$48.2 million to
US$46.6 mililon.



No.    Page         Para             Related Words/StatemanI                         New sentences/slatemfen
we want lo change
6.   Page 6      Para 20      Supervision misslon ..,, aooountlng      To blame the supervision milssions by saying that they
data should be assembled,                consisted chiefly of architects Is not acceptable.
The fact Is, throughoul the projeci Implementation
period, this Item had never really been highilghted
by the Bank. The Bank should share equal
responsibility for the non-fulfilment of this provison.
And there was no necesslly for 1he Bank to brief the
universlties regarding the way In whilh the reoording
and accounting data should be assembled as they would
have been quite capable of dolng so If this requirement
had been raised at an earlier stage.
7.   Page 7      Para 21 a    The protracted Indecislon on the part of  This sentenoes Is not acceptable. There Is no question of
contral government agencies and UI(M     indecislon, The normal government budgetary process
on.the budget for the UKM physical       Involves discussion and n.egotlations on deciding the
tacfiltles.                              appropriate quuantum of budget for all government
agencles inoluding UKM.
Para 21 b   Falure to keep separate records of TA    See page 1 , para 1 B, It Is clearly stipulated that 'The
expenditures.                           ratonale was that the government sought financlng only
for its development (capital) eXpenditure .......... on the
Fifth Plan budget". Whereas, TA expenditure Is considered
as recurrent budget,
In additlon, the bank has admitted not giving early
attention on'the matter of TA (see page 6 para 20).
Para 21 a   Insufficient lalison between the project  Close liaison between the project offie and the
office and the aoademnic staff at UKM or the   aoademIc staff did In fact exIst during the planning and
fallitlies being provided.              tender stage. There was minimal consultation during
the construction stage,



No..   Page.       Para             Related Words/Statement                        New sentences/slatement
we want to change
_ -
* 8.   Page 7    Para 23c    The value of detailed .... the university  The report gives the impressson Ihat there was no
rmnanagement and planning component.    detailed planning and programming with regard lo
forecasting studehl enrolment, staH tralning, staff
attritlon and university management and planning
components. Our comment is that, as far as staff
training Is concerned, the universities have achleved
oonsiderable sucoess and they lace no problem In
this area. Regarding staff attritlon, It Is agreed there
Is a problem, but this Is unlorseeable. The reason for this
was the economic boom which provided opporiunliles
elsewhere, and such externalities were beyond the
universities' control, Regarding the university
management and planning oomponent, this has not
been a problem and the MinIstry of Eduoatlon Is
capable of looking Into this matter.



-1I Part 1: Prolot Revie ttfrom the Bank's Perei0otlve
No.    Page        Para             Related Words/Statement                        New santences/statemnent
we want to change
1.   Page 12      Para 5     Higher education expanslon               The planning for higher education Is clsariy expressed
In the post 1990 era                    In the live year development plans. Ilt ls untrue to say
that the expanslon of higher eduoation Is not based
on a long range perspeoUlve.
; The tact that the higher education subseclor has been
provided for eaoh ol ths five ysar development plians
undertaken Indloates thal planning has been oonduoted
on a long term perspecUve.
2..  Page 16     Para 11    The expansionr.....It was designed to assist,.  In a rneetIng between the World Bank, Treasury,
Mlnistry of Eduoation and the univeralties during the
early stage of the project 11 was agreed that Part C of
the loan component was to be omitted, However, to
our surprise ths component was silil Included In the
packages,
3.   Page 16     Para17 The univermity management .....              As explalned In page 16, P ara 11, It was agreed that
this component as designed.             the universlty managemeni and planning component
would be omltted. Hence, the Mlnistry of EducatLon Is
not committed to Implement this component,



No.    Page        FeParn           Rislad Words/Stalement                        New sentences/statemen-
we want to change
4.    Page 7      Para 19    Th9 roles ot the universltles,.....     The long term planning of the higher education In ihis
Jrnplmenitaon strategy was             country Is documented as part and parcel of the live
required.                               year development plans. The long-lerm pfannilng of
of higher eduoatIon Is reflected In these live year
development plans,
6.   Page 17    Para 20      The Borrower understanding              During the meetings held at the unlversitles to discuss the
... . had been done to                  Project Completion Report, It became evident that the
implement It                            Bank's officals and the Universilles had divergent
Interpretatlons as to what was expeoted of the
univeralsies regarding accounting requirement for the
techntcal assistance cotnponent The universities were
taken by surprlss to learn that they were supposed to
keep separate accounts of all tralning expected from
P-                 .local funding. These figures could not be suppiled
because of the complexity ol the accounts conoerned
which cover both the Government's (Publio Services
Department and universities' funds. While It was
correctly pointed out by the Bank's represenlativee
that there was a reference to thls Item In the Loan
Agreement, It re signilicani that this item had never
been tnoluded In the reports submitted by the
universities to the Bank and the absence of this Item
had never been quarled earfer. I Is puzzflng that this
Issue which aommartded no attentlon during the
ImplernentatUon stage has been given prominence In
the fIna report
Aithough the Staff Appraisal Report oontalns provisions
for the technlcal assistance component, there was little
-~~ 



- - *
No.    Pals        Para            Related Nords/Slelernen                       New sanie noes/statement
we want to change
mentlon of H In the Loan Agreement. It It -had been
such an Important component ol the project It should
. have been Included.
The Universitles never knew this responsibillty to
acoount separately for government expenditure on the
prog;ramme for teohnloal assistanoe, one possible
explanation Is that, when the Staff Appraisal Report
was preparoc, a provislon of US$25.6m waa provided
but this was taken out and not Included In the Loan
Agreement, However, for some reason, Part C was
retained as an ob)eollve when In faot It was never
operatlve.
'.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
8.   Page 18    Para 22     it Is also clear ...not entirely       It would be useful If the Bank provided the basis on
helpful to fmplementatlon.             which this statement was made. This is because staff
development has been good at both universlaes
and there la no need for the Wold Bankc to be Involved
In the planning of this, The Malaysian Govemment Is
capable of undertaking Its own staff development.
I. 



No.    Page        Para             Ralated Words/Jtatemen-l                       New sntencas/statsment
we want to change
7.    Page 20    Para 24,    The set of studies.... as                The planning as carried out In the five year development
Part C    envisaged under the project              plans Is based on an Integrated approach.
Acoordingly, pollcy dlecisions are taken on the basis ot
such plans. Hence, it 18 not true for the World Ban k to
say that there Is no systematlo Integrated program
leading to pollcy decisions.
8.   Page 20      Para 26    Preparation of the university planning .......   ilIs recognised that the Higher Education Division of
to better promote consensus buliding.   MOE Is small In size, But, It's capacity and capabilily
to contrlbute towards the planning and management
of higher educalton In this oountry Is nevertheless
significant.
9.   Page 20    Foot-note  Indeed, USM had madia olear ........ under    This Is not recollaction of this at USM.
pro)eot                                 Therefore, this foot-note shiould be deleted,
10.   Page 21   Para 26      Bank Supervislon missions ........       The MOE feels unhappy with the condescending tons of
Items In Part A and B,                  the report beoausa we are capable oi devising the
require format for the technical assistance Items In
Parts A and B.
11.   Page 21     Para 2O    While In Its physical ...... that       To replace the sentenoo wlth ...While In Its physical
should be noted.                        aspeots the project was well Implemented, there were
some aspects In design and constructilon of the
physloal plant that should be noted".



No.    Page        Para             Related Wordes/8tatemeni                       New soniencee/s/alemeni
we want to change
12.   Page 21     Para 28,    Shortcomings are minor                  To replace the word "Shortcom]ngs" wilth 'Defects",
........ In somo areas.
13.  Page 22    Para 29      The "sport complexr' ..... modest sport hall,   The sports complex consists of gymnaslu m,
badminton hall and squash court.
14.  Page 22    Para 30      For the ... thele were extra-ordinary    Should be read "... For the .... there were substantial
delays.                                 delays",
Problems at the outset...,. unreallstic cost    Should be read "Problems at the oulse91.. master
estimates.                              Plan and the project was based on low cost estimates".
1 S.  Page 13    Para 34c    The llmited commitment,.... planning     It ls not true that there li limlted capaclly of the Borrower
planning component.                     with regard to the university managsment and planning
components. it rnay be true that there Is 1lmited reporting
with regard lo the TA component. As exp]alned earlier,
this Item should Intaot be omitted from tha aggrement
16.  Page 24    Para 40      On the .. Project OffIce.,               This paragraph should be deleted.
t7.  Page 16    Para lG      The required momentum ..........., Should be read ", The required momentum of
had been acoepted at USM.               prep arallon was never really achieved, especlally as
EPU was at that time seeking to reduce 1he gross tloor
area from 273,000 sq. ft. to 210,000 sq. ft. and to
reduce the standard wlth which ...
'"The UKM cornponent, ... and relled on a  Should be read "The UKM oomponent ..... and relled
cost eslimate tihat was Initlally unrealilstloally  on a cost estirnate that was Initially relatlvely lows.
low.



No.    Page         Para             Related Words/8tatsmsnt                         New sentancas/staemrnsnt
. _     iwe want to change
1 B.  Page 22    Para 30      For the Faculty of Engineering,           Should be read as For tha Faculty of
there were extraordinary delays. Problems   Enginesrlng, there were substantled dalays.
at the outset ...............
Page 22    Para31       "Wlth all those vicissltudes at UKM       Should be changed to "Wlth all these vicissitudes at
Instead o1 at the front where the        UKM, several problems arose. These
]loturer can control them.               Inolud.. de  and equlpment Improperly Installed.
NOTE: All the shortfals mentioned In para 31 have
been reotIfied by the contraclors because the
bullding Is stlll wilhin 'defeat Ilabllity period'
(between Noovember 1993-to'Noveinbar 1-994).
-     Flooding Is not due to the poor desIgn. it 1s a
maintenance problem.
-      Unsatisfaotory safety situation In the
compressed air and steam system have been
rectilled and oertilied by the Factory and
Machinery Department.



No.    Page         Para             Related Words/Slatlemenl                         New soniences/statemenl
wo want to change
19,  Pags 22    Para 31       Fluldized - bad Combuster and            To be replaced as follows:
Sedimentatlon Testing.
"The Fluldlzed - bed combuster and Ssdlmentation Testing
are not meant to be housed In the maln bullding. They
are to be accommodated separately. These facililies wete
sheolved temporatily due to space raduotilon Instruoted by
ths EPU. Currently, the constructlon ot the fluldized bed
combuster premise Is almost completed. The
Sedimentatlon Testlng Laboratory will be provided soon In
a separale premise."
20,  Page 32    Para 12      'The provislon ol one building lor the    Although one bullding was consirucled to accommodate
faculty Instead of 6eparate bulldings for  the taoully Instead ot separate bulldings for each
Iaoh depariments, renders 11 dllIcuWI    departments, It was considered suticiBant some
to expand the bullding lo accommodale    ample spaces are avallable within the vicinity
fulure Increase In enrollment in         of the Engineerlng Facully to acoornmodate
partloular departments.                  for the future expanalon.
*      The Prollminary Architectual drawing for the
bullding was approved by the Bank's Arohlteato.
21.  Page 24    Para 40       On the other hand .-... the three changes In   Should be read.
the projeol direoctor at UKM not only
delayed Implementalion slightly, It also  "The three changes In the project director and
hampered the close IlaIson between the  'the dean as wall as the head of the department have
Faculty and the Projeot OHlofe.          slightly hampered the smooth running of the project
al the planning and [mplementatlon stages".



No.    Page          ParE             F9elated Words/StSale mnt                          Novi sontances/stalamBnt
_we want to change
22.   Page 24    Para 38       The explosive growth In the construction    NOTE: This sentence jusilfles UKIMi's low cost
Industry did Jeopardiza for a time the pace       estimates as stipulatedc In page 22, para 30,
of the ongolng clvil works program by             and accounts for the shortcomings
driving up constiruction prloes and               In construotion workmanship as mentioned In
mraking labour scarce,                            page 22 para 31.
23.   Page 25    Para 42       e) ...... the Inflatlon of construotIon    This slalement Is Inaccurate..
costs In 1989, there was an eveniuail      The maln reason lor the cost oVerrun is the
cost overrun of the order of 85,8%'.      Increased In the scope of work.
Other laotors conlrlbullng to the cost overrun
are the high Inflationary rata In the construction
industry and the delay In the Impiementatlon
. stage.
24.  Page 29    Para64         The results .... Loan Nagotlatlions.       On the comment by the completion misslon that
the Borrower never invited the Bank to assist in
the planning ol hlgher education, Ihis Is true and
the reason Is that the Government felt that It Is
oapable ol dolng so wlthout the Bank's asslstance,



-  -
No.    Page         Para             Related Words/Stalerneni                        Now bentences/slatemenie
we stant 10 change
26.  Page 29    Para 56       The higher educatlon oonlent ,.... the   II's not true lo say that the 7ive year development plan
appraisal scheduled assumed.            I.e the 6th. Malaysla Plan - (1991 - 1 996) Is not the kincd
of long term planning that was orIginally envlsaged
In the Loan Agreement. This Is beoause over ihe
years, the process ol long term planning In Malaysia has
been based on the acoumulatlon and conlinuatlon of the
flive year development plans. We would also lIke lo
Indicate that the seminars organised by MOE In 192 and
1 993 have provided us wlth a very clear dIrectilon of higher
eduoation In this country. We would like to emphaslze
that the resolutlons of the seminars have provided
sIgnliicant Input for developing our own plan for
hlgher aducation.
26.  Page 34    Para 71 b     The shortcomings in the.....nd provision    The statement Is Inaccurate.
of the bulidings and equlpment.
-     Closs fiason dId exist between the project
offlo and academlo staff durlng planning stage
and minilmal consultatlon did exist during the
oonitrttofon stage,
27.  Page 25    Para 79       For UKM, apart from the fact that the   This statement Is Inaccurate. All the consultants
consultant was less experlenced ..,     Involved In These projeots are among the established
reduoe.d consultatilon with the end users.  and well- known firms avallable locally.
-AA/. -
YAAIUra






IBRD 20253
MALAYSIA
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
/f.                      T H A I L A N D
5angorl )\ [ <  ...................... U SM  - School.  of fnE,n ee,-
j,,o \                                                                                                          AJtrP      0505 tunnpos  ^   U    - School of MeSf cdl Sceoces
UKMR- F.c.Ity oF Engi-e-gC
Mesgoog      AIoi etur                                                 \                                                                 <) .. c'uns,  .... J  T1i5KubanFEDERAL  ROADS
-.n                             ~~~~~~~OTHER  ROADS
_c-   \ \   )   2    ---\ ----.--5-RAILWAYS
r)il  .V                 S          2-t \     \      \,,        Krmopuns h                       - STATE BOLNDAR ES
noohh                    Rai                               I -   -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
SLnqel POOl G'Bo                                                                     o,h.*5                                               20 U        00          0
MILES
B_mbong Limo,                                                                            K d K,o,
GeorgeT2                                    If                                                                                                     I ,  LOMETERS
P D/NANO T                                                                                                                                 K. rg
tb    f   )                        i                                              \t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~renggonu
p            r r\ 
Ku3bS Y<roo     t                                                                          
Por,      W     ld      S wel  Thong 
0vL  toh  ,                       )                                                            )
, .  I,                 hmk
Sungef Boging
So  /elo C     s.   -, 
H, Ir Perok                      '-                sbJ1                                                      uns
\              t        i~~~~~~~~~~rtongs               o       
Tuonong Ka7ong.,,erio
Kuols Selo.goa n             Ooro
l   >:KU~~ALA LUMPtJP \                 J
-1'         F>.' /l.t5S.'Ent.'C'd'EDt       Pod Kan                     K aol lo K l nq
Os'.- ,h On on Oak ,o tha
4"sy .440.4 HV.,.5.e;a sa 110                       Diko                      Tor1  n     ecs         Sgr
s:cola',ceol~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ec
Fn0 4h' I0.40rF05 ndFere 0 -c SI                                                                       q.,no_
THAILAND---
~~~~~~~
.VIETM,
NIAM                         2l-lUF
DA                                                                                                                             A Io   u                    Johor Bahr.
~~  //   ~ ~                                INDONESIA
-%  s< oSfOAPOE  -r  's  1I141.- nLeS u m  a t e r ca
N   D   0    1',  E   5                                                                                                1                 /C/                    SIG3R
JULY 1987









IMAGI NG
Report No:       14764
Type: PCR



