RESTRICTED
Report No.   PTR-94a
This report is for official use only by the Bank Gzoup and specifically authorized organîzations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cîted without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not acoept responsbillty for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SYRIA
February 23, 1972
Transportation Projects Department



Ourrency Eauivalents
Currency Unit = Syrian Pound (SL)
US$1.00        =  SL 3.82
SL 1           = US$0.26
SL 1 million   = US$261,800
Fiscal Year
January 1 - Decomber 31
System of Weights and Neasures:  Metric
Metric                        British/US
1 meter (m)               = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (ko2) =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)            5  2.47 acres (ac)
l liter (1)               =  0.22 British gallon (imp gal)
= 0.26 US gallon (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)           =  2.2 pounde (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)      = 2,204 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acroriyms
ADT  - Average Daily Traffic
CITE - Compagnie d'Ingenieurs et Techniciens d'Etudes (consultants, France)
DHB  - Directorate of Highways and Bridges
IER  - Internal Economic Return
ILO  - International Labor Organization
OPAS - Operational Assistance Program (UNDP-financed)
SCET - Societe Centrale pour lEquipement du Territoire (consultants, France)
UNDP - United Nations Development Programme
NOTE: This report takes into account the effects of the recent currency
parity changes.



APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGRWAY PROJECT
SYRIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SIJMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..........................                     i
T.    INTRODUCTION  .....................................                     1
Il. BACKGROUND .................                                               2
A.   General .....................................                      2
B.   The Transport Sector ............... .        .........            3
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination ....              .......        5
III.    TIE HIGHWAY SECTOR ...... ...............                                7
A.   The Highway Network and Its Traffic               .........        7
B.   Highway Administration ......................                      8
C.   Highway Financing and Planning ....              ..........        8
D.   Highway Engineering .........................                      9
E.   Highway Construction  ........................                    10
F.   Highway Maintenance  .........................                    10
IV.    THE PROJECT             ......................................         il
A.   General .....................................                      il
B.   Highways to be Improved and Constructed                           12
C.   Consulting Services  .........................                    13
D.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement ..                     13
E.   Execution ...................................                     15
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ..............................                     16
A.   Ceneral .....................................                     16
B.   Benefits from the Project .....              ..............       16
C.   The Project Roads ...........................                     17
VI.    AGREEM.NTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ............                     19
This report was written by Messrs. R. Paraud (engineer) and N. Kanaan
(economist) on the basis of an appraisal mission in May 1971.



-2-
TABLES
1. Transport of Regional Transit Cargo on Syrian Highways - 1967
2. Freight Transport by Mode - 1965-69; Passenger Transport by Mode -
1965-69
3. Ports and Air Movements 1965-69
4. Vehicle Registration 1965-69
5. Highway Network 1966-69
6. Gasoline Consumption 1960-69
7. Estimates of Revenues from Road Users 1966-69
8.  Highway Expenditures 1965-69
9. Design Standards for Project Highways
10. Breakdown of Construction Cost Estimates
11. Unit Vehicle Operating Costs (per km)
12. Sensitivity Analysis of Internal Economie Returns
13. Traffic on Project Roads - 1970
ANNEXES
A. Problems Encountered in the First Highway Project
B. Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
CHART
Organization Chart of the Ministry of Communications and of the Direc-
torate of Highways and Bridges
MAP
Highway System



APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SYRIA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.         Syria's geographical location on the eastern shore of the Mediter-
ranean sea and astride the main trade routes between Asia and Europe deter-
mines its transport pattern. Syrian highways serve traffic between Jordan,
Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Iraq and other points to the east, as well as its own
and Lebanese ports. The highway system has served both the country and the
region reasonably well, but traffic increases and the development of new
economic centers necessitate the upgrading of most of the main highway net-
work and the construction of new roads.
ii.        This will be the Second Highway Project in Syria.  Under the First
Highway Project (Highway Improvement Project, Credit 46-SYR, 1963), IDA pro-
vided US$8.5 million equivalent for the improvement of the Damascus-Aleppo-
Raqqa road, the purchase of maintenance equipment, and consulting services
to prepare a program to reorganize the Department of Highways and Bridges
(DHB), as well as for a survey of the Syrian road network and the detailed
engineering of about 520 km of economically important roads. The proposed
project is based on these studies.
iii.       Inadequate engineering preparation led to delays and problems in
the execution of the Firet Highway Project; much more extensive and costly
improvements were needed than originally envisaged for the Damascus-Aleppo-
Raqqa road, and design changes during construction caused additional delays.
Works are now progressing well and are scheduled for completion by late 1973.
It was after experience with this and other similar projects that the Bank in
1964 adopted the policy of lending for highways only when detailed engineering
is well advanced.
iv.        The consultants submitted their recommendations for DHB's organi-
zation in 1967, but although important steps have been taken, implementation
has been slow. The formal establishment of a Central Maintenance Department,
which will be a condition of credit effectiveness, la expected to take place
by mid-March 1972. Procurement of maintenance equipment under the First
Highway Project was also slow, but invitations to bid for its supply have
now been issued.
v.         In spite of the initial difficulties and delays, the Firet Highway
Project as a whole is now proceeding reasonably well; DHB has been receptive
to the Association's recommendations, and a basis exists for further
lending for highways.
vi.        The proposed project comprises:  (a) the construction and/or im-
provement of three high priority roads (totalling about 153 km) and (b) con-
sulting services for supervising construction, for studies and detailed
engineering of a main road and the bypasses for four major cities (totalling



- il -
about 540 km), as vell as for a study of maintenance needs. The project
will cost US$28.7 million equivalent, and an IDA credit of US$13.8 million
equivalent vill finance its foreign exchange component.
vii.       Contracts vill be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding, and construction supervision and other expert services will be car-
ried out by consultants. The Ministry of Communications will be responsible
for project execution.
viii.      The internal economic returns (IER) from construction of individual
roads vary between 12% and 22Z: for the construction work as a whole,
the IER is 18%. Benefits to the economy are derived from road user savings
as a result of reductions in vehicle operating costs, and from the difference
in maintenance costs between well constructed roads and the existing poor
quality paved ones.
ix.        The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$13.8 million equiv-
alent.



APPRAISAL OF A SECOND UIGIWAY PROJECT
SYRIA
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01       The Government of Syria has requested the Association to help fi-
nance a project consisting of (a) the construction and/or improvement of
three main roads totalling about 153 km, (b) consulting services for super-
vision of construction, for feasibility studies and, if justified, detailed
engineering for city bypasses and one main road totalling about 540 km, and
(c) consulting services for a maintenance needs atudy. The total cost of
the project is estimated at about US$28.7 million. An IDA credit of US$13.8
million which would finance the foreign costs is proposed; local costs amount-
ing to US$14.9 million equivalent will be financed by the Government.
1.02       The First Highway Project (Credit 46-SYR, 1963, US$8.5 million)
provided for:
(i) improvement of the Damascus-Aleppo-Raqqa road, including
detailed engineering (about 540 km);
(ii) reorganization of the Department of Highways and Bridges
(DHB), including provision of maintenance equipment; and
(iii) a road network survey leading to the final survey and de-
sign of about 520 km of priority roads.
1.03       The feasibility studies and detailed engineering of the three
roads now proposed for construction and/or improvement were financed under
the Firet Highway Project and carried out by the French consultants, Societe
Centrale pour l'Equipement du Territoire (SCET). SCET also carried out be-
tween 1965 and 1969 the survey of the road network and the subsequent detailed
engineering of selected roads. SAUTI (Italy) are supervising the civil en-
gineering works. Between 1965 and 1968, the French consultants Compagnie
d'Ingenieurs et Techniciens d'Etudes (CITE) prepared the detailed engineering
for the Danancus-Aleppo-Raqqa road beîng constructed under the Firet Righ-
way Project, and studied IHB's reorganîzation.
1.04       The Association had appraised the First Highway Project on the
basin of quite inadequate engineering preparation. As a result, the Damascus-
Aleppo-Raqqa road had to be redesigned and further economic studies under-
taken. Construction works were therefore delayed and did not start on the
first section until 1968. Tensions in the Middle East aleo had their effect
upon international bidding for the remaining sections. Although slow in
starting, works are now well under way and will be completed late in 1973
(see Annex A). It WAs this and similar experiences elsewhere in the early
1960's that prompted the Bank in 1964 to adopt the policy of requiring
detailed engineering to be well advanced before making loans for highway works.



1.05       In 1967, CITE made recommendations for reorganizing DHB in stages,
proposing, among other things, the creation of additional Departments for
Major Works, Design, Maintenance and Training. These recommendations are
being implemented gradually, and the proposed Departments, except Mainte-
nance, have been created. DHB is now developing the organizational struc-
ture of the Central Highway Maintenance Department following a new policy
that DHB itself will be responsible only for the trunk routes, while dis-
trict works organizations vill continue to maintain other roads (para. 3.21).
In addition:
(i) a UNDP-financed vocational training program (for which
ILO is the executing agency) is in operation (para. 3.08);
(ii) OPAS experts have been engaged (para. 3.09);
(iii)  the soils and materials laboratory has been modernized and
expanded (para. 3.09); and
(iv) construction of a maintenance complex is underway (para. 3.21).
1.06       Invitations to bid have been issued for the purchase of mainte-
nance equipment for which an allocation of US$1.2 million is available under
the First Highway Project. The creation of the Central Maintenance Depart-
ment is expected to be formalized by mid-March 1972.
1.07       Although the Government must (with the consultants, contractors and
even the Association) bear its share of the blame for the slowness of imple-
mentation of the First Project, most problems have nov been overcome. High-
way administration still needs improvement, hut substantial institutional
progress has been made, and there is now a suitable basis for financing
further highway work in Syria.
1.08       The appraisal of the present project is based on economic and tech-
nical studies prepared by consultants, and on the findings of the appraisal
mission comprising Messrs. R. Paraud (engineer) and N. J. Kanaan (economist)
which visited Syria in May 1971.
II. BACKGROUND
A.    General
2.01       Located on the eastern shore of the Mediterranean, Syria straddles
the historic trade routes between Asia and Europe; these routes lead from
Iran, Iraq and other points east, across Syria's deserts, fertile plains
and coastal mountains down to the Mediterranean seaports. Trans-shipment
points developed in the narrow fertile plain between the mountains and the
desert, and eventually grew into the urban centers of Damascus, Homs, Hama
and Aleppo. Once these centers began to generate their own traffic move-
ments, new routes developed connecting them to each other and to major



- 3 -
cities in Asia Minor to the north and Arabia and Egypt to the south. These
ancient trade routes continue to be the main arteries in Syria's present
transport network, and both the First and the proposed Second Highway Proj-
ects aim at the reconstruction to modern standards of this basic network.
2.02       Much of the trade movement between Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq, Kuwait
and Saudi Arabia must pass through Syria. No detailed information on this
important movement is available, and the Government is conducting traffic
counts of trucks by national origin to ascertain the shares of national and
international traffic. A survey of truck movements at the Syrian-Lebanese
border in 1967 (Table 1) showed that about 75 heavy trucks (average load 12
to 14 tons) crossed the border each day, and that about 30 of these trucks of
various nationalities had a Syrian destination, while 45 trucks were bound
for other countries in the Middle East. Total transit movements now far
exceed the above figures, and the new counts will shed more light on
regional traffic patterns.
2.03       A 1970 census gave Syria about 6.3 million people and a rate of
growth between 1960 and 1970 of 3.3% per annum. Most of the population is
concentrated in the narrow fertile plain between the mountains and the des-
ert, in the coastal plain, and along the Euphrates Valley in the northern
part of the country. Per capita GNP in 1970 was estimated at about US$180.
2.04       Agriculture is the most important sector of the country's economy,
employing about 60% of the labor force and accounting for about two-thirds
of total commodity exports. In the 1960's, the average share of agriculture
fluctuated between 25% and 40% of national income depending on rainfall -
80% of the cultivated area is rain-fed. The principal crops include cereals,
vegetables, fruits, nuts and cotton, with the latter the most important ex-
port product and source of foreign exchange. The Government gives high
priority to expansion of agricultural output, and plans large investments
in irrigation to decrease the dependence on rainfall. This expansion will
have a strong impact on transport demand in the country's major agricultural
regions, particularly in the east and northeast.
2.05       Industry and mining employ about 11% of the labor force and con-
tribute 13%0 of national income. Foodstuffs and textiles account for 40% and
20% respectively of total industrial output. Petroleum production is the
most important extractive activity and a substantial earner of foreign ex-
change; exports of crude oil during 1969 totalled about two million tons.
Oil output is rising and Syria is making large investments in this sector.
B.    The Transport Sector
2.06       The two factors most influencing transport in Syria are:  (a) the
physical setting of the country, and (b) the long and eventful political
history which culminated in the partitioning of Greater Syria after World
War I. The coastal plain and mountains to the west, the narrow fertile
plain in the center, and the desert to the east, have determined the location
of Syria's urban centers and the general orientation of its transport routes.



- 4 -
North-south movement is limited to the central plains and is relatively easy,
but east-west movement is made difficult by the coastal mountains and the
desert. The partitioning of Greater Syria after World War I, and the
superimposing of international boundaries on a transport system that had
developed along a regional basie, made it necessary for Syria to undertake
major construction projects to realign its network to meet its own needs.
Highways
2.07       Details of the highway sector are given in Chapter III.
Railways
2.08       The partitioning of Greater Syria seriously disrupted the railway
system; a section of the north-south line now passes through Lebanon, and
most of the east-west line in the north is in Turkey. The present system
is therefore composed of a number of disconnected lines totalling 1,040 km,
cf which 735 km are standard gauge and 305 km narrow gauge. All the rail-
roads are under the control of the Ministry of Communications. The standard
gauge system extending from Damascus northward is operated by the Syrian
Railways, and the narrow gauge system south of Damascus is operated by the
Directorate General of the Hijaz Railways. Between 1965 and 1969 railway
freight traffic increased from 88 million to 123 million ton-km, and pas-
senger traffic from 70 million to 96 million pass-km (Table 2). In rela-
tive terms, the railways' share of total land freight and passenger traffic
i8 insignificant - about 4% and 2% respectively.
2.09       The Government is constructing a new line in the north to integrate
the system. This 750 km line will connect Latakia, the main port, to Qamich-
liye, the main urban center in the northeast, passing through Aleppo and cros-
sing the best agricultural land of northern Syria. About 250 km of the west-
ern portion have been completed and are in service primarily for moving
construction supplies to the Euphrates (Tabqa) Dam. Before construction
of this line started, a study was carried out to determine the relative ad-
vantages of transporting the cotton and cereal crop (about three million
tons) from the northeast to the port of export at Latakia by road or by
rail. For bulk transport with an average haul over 500 km, rail transport
was shown to have the advantage over road transport, and the decision was
therefore taken in favor of a railroad which is now being built with Soviet
financial and technical assistance.
Ports
2.10       After the partitioning of Greater Syria, the main ports of the re-
gion - Haifa, Beirut, Tripoli and Iskenderun - were beyond Syria's new
borders, and the country had to develop two new national ports, Latakia and
Tartous, and reorient traffic to pass through them. General cargo movements
increased from 1.6 million tons in 1965 to 4.6 million tons in 1969 (Table 3);
passenger movements are negligible. The specialized petroleum port of Banias
handles about 30 million tons annually.



-5-
2.11       Latakia and Tartous serve mainly the domestic market, but an at-
tempt is being made to capture more regional trade by improving their road
connections with the national system, and especially the links to Iraq and
Jordan. However, Beirut continues to play a dominant role in handling goods
for other Middle Eastern countries, with Tripoli following. About 125,000
tons of cargo went to Syria from Beirut in 1967, and about 238,000 tons to
other Middle Eastern countries through Syria.
Air Transport
2.12       Air transport operations in Syria are centered on the new (1969)
airport at Damascus. The only international airport in the country, it serves
as an intermediate stop between Europe, Asia and Africa, it can accommodate
the largest jets in service. Traffic has, however, been low, increasing
only from 145,000 passengers in 1965 to 248,000 in 1969; cargo has remained
stable at about 1,500 tons per year (Table 3).
2.13       The national airline provides limited international service to
Arab, European and some Asian cities, using two Caravelles and three DC-6
planes. Two more Caravelles are on order. The Syrian Arab Airlines national
network includes service to Aleppo, Deir ez Zor, Qamishliye and Latakia,
utilizing DC-4 and DC-3 planes. Schedules are not very reliable and move-
ments are light. Syrian Arab Airlines has broken even on its operations,
but only because international operations have subsidized domestic ones.
Pipelines
2.14       Within the last fifteen years, oil has been discovered and exploit-
ed in the northeastern part of the country. A 650 km pipeline vas built with
Italian assistance to connect the oil fields to the refinery at Homs and to
the port of Tartous. Recent increases in oil production and in refining capac-
ity at Homs, and prospects of lncreased export of oil, have prompted the Gov-
ernment to plan expansion of the capacity of the pipeline and the port facil-
ities at Tartous; these are now under way.
2.15       Two international pipelines cross Syria - one serving the Iraq Pe-
troleum Company and the other the Arabian American Oil Company - which trans-
port about 40 and about 15 million tons of crude oil a year respectively.
Disputes between the producing companies and the various governments con-
cerned have occasionally interrupted the flow of oil.
C.    Transport Policy and Coordination
2.16       Three Ministries are concerned with transport:  the Ministry of
Communications controls road and rail transport, the Ministry of Defense is
in charge of civil aviation, and the Ministry of Economy of the ports. A
study is underway to turn over responsibility for ports to the Ministry of
Communications. At present, the Directorate of Transport Planning in the
Ministry of Planning coordinates both sectoral and intersectoral planning,
but the proposed reorganization of the Ministry of Communications included
the creation of a high-level committee that will be responsible for sectoral
planning.



-6-
2.17       The Government's transport policy aims at improving road and rail
transport so that each mode can play its particular role in serving the
transport demands of the country. For highways, the policy is to modern-
ize the primary network composed largely of roads built over 30 years ago;
the First and proposed Second Highway Projecta will go a long way in ac-
complishing this. Railroad policies are: (a) to link the fertile areas
of the north and northeastern areas, where most of the country's export
products (cotton and wheat) are grown, with Latakia, the port of export;
and (b) to integrate the disconnected network (para. 2.08).
2.18       There is no administrative allocation of traffic between modes,
and users are free to select the mode which best suits their requirements.
Road transport is however subject to a degree of regulation, for instance
in route limitation, but the extent to which such regulation is either ef-
fectively enforceable or is economically damaging has not been established.
Further Bank operations in highways will require an analysis of the effect
of these regulations.
2.19       There are two truck tariff rates in the country - one for shipments
by the private sector and another for the public sector. A recent Government
study shows that rates paid by the private enterprise shippers cover operat-
ing costs and provide a fair return to the truckers. However, the rates
paid by the public enterprise shippers - the largest truck users since the
adoption of nationalization policies in Syria - are too low for most hauls
ta yield a reasonable profit. Requests to increase the rates to the public
sector shippers are now under consideration by the Covernment.  Rail tariffs
appear adequate for the present low level of operation, but a detailed re-
examination will be needed when the northern line is completed and the rail-
road's share of movements in the northern part of the country has increased.
The feasibility study included in this project (para. 5.13) will include an
analysis by consultants of possible road-rail competition in northern Syria.
2.20       Under the First Highway Project, the Government agreed to ensure
that the types and load capacities of imported trucks would be technically
suitable to the design standards of the country's highways, to permit the
gradual import of trucks to satisfy growing demand, and to enforce traffic
laws that control overloading. Although the fleet has increased (Table 4),
the problem of overloading continues and is aggravated by transit of heavy
foreign-owned trucks (Table 1). During negotiations, assurances were ob-
tained from the Government that vehicle weights and dimensions will be
satisfactorily controlled. A new traffic law revising the controls and fines
for overloading of trucks is being drafted in consultation with the Associa-
tion, and is expected to be put into effect by mid-1972.
2.21       Vehicle importation is restricted by the Government; imports are
based on demand studies made periodically by the Ministry of Communications.
Competition in the trucking industry is keen, especially in international
freight movements, as the Syrians must compete with truckers from Lebanon,
Jordan, Iraq, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. The economic consequences to Syria
of having part of its cargo movement handled by foreign truckers as a result
of limited vehicle import have not been measured.



-7-
2.22       In order to permit the development of a rational policy for inter-
national trucking, and to provide a basis for evaluating transit agreements
with neighboring countries, a study is needed of national origin, size and
average load of trucks, so as to determine the costs imposed by foreign
trucks on Syrlen roads. During negotiations the Government agreed that it
will undert,ke such a study and discuse its results with the Association.
The consul1:cnts to be employed for the study of future maintenance needs
(para. 4.07) -:nv assist in carrying out the above-mentioned study.
III. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A.    The Righway Network and Its Traffic
3.01       Syria's highway network comprises about 8,100 km of primary (inter-
national and national) roads, 1,600 km of secondary (provincial) roads and
1,800 km of tertiary (feeder and rural) roads; about 60% of the total road
network is bituminous paved. Table 5 shows the breakdown by type of surface.
Roads were inventoried by the consultants SCET in 1966/67.
3.02       The main elements of the system are the roads from the Jordanian
Border to Damascus (to be improved under the present project), from Damascus
ta Aleppo and Raqqa (being improved under the First Highway Project) and to
Deir ez Zor on the bank of the Euphrates river. However, the road used most
bath by local and international traffic is the Damascus-Lebanese border road,
to be reconstructed and improved under the present project. Some additions
to the present network are needed for further development of the country,
in particular, (a) the Palmyra-Deir ez Zor road (the feasibility study and
detailed engineering were prepared under the First Highway Project) for the
construction of which financing is yet to be arranged; and (b) the Aleppo-
Manbij-Tall Tamir-Tall Kojak road which is to be studied under the present
project.
3.03       In 1969, there were about 48,000 vehicles in Syria of which about
61% were cars, 34% trucks, 4% buses, and 1% tractor-trailers (Table 4). The
average annual growth rate of vehicles between 1965 and 1969 was about 3%,
with an uneven pattern of yearly growth due to Government's stop and start
importation policy (para. 2.21). Gasoline consumption grew at a rate of
about 9% between 1960 and 1969 (Table 6). Relatively few vehicles use
diesel fuel.
3.04       Most traffic is on the north-south road connecting the urban cen-
ters in the interior plain, namely Deraa-Damascus-Homs-Hama-Aleppo road,
the Aleppo-Raqqa-Deir ez Zor road, the coastal highway from Tartous to La-
takia, and the three transversal roads: Damascus-Lebanese border, Homs-
Tartous and Aleppo-Latakia. Accurate data on road traffic do not exist,
but a calculation based on estimated fleet utilization and average length
of haul shows freight traffic of three billion ton-km and passenger transport
approaching four billion pass-km in 1969.



-8-
B.    Highway Administration
3.05       The Ministry of Communications is responsible, through its Director-
ate of Highways and Bridges (DHB), for the design, construction and mainte-
nance of primary and secondary highways. Except for major construction works
which are carried out directly by DHB, operations are handled by the 13 dis-
trict offices. Secondary roads are also built by the semi-autonomous agen-
cies in connection with major irrigation and power projects, and then trans-
ferred to DHB for maintenance. The district offices also construct and main-
tain feeder and rural roads.
3.06       Under the First Highway Project, CITE studied and made recommenda-
tions on DHB's organization, with special emphasis on maintenance. The con-
sultants' recommendations are being gradually implemented, but budgetary
constraints (reflecting heavy military expenditures and concentration on
other sectors such as mining and agriculture) have prevented DHB from re-
cruiting qualified personnel and achieving full reorganization. With prevail-
ing salary scales, DHB is unable to compete with private industry or with the
attraction of jobs abroad, and a Government committee is studying and will
make recommendations on this problem. The present organization of the Ministry
of Communications and of DHB is shown in the Chart. A new organizational
set-up including, among other items, a Central Highway Maintenance Department,
is expected to become effective by mid-March 1972.
3.07       CITE also recommended and initiated training programs for techni-
cians, supervisors, mechanices, operators, etc.; these programs are progress-
ing satisfactorily under DHB and ILO supervision. Scholarships are also
provided for training engineers abroad, but low salaries induce few trainees
to remain in DHB's service any longer than legally bound. The Government has
confirmed that salary scales for lower level personnel will also be studied
by the committee (para. 3.06).
3.08       The Plan of Operation of the UNDP-financed four-year vocational
training program, for which ILO is executing agency, was signed in June 1969.
The cost of this program is about US$600,000. It includes comprehensive
vocational training for engineers, technicians and skilled workers for road
and bridge construction, and fellowships abroad. Administrative problems
and difficulty in finding suitable experts delayed the ILO program one year,
but five of the six experts budgeted are now in Syria.
3.09       UNDP has financed laboratory equipment for DHB's central soils and
materials laboratory, and has also financed two OPAS experts in DHB - one
for road design and construction, and the other for administration and or-
ganization. One of the OPAS experts has now completed his tour of duty.
C.    Highway Financing and Planning
3.10       Revenues from road users increased by 60% between 1966 and 1969,
an average annual increase of about 19% (Table 7). These revenues come from
import duties on vehicles and spare parts, taxes on gasoline and diesel oil,
and vehicle registration fees; they are not earmarked for highway purposes,
but go into general Government revenues. Revenues from road users more



- 9 -
than covered actual expenditures on administration, maintenance, improve-
ment and construction of highways; in 1969, for instance, these revenues
were about twice total road expenditures (Tables 7 and 8). Although rev-
enues fluctuate a great deal from year to year reflecting variations in the
number of imported vehicles (one of the main revenue sources), the average
revenues over 1966-69 were about 40% above average total road expenditures
in the same period. The Government imposes on road users higher taxes than
needed to finance expenditures in the highway sector; this high taxation is
aimed mainly at improving the balance of payments, redistributing income,
and controlling private consumption.
3.11       Most highway works are financed through budgetary allocations.
A breakdown of total expenditures for highways from 1965 and 1969 is given
in Table 8. It shows a moderate but steady increase of yearly highway ex-
penditures, with a jump in 1969 when construction of two major roads was
started (Homs to the phosphate mines close to Palmyra, and Damascus to the
Iraqi border).
3.12       The Third Five-Year Plan (1971-75) provides SL215.0 million
(US$56.3 million equivalent) for improving and constructing roads, and
SL 18.0 million (US$4.7 million equivalent) for studies, training, purchase
of maintenance and laboratory equipment, and other miscellaneous expendi-
tures. The Plan is based on the recommendations on "Development of the
Highway System" made by SCET under the First Highway Project; it provides
both for completing works on the First Highway Project and for expenditures
on the proposed Second Highway Project up to 1975. Although the thrust of
the Plan is satisfactory, further engineering preparation is needed.
3.13       Collection of data for highway planning is limited to traffic
counts on the main routes; other important data (such as axle loads and
numbers of foreign vehicles in transit) are not systematically collected.
During negotiations the Government agreed that appropriate procedures will
be established for collecting data needed for highway planning.
D.    Highway Engineering
3.14       Because of staff limitations, DHB carries out design work only on a
limited scale. Major projects are designed by local or foreign consultants.
Two local consulting firms are active in the highway field; no restrictions
are placed on foreign consultants in Syria.
3.15       Geometric design standards prepared by the consultants CITE have
been accepted by DHB, and the decree approving them is expected to be issued
in 1972. The design standards proposed for the project highways (Table 9)
are similar to those proposed by CITE and are acceptable.



- 10 -
E.    Highnay Construction
3.16       Major highway construction is normally carried out under unit price
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding. There are only three
local contracting firms (two private and one public) capable of carrying out
major highway works (the public firm is now carrying out major railway con-
struction works, and will probably seek to prequalify for works under the
proposed project); there are also about six medium-sized Syrian contractors
who could undertake sub-contracting, of earthworks for instance, and about
50 minor contractors specializing mainly in construction of drainage struc-
tures. All contractors are registered by the Ministry of Finance and also
by the particular Ministry for which they work. Because of the 1967 crisis,
few foreign firms showed interest in bidding under the First Highway Project,
and since few local firms were qualified at that time to bid for the works,
getting suitable contractors caused delays. However, two of the four contracts
have been awarded to foreign firms, and, barring a resurgence of the Middle-
East crisis, this problem is not expected to be encountered under the pro-
posed project. The foreign contractors already working are interested in
bidding for further works.
3.17       Because of shortage of staff, supervision of construction for IDA-
financed works has been and will continue to be carried out by consultants;
wholly Government-financed construction works are however normally supervised
by DHB staff.
3.18       Experience under the First Highway Project has shown that the
period between award of a contract and approval by all Government authori-
ties concerned is about six months, which delays projeet execution. It will
obviously take some time to reform the cumbersome administrative structure,
and it is therefore unlikely that the Government will be able to reduce
substantially the approval period for the proposed project.
F.    Highway Maintenance
3.19       All routine highway maintenance is now carried out by force ac-
count through the 13 district offices (para. 3.05 and Chart); repaving,
resealing and aggregate supply are usually by contract. As indicated
below, after the establishment of the Central Maintenance Department,
the district offices' executive responsibilities in maintenance will be
limited to secondary and tertiary roads (para. 3.21).
3.20       Maintenance expenditures for the primary and secondary system al-
most doubled from 1965 to 1969 (Table 8). The primary road system is fairly
well maintained, but maintenance operations are generally inefficient because
(a) maintenance equipment is very old and of many different makes, and (b)
funds to replace worn-out units are limited. The present project provides
for a study of future maintenance needs in equipment, workshops, spare parts,
etc. (para. 4.07).



- il -
3.21       The Central Maintenance Department is expected to be created by
mid-March 1972, but construction of the main maintenance complex near
Damascus is already underway. It is Government policy to decentralize many
of its responsibilities (including DHB's present responsibility for second-
ary and tertiary roads) by turning them over fully to provincial govern-
ments. An organizational structure for the Central Maintenance Department
to meet the needs of this policy, and a corresponding maintenance program
have been developed by DHB with the advice and assistance of OPAS and ILO
experts. The Department will be responsible for trunk roads - essentially
those roads either improved under the First Highway Project or to be im-
proved under the proposed project. This division of responsibility will
simplify DHB's operations, and also reduce the problem of diversion of DHB's
equipment by district governments. The formal establishment of this Central
Maintenance Department is a condition of credit effectiveness. During nego-
tiations, the maintenance program was discussed and assurances obtained from
the Government that it will provide the necessary funds and facilities to
maintain the primary network properly.
3.22       Under the First Highway Project, US$1.2 million was provided for
maintenance equipment, and invitations to bid for the purchase of this
equipment have been issued. This equipment will be the responsibility of
the Central Maintenance Department. During negotiations the maintenance
program was discussed, and the Government gave assurances that it will pro-
vide the necessary funds and facilities to maintain the primary network
properly.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.    General
4.01       The project consists of:
1.   Highways to be improved and/or constructed:
(i)  the improvement or construction of sections of the
Damascus-Lebanese border highway, about 40 km;
(ii)  the improvement of the Damascus-Jordanian border
highway (Kisswe-Jordanian border section), about 85
km; and
(iii)  the construction of 28 km of the Homs-Tartous highway
(Tall Kalakh detour).
2.   Consulting services for:
(i) supervision of the above;



- 12 -
(ii) feasibility studies and, if justified on the basis of
these studies, detailed engineering for:
(a)  bypasses for the cities of Homs, Hama, Aleppo
and Deraa (about 70 km); and
(b) the Aleppo-Manbij-Tall Tamir-Tall Kojak Highway
(about 470 km); and
(iii) a study of maintenance needs.
4.02       The project roads have been selected by the Government in agree-
ment with the Association as having high priority within the national high-
way system.  These works will constitute about 35% of the Government's high-
way construction and improvement program for the 1971-75 period.
B.    Highways to be Improved and Constructed
4.03       The design standards for project roads are shown in Table 9.  Eco-
nomic aspects of project roads are described in Chapter V. A description of
physical characteristics follows:
(i) Damascus-Lebanese Border - 40 km
The first section (about 7 km) of the existing road
within the urban limits of the city of Damascus, is located
along a narrow corridor bounded by a dense urban area on one
side and the Barada river and the Damascus-Beirut railway on
the other, leaving no room for widening or improving the
road except at exorbitant cost. In addition, there is a
substantial amount of local traffic, the horizontal and ver-
tical alignments are deficient, and the road crosses the rail-
way line three times. A new 21.3 km alignment through the
hills to the north of Damascus avoids this difficult section,
but the remaining 18.7 km follows the present alignment; the
existing road will however continue to take some traffic, and
for 5 km beyond its junction with the new alignment, the new
road will have four lanes.
(ii) Damascus (Kisswe)-Jordanian Border - 85 km
The road is adequate to Kisswe, 17 km south of Damascus,but
from there to near Deraa (80 km) this two-lane road was
developed from a track and now needs to be improved and paved.
The topography is flat or rolling, and horizontal and verti-
cal alignments are generally satisfactory; realignments
totalling about 5 km, and pavement-widening through villages
are proposed.



- 13 -
(iii)  Homs-Tartous (Tal1 Kalakh detour) - 28 km
A 28 km two-lane realignment, located entirely in Syrian ter-
ritory, is proposed, replacing an equal length of the present
road which is in poor condition and of which a 5 km section
goes through Lebanese territory. Two sections on steep grades
totalling about 4 km will be provided with climbing lanes
for heavy truck traffic.
C.    Consulting Services
Supervision of Construction
4.04       Consultants acceptable to, and under terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Association will be engaged to help prequalify contractors, analyze
bids and supervise project highway works. The Government is now preparing a
list of firts which might be suitable for this work.
Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
4.05       It is proposed to study the bypasses of the congested cities of
Homs, Hama, Aleppo and Deraa; the first three cities are along the Danascus-
Aleppo-Raqqa road being improved under the First Highway Project. Deraa is
on the Damascus-Jordanian border road which is to be improved under the pro-
posed project.
4.06       The Aleppo-Manbij-Tall Tamir-Tall Kojak road proposed for feasibil-
ity study runs along the northern part of the country, approximately paral-
leling the Turkish border. This road would open up a region not nov served
by any land transport means.
Study of Maintenance Needs
4.07       CITE's maintenance study was completed in 1967, but the highway
maintenance reorganization is expected to be effective only by mid-March
1972. The recent administrative decentralization (para. 3.21) and the time
elapsed make it necessary to review and update the consultants' recommenda-
tions, and to determine future maintenance needs with more precision (para.
3.20). The project makes provision for consultants to assist the Govern-
ment in this task.
D.    Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement
4.08       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$28.7 million equiv-
alent, including contingency allowances. Table 10 shows the breakdown of
construction cost for each highway by major items (earthworks, drainage,
etc). A summary of the project costs (based on 1970 cost estimates) and the
foreign exchange component to be financed by the credit follows:



- 14 -
SL Millions      US$ Million Equivalent Foreign
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Exchange
1. Highways to be
constructed
and/or lmproved          30.11  32.62  62.73   7.88   8.54  16.42         52
2. Consulting Services
for:
i) supervising
construction          0.65   2.61   3.26   0.17   0.69   0.86         80
ii) feasibility
studies and
detailed engi-
neering                1.16   4.65   5.81   0.30   1.22   1.52        80
iii) maintenance study    0.16   0.64   0.80   0.04   0.16   0.20           80
Sub-total         1.97   7.90   9.87   0.51   2.07   2.58
3. Contingencies
(on Item 1)
Physical, about 10%       3.01   3.26   6.27   0.78   0.86   1.64         52
Escalation, about 20%   6.02   6.52  12.54   1.56   1.72   3.28           52
Uncertainty, about 7%   2.11   2.28   4.39   0.54   0.61   1.15           52
Sub-total        11.14  12.06  23.20   2.88   3.19   6.07
TOTALS           43.22  52.58  95.80  11.27  13.80  25.07
4. Right-of-way             13.90    -    13.90   3.63    -        3.63       0
GRAND TOTALS    57.12  52.58 109.70  14.90  13.80  28.70          54
4.09      Estimated costs are based on SCET's completed detailed engineering.
The roade have been designed for two lanes, which is adequate for present and
foreseeable future traffic; the exceptions are one difficult section of about
10 km of the Damascus-Lebanese border highway, where it is economic to build
earthworks and drainage for four lanes now, although only two will be paved;
and 5 km on the same road where the traffic la heaviest. The cost estimate
of the 10 km of additional earthworks has been prepared by DHB on the basis
of quantities derived from SCET's designs; detailed engineering for this
section is being completed by DHB. Cost estimates reflect the effect of
recent currency parity changes.



- 15 -
4.10      A physical contingency allowance of about 10% of the construction
cost has been included to cover possible quantity increases. The 20% esca-
lation contingency to cover price increases has been estimated on the basis
of an average increase of about 5% per annum from preparation of the esti-
mates (1970) to completion of construction. A further 7% contingency allow-
ance is provided because of the political uncertainty in the Middle East
which may induce contractors to hedge against the risks involved. If bid-
ding shows that such problems have not materialized, the corresponding con-
tingency would be cancelled.
4.11      The consultants SCET have estimated the foreign exchange component
of cost at 52%, on the basis of an analysis of the unit prices for each type
of work; although it is possible that local firms could get one contract
(they are busy now on other projects), the assumption is made that construc-
tion will be carried out by foreign contractors which sub-contract a substan-
tial part of the earthworks and drainage structures to local firms. The
estimate is reasonable. The foreign cost of supervision of construction
and other consulting services is estimated at 80% based on experience with
similar services in Syria.
4.12      The proposed roads will cross some agricultural areas, and no dif-
ficulties or delays are foreseen under the existing laws in acquiring the
necessary private land. The credit will not finance right-of-way costs.
4.13      Local costs will be met by the Government from whom assurances
were obtained during credit negotiations that appropriate budgetary alloca-
tions will be made.  There have been no problems under the previous project
with regard to provision of local funds.
4.14      Disbursements from the credit account will be on the basis of 52%
of the cost of construction (the estimated foreign exchange component) and
the actual foreign exchange cost of consulting services. The schedule of
estimated disbursements is given in Annex B.
4.15      Any surplus remaining in the credit account on completion of the
project should be cancelled.
E.   Execution
4.16      Execution of project works will be the responsibility of the Min-
istry of Communications through its Directorate of Highways and Bridges.
Construction will be by unit price contracts awarded after international
competitive bidding following normal Bank procedures.
4.17      One contract will be awarded for works on each of the three proj-
ect roads. The sîze of any of these three contracts should attract foreign
bidders or the larger local firms, and smaller and more specialized local
firms are expected to participate extensively as subcontractors.  The Gov-
ernment will start prequalifying contractors during 1972. Work is expected
to start towards the end of 1973 and to be completed by late 1977.



- 16 -
4.18       Consultants to supervise construction, to study maintenance needs
and to prepare feasibility studies and detailed engineering for the city
bypasses and the Aleppo-Tall Kojak road should be acceptable to, and engaged
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. This was dis-
cussed and agreed during negotiations.
4.19       The labor force in Syria comprises about one-quarter of the popu-
lation, of which about 5% i8 unemployed. In order to create opportunities
for unskilled workers, the Government carries out a permanent program of
minor public works (such as small irrigation schemes, feeder roads, schools,
etc.) in the districts. There does not appear to be an underemployment
problem which merits specific attention in respect of the proposed project,
and for this reason the Syrian authorîties have prepared the project for
conventional construiction methods.
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.    General
5.01       The total effect of the First and the Second Highway Projects
will go a long way toward modernizing the primary network of Syria to meet
existing and forecast traffic demands. The roads included in the proposed
project were selected from among hîgh priority roads identified in 1967 by
the French consultants, SCET. For detailed description of these roads, see
paras. 4.03 and 5.06 through 5.11.
B.    Benefits from the Project
5.02       About 80% of the quantifiable benefits attributable to the proj-
ect roads are road user savings from lower vehicle operating costs on re-
constructed roads. Reductions in operating costs, calculated by the consul-
tants during the feasibility study, are: for cars, about 10%, for buses,
about 12%, for trucks under 7 tons, 10%, and for trucks over 7 tons, 12%
(Table 11W. These calculations are on the conservative side.  Because of
the multi-narional composition of the vehicles in circulation in Syria,
benefits from road improvements will not accrue only to Syria, but also
to other countries in the region. However, Syria will benefit most, since
most of the vehicles on the project roads are Syrian ones handling domestic
cargo. In movements that originate and/or terminate in Syria - although
they mav be carriled by non-Syrian trucks - improvements in the system will
be reflected in decreased cariffs due to the stiff competition between
truckers (para. 2.21). In the case of purely transit movements, the road
improvements will lead to better conditions for intra-regional trade move-
ments, particularly since the regional network outside Syria is being im-
proved, and since reciprocal agreements on transit are in force.
5.03       Additional benefits (about 15%) were derived from the differences
in maintenance costs between well constructed paved roads and existing poor
quality ones. Unquantified but important benefits attributed to the project



- 17 -
are time savings for passengers on business and other trips, încreased com-
fort to the users of the roads, as well as faster turnover of shippers'
capital. The Tall Kalakh detour will provide a road connection entirely
within Syrian territory to the increasingly important port of Tartous.
5.04       Military traffic - estimated at about 15% of total traffic on the
Damascus-Lebanese border and Damascus-Jordanian border roads - was excluded
from the economic analysis.  However, the design standards of the proposed
roads are not affected.
5.05       For the roads included in this project, the estimated net benefits,
iiscounted over a 20-year economic life of the roads, give internal economic
returns varying between 12% and 22%, and for the whole project the IER is
18%. A sensitivity analysis (Table 12) indicates that reasonable variations
in construction costs and in traffic growth, the two major inputs in the
analysis, have little effect on the IER. Thus it is very unlikely that the
IER would fall below 10% on the Damascus-Lebanese border and Damascus-Jordanian
border roads: it could conceivably fall slightly below 10% on the Tall Kalakh
detour, but only if construction costs increase by 20% above the estimate,
and if the anticipated traffic growth falls some 10% below the expected
growth, which is most unlikely.
C.    The Project Roads
(M) Roads Proposed for Construction and/or Improvement
Damascus-Lebanese Border Road
5.06       This 40 km road is the Syrian section of the Beirut-Damascus high-
way: the Lebanese section has been studied by consultants following terms
of reference agreed with the Bank. The importance of this road to Syria
is a result of the growth of agricultural and industrial activity in Damascus
and its vicinity, and of the important inter-regional trade between Beirut,
the major port in the Middle East, and Syria, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait and Saudi
Arabia (Table 1).
5.07       In 1970 ADT was about 9,000 vehicles on the section close to Damas-
cus, decreasing to about 3,000 vehicles near the Lebanese border. The pres-
ent two-lane road is inadequate to handle this heavy traffie. Traffic is ex-
pected to grow at an average rate of 13% per year for the first ten years,
decreasing to 7% in the second ten years, with the largest growth occurring
in the passenger vehicle category of commuters who live in outlying dormitory
areas and commute to Damascus. 1/ Traffic on the first section of the road
is projected at 16,000 ADT in 1980 (Table 13), by which time two additlonal
1/    Traffie growth estimates were derived from comparisons of traffic
counts carried out in 1968 when the feasibility studies were made, and
from 1970 traffic counts.



- 18 -
lanes will be needed; this future cost was allowed for in the economic eval-
uation. The IER based on quantifiable benefits is 22% over the 20-year eco-
nomic life of the road.
Damascus (Kisswe)-Jordanian Border Road
5.08      This road connects Damascus to the important agricultural region
of the Houran, and is a section of the inter-regional link between Saudi
Arabia and Jordan and Lebanon (via the Beirut-Damascus road). Damascus,
Deraa, and Amman in Jordan fall within the zone of influence of the road.
5.09      The present condition of this road is inadequate for present heavy
traffic; 1970 ADT was about 2,000 vehicles, of which 51% were passenger cars
and the rest trucks and buses. Traffic is expected to grow at an annual rate
of 8% during the first ten years, decreasing to about 5% per year in the sec-
ond ten years (Table 13). Quantifiable benefits are expected to yield a
15% rate of return over the 20-year economic life of the road. This road
will also help promote tourist activity centered on the Roman ruins at
Bosra.
Homs-Tartous Road (Tall Kalakh detour)
5.10      A 28 km realignment located entirely in Syrian territory is pro-
posed to replace an equal portion of the present road between Homs and Tar-
tous which is in poor condition. All the traffic which uses this route has
to check through two Lebanese border stations, since 5 km of the present
route lie within Lebanese territory. This road is important since it con-
nects the important agricultural and industrial center of Homs and the port
of Tartous.
5.11      In 1970 AIT was about 2,000, of which 50% were passenger cars and
the rest trucks and buses. The average annual traffic growth is expected to
be about 9% during the firet ten years, decreasing to about 8% during the
following ten years (Table 13). In addition, the newly discovered phosphate
deposits in the Palmyra area which are beginning to be exploited will generate
truck traffic on this road. However, if the Government's expectations mate-
rialize that by 1978 two million tons of phosphate will be exported through
the port of Tartous, a decision may be made to transport this large volume
by railroad, and to build a spur from the mines to connect with the line
at Homs. The possible effect of this was taken into consideration in the
economic evaluation. The quantifiable benefits are expected to yield a
rate of return of 12% over the 20-year economic life of the road. Unquan-
tified benefits result from the decrease in travel time on this road for
both passenger and cargo movement.
(ii) Roads Proposed for Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
Bypasses for Homs, Hama, Aleppo and Deraa
5.12      Three of the four bypasses included in this study serve the cities
of Homs, Hama and Aleppo, the major urban centers traversed by the Damascus-
Aleppo-Raqqa road (financed under the First Highway Project). The fourth is



- 19 -
for the city of Deraa located on one of the roads included in the proposed
project. The total length of these bypasses is estimated at 70 km; they
are expected to have favorable rates of return due to the high volumes of
through traffic on these routes.
Aleppo-Manbij-Tall Tamir-Tall Kojak
5.13       This new route will be a basic factor in the development of rich
agricultural areas in northern and northeastern Syria to which the Government
has assigned high priority for agricultural development. The extent of
the direct influence area of this road is estimated at 60,000 km2 - about
one-third of the national territory - and its population is close to 2.0 mil-
lion - also about one-third of Syria's population. In 1969 this area produced
about 1.7 million tons of cereal (two-thirds of national production), about
600,000 tons of cotton and other industrial crops (about one-third of
national production) and about 500,000 tons each of vegetables and fruits.
Sheep, goat and poultry production are also important. The proposed road
will also provide a direct connection between Hassake, the major center in
the Jezireh area, Aleppo, the major industrial and service center in northern
Syria, and from there to Latakia, the major port of export; this new connec-
tion will be 140 km shorter than the present route through Deir ez Zor.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01       During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government
on the following principal points:
(a) the control of vehicle weights and dimensions (para. 2.20);
(b)  the study of foreign truck traffic (para. 2.22);
(c)  the collection of data for highway planning (para. 3.13); and
(d)  the proper maintenance of the primary network (para. 3.22).
6.02       The formal establishment of the Central Maintenance Department
will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (para. 3.21).
6.03       With the agreements and conditions indicated above, the proposed
project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$13.8 million
equivalent.






TABLE 1
SYRIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Transport of Regional Transit Cargo on Syrian Highways - 1967
(Counting Station Syrian-Lebanese Border)
Origin of Truck                Destination       Trucks       Tons
Syria                             Syria             700       7,700
Region         4,200      669500
Iraq                              Syria             -           -
Region         4,900      58,500
Saudi Arabia                      Syria             -           -
Region         3,900      66,500
Jordan                             Syria          2,1400     27,300
Region         3,400      44.,100
Kuwait                            Syria           1,600      23,800
Region           230       2,600
Lebanon                           Syria           5,300      66,500
Region           -            -
Sub-Total           Syria          10,000     125,300
Region        16,630     238,200
Total                             26,630      363,500
AADT                Syria              30
Region            45
Total                                  75
Average truck load                      Syria  12.5 tons
Region 14.3 tons
Source: Directorate of Highways and Bridges, Ministry of Coemmuications
Appraisal Mission, May 1971.
July 1971



TABI&2
SYRIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Freight Transport by Mode - 1965-69
(million ton-km)
1965      1966      1967       1968      1969
Road                2,400      2,500     2,700      2,700     3,000
Rail                    88        85        95        123       123
PassenRer Transport by Mode   1965-62
(million pass-km)
Road               3,500       3.,400    3,600      3,700     4,000
Rail                   70         68         78        85        96
Source: Roads Data: Directorate of Highways and Bridges,
Ministry of Commaunications, May 1971.
Railroad Data: Statistical Abstracts, 1966 and 1969.
July 1971



TABLE 3
SYRIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Ports and Air Movements J2965   1969
Ports (except Banias)                  Banias (petrol ep,ort)
(million tons)
Year         Passengers        Cargo tonsn
(el,lion tons)
1965            2,700           1.6                             26.2
1966            3,000           1.9                             24.5
1967            2,900           1.7                             20.6
1968            2,800           2.8                             29.5
1969            3,600           4.6                             30.3
Air TransPort
Year         Passengers        Cargo
ttons)
1965          145,000          1,600
1966          192,000          1,600
1967          1h8,000          1,200
1968          212,000          1,200
1969          248,000          1,500
Source: Port Data: Statistical Abstracts, 1966 and 1969.
Air Transport Data:  Civil Aviation Department, 1970.
July 1971



TABLE 4
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJCCT
Vehicle Registration  1965 - 1969
Year       Cars        Buses      Trucks      Tractor-Trailexe     Total
1965      27,237       1,609      12,763            244            41,853
1966      26,497       1,613      13,308            229            41,647
1967      28,564       1,406      14,644            160            44,774
1968      28,466       1,557      13,866            384            44,273
1969     29,379        1,720      16,012            696            47,807
Source:  Directorate of Highways and Bridges, Ministry of Comaunications,
May 1971.
July 1971



TABLE 5
SflIA
SECOND HIGHWÂY PtOJECT
Highway Network 1966-69
Bituminous
Year            Paved             Gravel           Barth           Total
-(km)                (km)             ()             (km)
1966            5,995             1,296            1,915           9,206
1967            6,350             1,370            1,985           9,705
1968            6,600             1,200            2,700          10,500
1969            6,930             1,300            3,270          11,500
Source: Directorate of Highwa:ts and Bridges, Ninistry of Communications,
May 1971.
July 1971



TABLE 6
STRIA
SECOND HMNHAY PROJECT
Gasoline Consuuption   1960 - 69
(ii.lions of liter.)
_ar                              Gamoline
1960                                87
1961                                83
1962                                88
1963                               111
1964                               154
1965                               175
1966                               166
1967                               167
1968                               168
1969                               182
Average Annua  Increase 1960-69   8.5%
Source: Directorate of Highways and Bridgez. Ministry of Communications.
May 1971.
July 1971



TABLE 7
SYRIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimatesof Revenues from Road Usera 1966-69
(SL millions)
1966          1967            1968           1969
Gasoline tax               37.9           35.0           36.3           39.5
Import duty on
vehicles                   13.9          47.4             2.2           67.3
Import duty on spare parts 20.5           24.3           25.4           28.9
Import duty on tires        2.5            2.7            3.0            3.3
Registration fees          23.0           20.0           22.0           26.0
Totals                     97.8         129.4            88.9          165.0
Average Annual Revenue for 1966-69 - SL120.3 million
Source:  Directorate of Highways and Bridges, Ministry of Coimwiications.
Appraisal Mission, May 1971.
July 1971



TABLE 8
SYRIA
SECOND HIC}HWAY PROJECT
Hioway Espenditures 1965-69
(SL millions)
1965     1966     1967      1968     1969
Adlministration           4.6      6.4      8.6       7.6      9.6
Maintenance               8.7     10.5     11.5      14.3     16.0
Construction                                                      1/
and Improvement           3.4      8.5     11.3      15.4     48.4
Construction of
Feeder Roads               -       -        9.9       9.9     11.8
Totals                   16.7     25.4     41.3      47.2     85.8
Average Annual Highway Expenditure for 1965-69 - SL 49.9 million.
2  Includes expenditures for constructing the Homs-phosphate mines
and Damascus-Iraqi border roads which vere started in 1969.
Source: Directorate of Highways and Bridges, Ministry of Comnmunications,
May 1971.
February 1972



TABLE 9
SYRIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
DesigRn Standards for Project Highways
Damascus
Damascus- (Kisswe)    Homs-Tartous
Lebanesç   Jordanian   (Tal  Kalekh
Rail      Border 1-  Border      Dotour )_ _
1. Design Speed                       km/h              80        100           80
2.  Width of Roadway                   m   11.50 to 13.25      13.50        13.50
3.  Width of Surfacing                 m              7.40      7.40         7.40
4. Width of Shoulders                  m              3.00      3.00          3.00
5. Minimum Radius of Curvature         m                200       300           200
6. Maximum Grade                       %              7.0       3.5           7.0
7.  Passing Sight Distance             m                500       750           500
8.  Type of Surface                            Asphaltic    Asphaltic   Asphaltic
Concrete     Concrete    Concrete
9.  Axle Load                          m tons        13        13            13
1/ For sections with climbing lanes (about ll km) the total width of roadway is increased
to 14.50 m, the width of pavement to 11.10 m and the vidth of shoulders reduced to
1.70 m.
Source:  Directorate of Highways and Bridges and Consultants' Reports, May 1971.
February 1972



SYRIA
SECOND HIGHTdAY PROJECTT
Breakdown of Construction Cost Estimates
(in SL millions)
- - Contingencies - -
Base              Major                       Physi-  Esca-   Uncer-
Length   Earth-   and               Masonry  Miscel-  S&b-        cal   lation   tainty
km _   works  Surface  Drainage   Works   laneous   Total    10%        20%       7%    Total
1.  Damascus-Lebanese
Border                       40       9.38    7.57     6.31      3.60      3.57   30°43    3.O4    6.08       2.13  41.68
2. Damascus(Xisswe)-Jordanian
Border                       85       0.82   16.62     0.71      0.21      3.47   21.83    2.18    4.36       1.53   29.90
3.  Homs-Tartous (Tall Kalakh)
Detour)                      28      2.86    5.01      1.17      0.82      0.61    h7        .05    2.10      0.73   >. 3
Totals     153     13.o6   29.20       8.19     4.63      7.65   62.73       .2   12                     /a
(uS$ 22.49
million
equivalent
/a Does not include right-of-way costs; total including right-of-way is SL 99.83 million.
Note: Estimates are based on 1970 prices.
Source: Directorate of Highways and Bridges and Consultants' Reports, May 1971.
February 1972



TABLE
SYRIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Unit Vehicle Operating Costs (Per km)
(SL net of taxes)
Existing Road       New Road
1. Damascus-Lebanese Border
i. Damascus-Zabadani
Passenger Car                              0.140               0.132
BUS                                        0.660              0.600
Light Truck (under 7 tons)                 0.h80              o.435
Heavy Truck (over 7 tons)                  o.550              o.500
ii. Zabadani-Lebanese Border
Passenger Car                              0.140             0128
Bus                                        0.660               0.,565
Light Truck (under 7 tons)                 0.480              0.415
Heavy Truck (over 7 tons)                  0.550              09475
2 . Damascus-Jordanian Border
Passenger Car                              0.131              0.128
Bus                                        0.499              0°439
Light Truck (under 7 tons)                 o.385               0.373
Hea'vy Truck (over 7 tons)                 0.416               0.379
3.  Tall Kalakh Detour
Passenger Car                              0.128              0.120
Bus                                        0.603               0.51
Light Truck (under 7 tons)                 0.431               0.339
Heavy Truck (over 7 tons)                  0.503               0,h61
Source: Consultants' Report, May 1971.
July 1971



SYRIA
SECOND >{IGHWAY PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis of Internal Economic Returne
(1)       (2)            (3)              (4)          (5)
Decrease    Increase
Decrease       Increase       Expected    Expected    Combination Combination
Best    Construction  Construction  Traffic        Traffic           of           of
Road                   Estimate  Cost by 20%   Cost by 20%   Grogth 10%  Growth 10%  (3) and (4) (2) and(5)
---------------------------- (Percent) ------------------------- ------__---------_
1. Damascus-Lebanon Border
a) Section 1
Damascus-Zabadani Junction        2h          26             22            23           25            21           27
b) Section 2
Zabadani Junction
- Lebanese Border                18          20             16            17           19            15           21
c) Average for both sections         22          24             20            21           2h            19           25
2. Damascus-Jordanian Border            15          17             13            14           16             12          18
3. Tall Kalakh Detour                   12          14             10            il           13              9          15
TOTAL PROJECT    18           20             16            17           19            15           21
Source:  Appraisal Mission, May 1971.
February 1972



TABLE 13
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traf.f1c on ProJect Roada - 1970
(AMT)
Trucks    Trucks              Average
Under     Over                Rate of
Section                Car     Bus     7 tons    7 ton8   Total       Growth
1. Damascus-Lebanese Border
i.) Damascus-Zabadani
Junction section      6,750      3é0    1,35O       540     9,000
Rate of Growth
ist ten yrs.(%)         15       6        10        5                 13.3
2nd ten yrs.(%)          7       4         8        4                  6.8
ii) Zabadani Junotion-
Lebanese Border
Section                2,080     166       320      582     3,1148
Rate of Growth
lst ten yrs.(%)         15       6        10        5                 12.2
2nd ten yrs.(%)          7       4         8        4                  8.9
2. Damascus-Jordanian
Border                    1,020      80       640      260      2,000
Rate of Growth
ist ten yrs. (%)        10       5         5        6                  7.7
2nd ten yrs. (%)         6       h         4        5                  5.2
3. Homs-Tartous
(Tall-Kalakh Detour)    1,045       146        84      815      2,090
Rate of Growth
ist ten yrs.(%)        10        4        10        8                  9.0
2nd ten yrs.(%)         8        4         8        7                  7.5
Source:  Directorate of Highways and Bridges, Ministry of Communications
May 1971
July 1971






ANNEX A
PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED IN THE FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.         The appraisal of the improvement works of the Damascus-Aleppo-
Raqqa road was made on the basis of very inadequate engineering preparation.
Substantial further engineering studies were needed before construction could
start.  It took about 15 months for the credit to become effective, after
which disagreements between DHB and the French consulting firm CITE on the
scope and quality of the studies for the improvement work caused further
delays. From the results of the preliminary engineering studies, it became
evident that the originally envisaged level of improvement of the existing
Damascus-Aleppo-Raqqa road would not be adequate to meet increased traffic
demands, and that full reconstruction, including realignments, should be
undertaken. This revised scope of work, as well as the need for a realign-
ment of about 90 km along the Euphrates river (where by 1975 the existing
road will be submerged by the reservoir to be created by the Tabqa Dam), led
to: (a) cost increases from US$8.5 million to about US$25.0 million, (b)
the need for a full review of the economic evaluation of the road, and (c)
additional delays in the engineering preparation. A few months after com-
pletion of the new economic and engineering studies, the Middle-East crisis
discouraged prospective bidders and necessitated new prequalification of
contractors and rebidding.
2.         On the basis of the revised engineering studies and new cost es-
timates, the Government proposed and the Association agreed to the following
changes in the project:
(a)  to include two major realignments ïn the Damascus-Aleppo-
Raqqa road;
(b) to confine credit financing to three contracts (the section
under the fourth contract will remain in the project, but
will be financed entirely by the Government);
(c) to revise the List of Goods; and
(d)  to reduce the Association's participation from 50% to 30%.
3.         Construction works started in early 1968; contracts have been
awarded for works on the four sections into which the road was divided and
works are now well under way; they are scheduled for completion by late 1973.



AhNEX B
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Estinated Disbursemente
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                           Cumulative Disbursement
and Qarter Ending                               at end of Quarter
(US$ '000)
Decamber .31, 1973                                        500
Harch 31, 1974                                          1,300
June 30, 1974                                           2,300
1
Septeaber 30, 1974                                      3,000
December 31j 1974                                       3,700
March 31, 1975                                          4.,400
June 30, 1975                                           5e200
September 30, 1975                                      6,000
Decembbr 31, 1975                                       6,800
March 31, 1976                                          7,600
June 30, 1976                                           8,400
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                      9,200
December 315 1976                                      10,000
March 31, 1977                                         11,000
.une 30, 1977                                          12,000
September 30, 1977                                     12,500
December 31, 1977                                      13,000
March 31, 1978                                         13,500
June 30, 1978                                          13,800
Source: Directorate of Highways and Bridges - Nimistry of Conmunications
and Appraisal Nission, NaY 1971.
February 1972.



SYRIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS AND OF
THE DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS AND BRIDGES
|  MINISTER OF COMMUNKCA7,N 1,  1                     SPCA 'GNCIES 
G  E  N  E  R  A  L                     D  I R  E  C  T O    R  A  T  E  S
|PLANNING          |             | VRANSPORT ANO                 HIGHWAYS AND                          ADMINISTRATION                  ACCOUNTING
LVE~~~~~~~~~~  BRID3GES                     
ADVISERS-
D I R E C T O R A T E S
CONTROLOF            SPECIAL                                                                MAJOR           SUPERVISION
IANCAONTRNCS                                      BRIDGES        LABORATORY          DESIGN                           0 DTORKSRI         EQUIPMENT 
1 G 11 C O N T R A C T S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  STUDIES ~~~~~~~~WO                             S          FIELD OFFICES
STATISTICS AND                                                                                   THIRTEEN
TRAFFIC COUNTS                                                                                   DISTRICT
OFFICE                                                                                           FIELD OFFICES
IBRD - 5886






<  If gh10d ghQ                                   Q               ,itXC .
t   |                 é:              >~~~~~~ -  0 g    a  E @ -   5~~~I-  .
g  -           -~~~  E   g 
t~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~                        -- -X           g -  
E                                                             Q t  X  \
tD
vfY~~~~~~~~Q YA ?~< i
3 'XA- t L  X X                i~                            g       7   2 Q 
g i 
t-                             /g                                 g 36    5
b CL           ^               8               1               >   4- I & 0
-a~~~



