CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 298 SYR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 17, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 298 SYR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 17, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 17, 1972, between SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sectiuns 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "Directorate of Highways and Bridges"
means the directorate by that name within the Ministry of Communications of
the Borrower and shall also include any successor directorate or agency of the
Borrower performing the present functions of said Directorate of Highways and
Bridges.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million eight hundred thousand
dollars ($13,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this


﻿4
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1978 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 1 and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
June 1    and    December 1     commencing    June 1, 1982    and    ending
December 1, 2021, each installment to and including the installment payable on
December 1, 1991 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Directorate
of Highways and Bridges with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound technical, engineering, administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in (i) prequalifying bidders
and analyzing bids for, and supervising the execution of, Part A of the Project,
and (ii) carrying out Part B (2) and (3) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.


﻿5
Section 3.03. (a) In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ or cause to be employed contractors acceptable to the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associition.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the general design
standards to be used for the highways included in Part A of the Project shall
be as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otierwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project (other than services of consultants) shall be
procured on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent
with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits
published by the Bank in August 1969, as revised in May 1971, and in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules, for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Asso  ation shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project: (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the Directorate of Highways and Bridges and other departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, within
the Directorate of Highways and Bridges, a Central Maintenance Department which


﻿6
shall be responsible to the General Director of Highways and Bridges for the proper
and efficient maintenance of the primary highway network.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the primary network of its highway
system to be adequately maintained in accordance with sound engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for that purpose.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall collect and record, in accordance with
appropriate statistical methods and procedures and on a regular and systematic
basis, such information concerning road traffic (including foreign truck traffic),
road construction and maintenance costs as shall be reasonably required for proper
planning of maintenance, improvements and extensions of its road system.
(b)   The Borrower shall enforce regulations and take all measures reasonably
necessary to ensure at all times that the dimensions and axle loads of the vehicles
using its roads do not exceed limits consistent with the structural and geometric
design standards of such roads.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.


﻿7
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and


﻿8
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have
established a Central Maintenance Department pursuant to Section 4.02 of this
Agreement.
Section 8.02. The date October 16, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02,
4.03 and 4.04 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20 years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Communications of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Communications
Directorate of Highways and Bridges
Damascus
Syria
Cable address:
Highways
Damascus


﻿9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s/ George Tohme
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. Shoaib
Vice President


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit, and the
percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Civil works                    8,540,000           52% of total ex-
penditures
II.   Consultant services            2,070,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
IlI.  Unallocated                    3,190,000
TOTAL         13,800,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)  the term    "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,


﻿procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under Category I or 1I shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures Linder Category I or II shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:    (1)  improvement    or    construction  of   sections  of  the
Damascus-Lebanese border highway (about 40 kin);
(2)  improvement of the Kiswe-Jordanian border section of the
Damascus-Jordanian border highway (about 85 ki); and
(3)   construction of 28 km  of the Homs-Tartous highway (Tall
Kalakh Detour).
Part B:    Services of consultants to assist in:
(1    prequalifying bidders and analyzing bids for, and supervising the
execution of, Part A above;
(2)   carrying out feasibility studies and, if justified on the basis of
such studies, detailed engineering for:
(a)   bypasses for the cities of Homis, Hama, Aleppo and Deraa
(about 70 kin); and
(b)  the Aleppo-Manbij-Tall Tamir-Tall Kojak road (about
470 km);
(3)   updating the maintenance study, prepared by consultants and
partly financed under the development credit agreement between
the Borrower and the Association dated December 24, 1963.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 1977.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    For all Project contracts, the Borrower shall prequalify bidders and shall
allow a period of at least 45 days for the submission of prequalification documents.
Such period shall commence on the day of delivery of the invitations to the local
representatives of member countries of the Bank and Switzerland or on the date
of publication of prequalification notices, whichever is later. The Borrower shall,
before qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the
Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with
a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association
for its comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make
such additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
2.    Non-Syrian contractors shall not be required to register in Syria as a condition
of bidding for the contract. Where said registration is required of a non-Syrian
contractor after he has been awarded the contract, the Borrower shall take such
action as may be necessary to facilitate his registration.
3.    For bidding purposes each one of the three Project roads shall be treated
as a bidding section. By prior agreement between the Borrower and the Association,
however, the Damascus-Lebanese Border and the Damascus (Kiswe)-Jordanian
Border roads may be subdivided into two bidding sections each. Where roads are
so subdivided for bidding purposes, the bidders may bid for one or the two sections
of each road and contracts shall be awarded on the basis of the lowest evaluated
bid or combination of bids for each road.
4.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
5.    A period of at least 60 days shall be allowed for submission of bids from
prequalified bidders. Bids shall be accompanied by a bid bond or other bidding
guarantee amounting to at least 2% of the bid amount.


﻿14
6.    The bidding documents shall contain, inter alia, the following requirements:
(a)   that the successful bidder shall be required to furnish at his option
either a performance bond in an amount of 100% of the contract price or a bank
guarantee by an acceptable financial institution in an amount of not less than
5% of the contract price, which guarantee or bond shall remain in effect until
the works specified in the contract are completed and accepted.
(b)   that the contract with the successful bidder shall contain the following
provisions:
(i)         retention by the Borrower of 10% of each payment. One-half
of the retention moneys shall be released when all work has
been substantially completed, and the other half after
termination of the contractor's responsibility in respect of
defects; and
(ii)        the warranty   period during which    the contractor remains
responsible in respect of defects in the works (fair wear and
tear excepted) shall extend for one year after acceptance of the
work.
7.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall promptly
inform the Borrower whether it has any objection to the intended award on the
ground that it would be inconsistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement
or with the Development Credit Agreement, and shall state the reasons for any
objections it may have.
8.    If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's reasonable objection,
or if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence,
materially differ from those on which bids are asked, no expenditure thereunder
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
9.    Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Association
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of


﻿15
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
10.  No change in any contract which together with other such changes, would
increase the amount of such contract by 10% or more shall be made unless such
change is agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards for Project Highways
Damascus
Damascus-        (Kiswe)-       Homs-Tartous
Lebanese        Jordanian      (Tall Kalakh
Border          Border           Section)
1.   Design Speed
(km/h)                    80             100              80
2.   Width of Road-          11.50-
way (m)                13.25           13.50           13.50
3.   Width of Sur-
facing (m)              7.40            7.40            7.40
4.   Width of
Shoulders (m)           3.00            3.00            3.00
5.   Minimum Radius
of Horizontal
Curvature (m)            200             300             200
6.   Maximum Grade
(%)                      7.0             3.5             7.0
7.   Passing Sight
Distance (m)             500             750             500
8.   Type of Surface       Asphaltic       Asphaltic        Asphaltic
Concrete        Concrete         Concrete


