Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. 7081-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORFORATION PROJECT
February 12, 1988
Country Department IV
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by redpients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Rupees (Rs)
US$1.00 - Rs 13.25
Rs 1.00 - US$0.0755
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Rs 1 lac - Rs 100,000
Rs 1 crore - Rs 10,000,000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AID     =  Agency for International Development
CHFS    =  Cooperative Housing Finance Societies
EROR    =  Economic Rate of Return
GDP     =  Gross Domestic Product
GIC     =  General Insurance Corporation of India
GOI     =  Government of India
HDFC    =  Housing Development Finance Corporation
HSP     =  Home Savings Plan
HUDCO   =  Housing and Urban Development Corporation
IFC     =  International Finance Corporation
ICICI   =  Investment Credit and Investment Corporation of India
LLD     =  Loan-Linked Deposits
LIC     =  Life Insurance Corporation of India
LOC     =  Line of Credit
MUD     =  Ministry of Urban Development
NIHB    =  National Housing Bank
RBI     =  Reserve Bank of India
UTI     =  Unit Trust of India



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
Tabl, of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMHARY .............................................. iii
I.    SECTOR BACKGROUND .........................................             1
A  Introduction ...........................................             1
B. Urban Housing Supply and Demand ........................             2
C. Housing Finance and Broader Financial Policy ...........             3
D. Structure of Financial Intermediation for Housing ......             4
E. Regulatory Environment and the National Housing Bank ...             6
II.   TEE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION (HDFC)                      7
A. Overviewof Operations and Finance .....................              7
B. Lending Program ........................................            10
C. Resource Mobilization ..................................            12
D. Institutional Development ..............................            13
E. Other Activities                    ..                              14
III.  BANK SECTOR EXPERIENCE AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT.             15
A. Bank Sector Experience .15
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement in the Project                       17
IV. THE PROJECT    ..18
A. Project Objectives    ..18
B. Project Description .18
C. Project Costs and Financing ............................            21
D. Procurement and Technical Assistance .23
E. Disbursement of the World Bank Loan .23
F. Audits and Project Monitoring ............. ............            25
V.    PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ................................            26
A. Project Benefits .......................................            26
B. Project Risks ..........................................            26
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMENDATIONS    ..27
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Bombay during
October 1987. The mission included Nina Shapiro (MissJon Leader), Robert
Buckley and Songsu Choi.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)                                               Page No.
TABLES
2.1   HDFC Operational and Financial Profile           ..                    9
4.1   Summary of HDFC Project Costs by Year .....................           22
4.2   Procurement Method for the HDFC Project           ..                  24
ANNEXES
1.    HDFCUs Projected Financial Statements .29
2.    Summary of Technical Assistance Component and Costs                   34
3.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements..                                 39
4.    Diagrams of HDFC's Organizational Structure .40
5.    Profile of HDFC Borrower Income Distribution 1986-1987                41
6.  Profile of HDFC Housing Loans .42
7.    Details of HDFC Resource Mobilization for FY 1987                     44
8.    Summary of Comparative Terms for Deposit Rates at
HDFC, Commercial Banks and Non-Financial Corporations                 45
9.    Summary of Comparative Terms for Housing Loans in the
Indian Formal Sector ...................                              46
10.   Diagram of Formal Intermediation in Indian Housing
Finance Sector ............................................           47
11.   GOIPs Sector Policy Statement to the World Bank ...........           48
12.   List of Documents in the Project File .....................           51
MAP
IBRD No. 19996-R: Location of HDFC Branch Offices



-iii-
INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Housing Development Finance Corporation, Ltd.
Guarantor:          India, acting by its President.
Executing           Housing Development Finance Corporation, Ltd.
Agency:
Amount:             US$250 million equivalent.
Terms:              Repayment in 20 years, including five years grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Beneficiariest      The project loan benefits directly about 70,000 households
receiving mortgage loans from HDFC; the borrowers come
mainly from the middie and lower-middle income groups.
Proiect             The objectives of the project are to support:
Obiectives:    I
(i)  HDFC's lending to extend the benefits of market-
oriented housing finance to a wider geographical area
and to a broader group of middle and lower-income
beneficiaries;
(ii)  further institutional development of HDFC roles as an
innovator and advocate of market-oriented finance,
and as a sector leader assisting the entry and
development of similar institutions; and
(iii) development of a regulatory framework to help ensure
the financial integrity of housing finance
institutions and their ability to mobilize resources
at market-rates, during a difficult period of change,
increased competition and refirm in the capital
markets.
Proiect             The proposed project helps finance housing through a line
Description:        of credit to HDFC, equal to a maximum 30Z of HDFC's mort-
gage lending program over a 3-1/2 year period. RDFC's
average loan for Rs 40,000 (about US$3,000) finances about
45' of the total housing cost. In the context of sector
development, the loan is eligible for disbursement in two
tranches tied to conditions relating to: (1) the initiation
of a regulatory environment for housing finance; and (2)
thE promotion of competitive resource mobilization, and the



- iv -
formulation of measures to reduce mortgage credit risk.
Technical assistance supports HDFC's institutional develop-
ment, branching to new geographic areas and development of
new mortgage instruments, especially for lower-income
groups. The project also supports HDFC's own technical
assistance to other emerging housing finance corporations
for their establishment of operating procedures and control
systems.
Proiect            The project supports the development of market-oriented
Benefits:          finance in India.  It comes at a critical time in the
Government debate whether to encourage housing finance
mainly through directed credit or competitive resource
mobilization. HDFC demonstrates the viability of the
latter approach, and the project helps stabilize its short-
term lending program during a transition period in the
capital markets. As the lead agency in the sector, HDFC is
expected to extend the benefits of market-oriented housing
finance through its own expansion and the promotion of
similar institutions. The development of sector policy is
expected to allow more competition in the financial mar-
kets, with households gaining greater opportunity to bid
for resources, and to promote a greater variety of housing
finance services with lower risks and lower costs. The
economic rate of return for urban housing investments fa-
cilitated by HDFC is estimated to be between 20-30Z. At
least 50Z of the bank loan would benefit households with
income below the urban median.
Proiect            Given HDFC's record, there is little institutional risk
Risks:             associated with its ability to disburse the loan or meet
the project covenants. Although there is some risk that
the implementation of the conditions relating to sector
development could be delayed by political or economic con-
siderations, the project design is consistent with policy
developments underway by GOI. Since the loan disbursement
is tied to HDFC's ability to mobilize at least 70? of its
resource requirements, the loan cannot be drawn down as
projected unless the sector enjoys an enabling environment
where funds can be raised competitively at market rates.
The project supports the emergence of such an environment.



v 
Zstimated Costs:'
Local       Foreimn       Total
--------- USS Million --------
HDFC Mortgage Program                   839.0          -          839.0
Technical Assistance                      0.7          1.1          1.8
Total Project Costs              839.7         1.1         840.8
Financing Plan:
Bank                                 248.9          1.1        250.0
HDFC                                 5S0.8          -          590.8
Total                                839.7          1.1        840.8
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY:                 1988          1989       1990      1991
---------------- US$ Million ----------------
Annual                   25.0 2        76.0       81.5      67.5
Cumulative               25.0         101.0     182.5      250.0
Estimated Proiect Completion Date: March 31. 1991
Economic Rates of Return: 20-30Z (based on imputed rental and sales
values of housing financed by HDFC mortgages).
Map: IBRD No. 19996-R
1/ Project costs are given in current terms. The Technical Assistance
component excludes duties and taxes (of US$118,000), and includes physical
contingencies (of US$146,000) and price contingencies (of US$160,000).
2/ Includes retroactive financing of US$ 25.0 million.



INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01       This project supports policy  developments  in the housing and
finance sectors in India. To help meet the vast housing demand, it fa-
cilitates construction of housing which has been constrained by lack of
housing finance. At the same time, by assisting the innovative efforts
of the Housing Development Finance Corporation (HDFC) to make mortgage
financing available at market rates, the project is consistent with
orderly liberalization of the capital markets.
1.02       The Government of India  (GOI)  has recognized the deep-rooted
problems in its highly regulated and centralized financial system, which
has effectively controlled interest rates and directed credit. Recently,
GOI has taken a number of corrective measures to allow market forces to
play a greater role in resource allocationl . However, the transition to
a more competitive, efficient financial system is likely to be a diffi-
cult one. Increasing the competition for funds when many of the coun-
try's major financial intermediaries are in poor financial condition
creates pressures on regulators. On the one hand, there is pressure to
reduce the competition for funds and ration out households and other
borrowers perceived to be of low  priority.   On the other hand, there is
pressure to permit financial intermediation to expand without estab-
lishing a sufficient regulatory framework.
1.03       HDFC is the only significant source of market-oriented housing
finance in India and it has been the chief promoter of a competitive
sector and a fiduciarily-sound regulatory system. Providing Bank support
to a well-functioning intermediary like HDFC contributes to the develop-
ment of the sector in two ways:
(a) During a period of piecemeal change and increased competition
in the capital markets, the project helps stabilize HDFC's
short-term program and its ability to both expand the availa-
bility of market-rate mortgages and assist the entry of
similar institutions.
(b) Coming at a critical point in the Government's debate on
whether to encourage housing finance mainly through directed
credit or through competitive resource mobilization, the proj-
ect helps HDFC demonstrate the viability of the latter
approach.
1/ India: Credit and Capital Markets Study, The World Bank, South Asia
Projects, Report No. 6661-IN, February 1987.



- 2 -
B. Urban Housing Supply and Demand
1.04       India's cities and towns  are  growing  rapidly in response to
industrialization and  economic  expatnsion.    The  high urban population
growth rate of 3-42 over the past two decades is expected to continue,
with more than half of all Indian population growth taking place in urban
areas. By the year 2000, the urban population is projected to reach at
least 325 million.   The  resulting  implications  for housing demand are
dramatic: about 1.7 million new urban housing units would be required in
each year for the rest of the  century.   This supply would just meet new
demand and not start to cope with present overcrowding, or a depreciating
housing stock. The formal sector, through government programs and finan-
cial intermediaries, currently provides funding for onl) about 275,000
urban units a year.
1.05       There is a growing  realization  that  urban development is an
important part of economic development and that past efforts to limit
urban growth have not only had limited impact but may have been counter-
productive. Due to the scale of the housing requirement, more attention
is being given in India to the development of appropriate sector policies
and institutions which can help meet the demand.
1.06       Four  broad  issues   characterize  India's  emerging  housing
policy, which will take some time to realize fully: (a) increased effi-
ciency and effectiveness of resource utilization, including affordable
design standards and low-cost technologies; (b) market-oriented pricing
and improved cost recovery and resource mobilization; (c) strengthening
of public sector management in terms of planning, budgeting and opera-
tions; and (d) a more rational allocation of responsibility between the
public and private sectors.
1.07       The project  represents  a  particularly  good  oppertunity to
foster objectives (b) and (d) above by encouraging the role of the
private sector in  market-oriented  housing  finance.    Past GOI housing
strategies have depended heavily on direct investment by the public
sector with funds mobilized under the directed credit system and usually
not fully recovered (paras 1.15-1.17).    These programs have been subsi-
dized and  limited  in  effect  and  replicability.    A  large amount of
publicly subsidized housing has gone to middle and upper-income groups,
which could have paid market rates.
1.08       In the Seventh Plan, GOI gives priority to meeting the housing
demand. The Government now maintains that: (a) greater emphasis should
be given to facilitating market-oriented housing finance by the private
sector, since the vast demand for housing can only be satisfied with
unsubsidized lending; (b) public resources should focus on efficient land
development, and selective', on delivery of serviced sites for lower-
income groups; and (c) the legal framework should be adjusted to reduce
the non-financial disincentives to housing investment such as rent
control, costly building regulations and restrictive land-management
policies.



-3-
C. Housing Finance and Broader Financial Policy
1.09       In spite of rising incomes, the share of housing investment in
Indian Gross Domestic Product (GDP) fell from about 5Z in the late 1960s
tc about 3Z in the 1980s. An important factor in this trend was the GOI
policy to  limit  the  availability  of  formal  sector  housing finance.
Because G01 directed so much heavily subsidized credit to 'priority'
sectors like industry and agriculture and to public enterprises, only
marginal amounts have  been  allocated  to  housing.   Potential mortgage
borrowers were effectively rationed out of the financial sector and
unable to bid for funds. As countries develop, housing finance typically
becomes a major factor in the capital markets.
1.10       Through the  nationalized  financial  intermediaries,  GOI has
controlled not only the flow of credit but, with an extensive system of
tax incentives and administered borrowing terms, has influenced where
savers place their financial  assets.    Banks have compensated for their
iubsidized lending, and low level of loan recoveries, with low interest
rates on deposits and high rates on lending to non-priority sectors. As
a result of government policies, the banking system suffers from rela-
tively low profitability and  inefficiency.    The growth of the non-bank
deposit market was a direct response to the inability of the financial
system to respond to market demand for services and resources.
1.11       At the same time  that  credit  policies have caused housing's
share of investment to decrease, they also resulted in a stagnating share
of savings held i4 financial assets. Moreover, this stagnation occurred
despite the fact that the savings rate increased2 and there was an extra-
ordinary amount of wealth  held  in  precious  metals.    In effect, the
strictured financial system, with its low or sometimes negative real
returns, has helped dissipate the benefit of India's high savings rate irt
inefficient savings patterns.
1.12       GOI has recognized the basic structural problems in the finan-
cial system, and has begun a series of reforms to improve the system's
competitiveness. HMrket-oriented housing finance can play a supportive
role in this new system by contributing to more dynamic competition in
the credit and capital markets.   If unconstrained by financial policies,
the demand for housing finance  would  increase.   Allowing households to
borrow for a *safe* rsset like housing could reasonably be expected to
both: (a) lower the transaction costs associated with the growing share
of housing investments; and (b) increase the utility of the formal
finance sector for households, and thereby mobilize greater financial
resources.
2/ Report of the Committee to Review the Working of the Monetary System
(Chakravarty Report), Reserve Bank of India, Bombay, 1985.



-4-
1.13       Changes undervay  in  the  capital  markets  could provide the
opportunity to integrate housing finance demand into the financial
system, and allow households to bid for credit at competitive rates.
However, the current system is so centralized, multi-tiered and with such
an extensive array of fiscal incentives and controls, that it will take
many years to fully deregulate, and for the cost of services and asso-
ciated risks to be more appropriately priced. Furthermore, the effects
of the implemented changes are difficult to predict and coordinate, and
can create disequilibrium in the system.
1.14       The combination  of  this  gradual  movement towards financial
liberalization, the rising GOI deficit, and the low profitability of the
banking system, all create pressures to again limit access to credit by
*lower priority' bidders, such as households. A possible result could be
another centralized system with an apex lender that channels below-market
rate funds to a restricted number of borrowers. This type of limitation
could create problems for market-oriented housing finance institutions,
at just the time GOI is evaluating how these institutions should be
structured and regulated.
D. Structure of Financial Intermediation for Housing
1.15       India's  housing  finance  sector  is  still  in  its infancy.
Merely 22 of formal financing is lent for housing and, as a result, the
formal sector is providing only about 20X of the total housing invest-
ment.   Like  the  financial  sector  in  general  (paras 1.09-1.10), the
structure of housing finance has been centralized, dominated by the
public sector, and characterized by the restricted allocation of directed
credit instead of market-oriented  intermediation.   (A chart showing the
structure of formal intermediation in the housing finance sector is given
in Annex 10.)    The  major  public  housing  finance intermediaries, the
Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO) and state apex socie-
ties generate few resources directly.   They depend almost exclusively on
allocations from  the  central  aad  state  governments  and nationalized
financial intermediaries: the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC),
which supplies the dominant share; the General Insurance Corporation of
India (GIC) group; and the nationalized banks to a small extent. The
funds are placed among various retail agencies mainly according to
government planning objectives.   In  sum, these ho!ising finance institu-
tions do not perform meaningful financial intermediation by making
markets for mortgage investment, but merely act as segmented administra-
tive channels for subsidized funds.
1.16       HUDCO:   Established  in  1970,  under  the  Ministry of Urban
Development (MUD), HUDCO is the main instrument for implementation of the
Government's housing policy.   It  is  the largest formal housing finance
institution and disbursed about Rs 220 crores in FY 1986. A part of its
funds is raised through the issuance of below-market rate debentures,
which are  government  guaranteed.    These  are  subscribed by insurance



-5-
companies and scheduled banks in order to meet the minimum government
lending targets for  the  housing  sector.    GOI also budgets subsidized
funds directly to MUDCO for special social programs. HUDCO then on-lends
its funds to state housing boards and development authorities for middle
as well as lower-income housing projects, also at below-market interest
rates. Repayment of loans to HUDCO is high because loans are guaranteed
by state governments and agencies. However, default rates by final bene-
ficiaries to the implement] ng  agencies  are  as  much  as 402.  Overall,
implicit subsidies from the low interest rates and low cost recovery are
estimated to equal almost half of HUDCO's spending. The subsidies them-
selves have acted as a disincentive for efficient use of real resources.
1.17       Cooperative  Housing  Finance  Societies  (CHFS):    Numbering
approximately 25,000, the CHFS's are located in most urbanized areas, and
receive, as a group, the largest share of housing credits. Most of the
societies are organized by builders and middle to upper-income groups to
take advantage of preferential access to land and finance from commercial
banks and state apex CHFS. Generally, these societies have also not been
well managed and have been subject to delinquency rates on repayments
averaging about 25Z. State apex societies raise nearly all their funds
(about Rs 150 crores in FY 1986) through term loans from LIC and GIC.
Significant growth in their lending has been restricted by the amounts
GOI allocates toj housing through the insurar.ce companies, and the high
default rates from primary societies.
1.18       Private Sector Housing Finance  Institutions:   Since the late
1970's, several private sector institutions have begun to make housing
loans. Most are affiliated with particular developers to finance their
own inventories, and only HDFC has attained any significant scale of
operations. Its operations are free from the critical weaknesses of
traditional formal housing finance, notably the high rates of default,
unsustainable subsidies and strict dependence on directed credit. By
establishing a direct relationship between the supply and demand for
mortgage funds, HDFC has helped to generate additional resources for the
sector (see Section II).    Although  in  the longer term, the increasing
liberalization of India's financial sector is expected to favor the
growth of market-oriented operations, in the short term, there are uncer-
tainties facing intermediaries competing for housing finance resources
(paras 1.13-1.14).
1.19       Other Forms of Formal  Housing  Finance:  Ccmmercial banks and
insurance companies do a small amount of lending for private sector
housing mainly to the higher-income groups and corporations. Additional
formal housing finance is provided by larger corporations for employee
housing, and by trusts and provident funds for their members, with or
without explicit intermediation by financial institutions.
1.20       Informal Housing  Finance:    By  far,  the  dominant share of
housing investment is provided by the informal sector. While it is dif-
ficult to quantify various modes of informal financing, it is believed
that self-financing through liquidation of tangible as well as financial
assets is the most important.    Borrowing from informal money lenders is



expensive (6-8Z above formal market rates) and short-term, and essen-
tially provides only bridge financing. This pattern makes home-ownership
unaffordable to most Indian urban families, and forces even the middle
and upper-middle-income group to delay investments.
E. Regulatory Environment and the National Hoising Bank
1.21       For housing finance to  profit  from  a more liberal financial
system, there is a need for an enabling regulatory ervironn. --t that would
provide confidence in the way housing finance institutions operate and in
their capacity to mobilize adequate resources. To expand sufficiently,
yields on investments in mortgage credit must be competitive with alter-
native investments. The recent creation of a National Housing Bank (NHB)3
and its placement under the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) gives the Govern-
ment a vehicle to develop the financial integrity of the housing finance
sector, to manage elements of the regulatory framework and to supervise
housing finance  institutions  in  the  public  interest.    The NHB Bill
defines broad functions for the new institution as a regulator and pos-
sible lender for housing finance, and its specific orientation and tasks
are still to be worked out.
1.22       In a policy note to the Bank,  GOI stated that, as part of its
operations, the NHB would have a regulatory confirmed function to help
create an "enabling environment to encourage housing finance institutions
to raise funds and ernage in market-oriented financing" (see Annex 11).
However, there is still some concern that the NHB could become another
centralized mechanism for allocating credit on subsidized terms. The
details of a system for fostering and regulating private sector housing
finance, with perhaps separate windows catering to the credit needs of
public sector agencies, has yet to be fully developed.  It is clear that,
for the regulatory environment to be able to affect the large-scale
demand  for  housing  funds,   it   must   facilitate  the  expansion  of
financially-sound housing financa institutions and the creation of new
ones. HDFC provides the model for a workable system (see Section II).
From a small capital base, it has been able to exploit the advantages of
market competition and well-managed risk and cost recovery to become the
major player in urban housing finance.
1.23       There are three major sector issues which require attention by
NHB, and which are being addressed by the project tranche conditions
(paras 4.09-4.12):
(a)  The Regulatory Framework  (para  4.10):   Existing regulations
are insufficient to ensure the fiduciary responsibility or
viability of private housing finance institutions. Considera-
tion should be given to setting criteria for the capital
structure (i.e. debt to equity ratio, net worth, contingency
reserves); asset management (i.e. portfolio structure, types
and security of loans to be made); liability management (i.e.
3/ Bill No. 91 of 1987, Lokh Sabha, Government of India



- 7 -
norms for retail deposits and marketable securities); and
financial management (i.e. guidelines for operational controls
and financial audit).
(b)  Resource Mobilization (para  4.11):    In competing for funds,
housing finance needs diversified linkages to the credit
markets and access to household savings. Currently, market-
oriented housing finance is at a disadvantage with respect to
all major competitors:    the  Unit  Trust  of India (UTI) can
offer larger tax advantages for savers; banks can offer the
convenience of an extensive and heavily subsidized branching
system, a wider range of financial services, and greater
liquidity of deposits; corporations can offer better returns
on deposits; and the Government still controls the forced
investments of the financial system. A more competitive posi-
tion would require housing to receive similar tax and regula-
tory treatment as other investments with similar risks.
Access could also include the reduction of constraints for
housing finance to compete for funds with banks and corpora-
tions, particularly for short-term savings and for investments
from provident funds. Although these funds, which hold about
25Z of household savings, would be a good match for long-term
mortgage investments, they are now allowed to invest only in
below-market government securities. Until the capital markets
are less tightly controlled, NHB must assure that the new
housing finance sector has adequate instruments to attract
market finance.
(c)  Reduction of Credit Risk  (para  4.12):   Current mortgage law
makes foreclosures extremely difficult, time-consuming and
expensive.    The  potentially  high  cost  of  default forces
lenders to exact high downpayments, which is a major deterrent
to the expansion of mortgage finance for lower-income groups.
Mortgage insurance, if supported by changes in foreclosure
laws, may be the best instrument to bear and spread the credit
risk. However, it would only be effective if it were market-
priced according to the actual risk of default for each insti-
tution and not coercive at a uniform rate.
II. THE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION (HDFC)
A. Overview of Operations and Finances
2.01        Incorporated in  1977,  HDFC  had  majcr equity participation
from the  IFC,  Industrial  Credit  and  Investment  Corporation of India
(ICICI), and Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development. Nearly 55Z of the
stock is held by large Indian corporations and 25Z is widely distributed
among small  companies  and  the  public.    Host  of  its operations are
governed by regulations of the Reserve Bank of India. However, as a
private sector corporation, HDFC is free to set it3 own borrowing and
lending rates within the context of the Indian financial environment.



-8-
2.02        HDFC's primary  objective  is  to  provide  long-term housing
finance to middle-income urban households which are mostly unserved by
the formal housing finance system (paras 1.15-1.20). HDFC has managed to
expand rapidly around the rigidly directed credit system. It has become
a viable alternative both to public sector mortgage lenders, and a safer
investment than the competitive unregulated corporate deposit market.
Since 1980, loan disbursements have grown at over 35Z a year, to Rs 176
crores (about US$135 million) in FY 1987, financing about 46,000 units in
that year. By 1991, HDFC expects to disburse about Rs 400 crores (about
US$300 million), financing 77,000 units or about 4? of projected new
housing demand (para 1.04 and Table  2.1).   HDFC now ranks as the second
largest housing finance institution after HUDCO and as the largest in
urban housing finance.    The  on-going  liberalization  of the financial
sector is expected to further strengthen HDFC's position relative to the
major public sector institutions, which rely heavily on subsidized and
directed credits for funds and on intermediary guaranties for recovery.
2.03        Carefully positiored lending and borrowing rates have enabled
HDFC to compete effectively and profitably (paras 2.08, 2.14, 2.15). In
FY 1987, the average cost of funds was 11.6Z nn all outstanding debt and
12.5Z on long-term borrowings, and  the aver..&e interest income was 14.1Z
on outstanding loans. HDFC's overall spread, after expenses, was 1.8Z.
HDFC has conservatively managed its loan appraisal and recovery processes
to contain arrears and defaults to a negligible proportion of its
outstanding portfolio (para 2.10). Combined with low administration cost
of less than 12 of outstanding loan volume, the interest spread has been
sufficient to enable HDFC to earn after-tax profits of over 20? of net
worth in each of  the  last  five  years.   (HDFC's current and projected
financial statements are given in Annex 1.)
2.04        HDFC's second equity issue  in  1.987,  which was highly over-
subscribed, doubled the shareholder equity to Rs 20 crores; another share
issue of Rs 10 crores is planned for FY 1991. Despite recent declines in
the Indian stock market, HDFC's share price has maintained a steady level
of about Rs 130-135 per share (a third increase over the par value of
Rs 100 per share) and currently pays a dividend of 16Z on par. The divi-
dend policy, the relative stability of domestic interest rates, and
HDFC's consistently good financial performance have led stockholders to
view HDFC as a stabLe investment with almost bond-like features.
2.05        Without a compatible  regulatory  environment, HDFC has safe-
guarded its fiduciary integrity as would a well-regulated institution.
It has a variety of protections from liquidity problems: average loan
maturities of about nine years are satisfactorily matched with average
liability life of about seven years; its liquidity position, in cash and
liquid securities, has been consistently maintained between 20? to 252 of
total assets or half of its deposit liability; and its debt-to-equity
ratio currently stands at about 14. Through accumulation of reserves and
moderate capital increases, this ratio is expected to stay below 17.5
over the next few years.



-9-
Table 2.1:    Housing Development Finance Corporation
operational and Financial Profile
(in Rs cro-es)
Projected
Fiscal Year           1978-79    1982-83    1986-87          1990-91
Housing Loans Disbursed          1.3        47.8      175.5           397.3
Cuzulative                             109.0      598.4         1,870.6
Housing Loans Sanctioned         7.1        76.1      237.5           437.5
(Number of Units)          6,645     19,472      46,023          77,300
Number of Staff                   76         222        575           1,072
Net Worth                        9.9        14.2       43.1           111.9
Total Assets                    10.2       121.2      614.8         1,669.2
Debt/Equity Ratio                0.1         7.5       13.3            13.9
Profit after Tax                 0.06        2.89       9.25           22.6
(Z of net worth)             0.6Z      20.3X       21.52          23.2?
Source: HDFC annual reports and financial projections.



- 10 -
2.06        As  the  only  significant  market-oriented  housing  finance
institution, HDFC has played an important role as the sector leader to
facilitate development of  housing  finance  in  India.   It is promoting
various new institutions in the sector through equity participation and
technical assistance (para 2.23).   Since its inception, HDFC has identi-
fied and advocated policy reforms to enable itself and other similar
institutions to mobilize resources competitively. Although the extraor-
dinary growth in its portfolio is expected to slow to about 25Z a year
over the project period, HDFC's continued expansion and innovative per-
formance will have a significant impact on efforts to increase available
housing finance. While expanding rapidly to 16 branches, located in all
major metropolitan areas, HDFC has experienced some pressure on its
operating systems, and training and computerization of controls have been
an on-going effort.
B.  Lending Operations
2.07        HDFC make3 three major types of housing loans, almost all for
new construction.   Conventional  15-year  mortgage  loans to individuals
account for approximately 70Z of total loan disbursements. Under the
Line of Credit (LOC) facility, loans are made available to corporations
acting either as guarantor for employee mortgages or as the borrower for
on-lending to individual employees.    Corporate  loans are also extended
for employe6 housing. These types of bulk lending to or through corpora-
tions equal about 27Z of  current  lending.   Marketing efforts are being
focused on these in order to take advantage of the efficiency of volume
lending, lower risk, and better reach to lower income groups who are the
majority beneficiaries of such loans.   The remaining 3Z of total lending
goes to cooperatives for home-building by members and to builders for
short-term construction loans.
2.08        Terms for  individual  mortgage  loans  include  repayment in
equal monthly installments over a period between 7 to 20 years, normally
15 years, at an annual interest rate between 12.5Z to 14.52; this rate is
lower for smaller loans to the lower-income borrowers. Corporate loans
are repaid over 3 to 7 years at an annual interest rate of 14.5Z to
15.5Z. HDFC retains the right to adjust interest charges as a partial
protection against possible escalation of borrowing costs. Annex 9 indi-
cates HDFC's lending terms compared with those for other institutions.
The maximum amount of an individual loan is 702 of housing cost including
land up to Rs 1.5 lacs; 80Z of housing cost or Rs 1.5 lacs for LOC loans;
and 50Z of construction cost or Rs 1 lac per housing unit for corpora-
tions. However, other loan eligibility criteria, related to household
cash flow, have limited the average loan to around 45Z of total house
value, or Rs 40,000 as of June 1987.
2.09        All HDFC housing loans  are  secured by an equitable mortgage
on the property  fi  nced.    Due  to  serious  difficulties in enforcing
mortgage rights (para 1.23), conservative appraisal and disbursement



- 11 -
procedures are adopted to ensure the market values of the land and
proposed structure, and to minimize defaults. Loans are normally limited
such that the monthly payment would not exceed 302 of family income.
Loan approvals can also be contingent upon large downpayments, net worth
requirements, credit history, third-party references and guaranties, and
hypothetication of life dnsurance proceeds.   Loan disbursements are made
in stages according to the progress of construction; they start after
completion  of  the   land   purchase   and   the  preliminary  phase  of
construction.    Viability  of  the  project  and  repayment  capacity of
borrowers are further confirmed during the disbursement.
2.10        Repayment:    HDFC  strictly   monitors  repayment  of  loans
starting right after the  first  disbursement.    The Accounts Section of
each branch follows up on arrears of a month or more by mail notification
and personal interviews; status of arrears accounts is reported to head-
quarters every week. Due to its rigorous procedures of appraisal, dis-
bursenent, and follow-up, HDFC's arrears over twelve months are very low
by any standard for similar institutions; they comprise less than 0.2? of
total loans outstanding or about 3.3? of repayments due for FY 1987.
I
2.11        Beneficiaries' Income  Distribution:    Although  there is no
upper income limit for eligible borrowers, the maximum loan per unit is
effectively of little interest for high-income groups. Most HDFC loans
go to middle-income households, with about 35Z of the beneficiaries
earning less than the urban median income, which is conservatively esti-
mated to be at least Rs 1,700 per month (see Annex 5). While 28? of
individual borrowers in FY 1987 had incomes below the urban median, 88?
of the beneficiaries of the corporate loan programs fell below the
median.
2.12        The  loan  distribution,  with  the  concentration  on middle
rather than lower-income households,   can be attributed to a combination
of factors: the high cost of home-ownership in Indian cities relative to
household incomes; the concentration of HDFC operations in large metro-
politan areas such as Bombay, where average income levels as well as
housing costs are much higher than in smaller cities; and HDFC's conser-
vative loan appraisal criteria required due to the lack of mortgage secu-
rity.   Continuing  efforts  to  enlarge  lending  to lower-income groups
include: increased marketing of LOC and corporate loans, and contractual
savings schemes; expansion of branches and out-reach programs into smal-
ler, less expensive urban areas; and participation in experimental low-
income housing finance programs.
2.13        With access to longer-term loan  funds, HDFC plans to offer a
correspondingly more mortgages with 20-year repayment term for lower-
income borrowers. HDFC has recently introduced loans with more flexible
lending terms; for example, the graduated repayment schedule (Step-UP
Repayment Facility), with five-yearly increases averaging 5? per year in
installments, is presently being test-marketed to younger families.



- 12 -
Through two new saving and loan schemes--the Home Savings Plan (HSP) and
Loan-Linked Deposits (LLD)--HDFC hopes to assist borrowers to qualify for
mortgages by establishing the necessary equity base and credit records.
The HSP is a contractual savings scheme making the subscriber eligible
for a housing loan one and a half times the savings accumulated over 2 to
7 years. The savings are paid interest of 62 per annum, lower than
normal HDFC deposits of similar maturity, but competitive to commercial
bank rates; the loan is repayable in 12 years at the low interest of
8.5Z.  In LLD, although the  linkage between savings and loans is looser,
the loan amount can equal up to four times the accumulated savings.
Savings of 2 to 5 yea4s are paid interest of 92 per annum; the loan
carries the regular interest rate but a longer maturity than usual. For
both HSP and LLD, the actual loan amount Is limited by the normal
appraisal criteria.
C. Resource Mobilization
2.14        HDFC mobilizes resources through a diversified combination of
savings deposits, term loans, bonds, and equity (see Annex 7 for details
of resource mobilization in  FY  1987).    As  HDFC matures, repayment of
principal on housing loans is becoming an important and self-perpetuating
source of funds; it is expected to increase to about a third of all dis-
bursements by FY 1989. Borrowings are nearly evenly divided between HDFC
deposits from individuals, trtsts and corporations; and HDFC bonds and
term loans from other  financial  intermediaries.   HDFC's rates are uni-
formly about 2Z above bank rates, but about 1.52 below corporate and UTI
rates (see Annex 8).   To  compensate  for  the higher rates of corporate
instruments, HDFC deposits carry lower risk, certain institutional tax
advantages, and explicit or implicit preferences for obtaining mortgage
loans. Also, since HDFC has proven itself a relatively safe investment,
HDFC deposits have been deemed eligible for trust savings and fulfillment
of liquidity requirements by corporate deposit takers. Although HDFC
does offer higher rates than banks, it does not offer checking facil-
ities, and is less attractive for the significant portion of bank
deposits which are held in very short-term accounts. Households appa-
rently place a premium on liquidity and are willing to accept very low
interest on accounts of less than 30 days. HDFC is requesting government
permission to offer shorter-term accounts, and to advertise more openly
the yield advantages 6f its deposits for households.
2.15        Bonds and term loans from other financial intermediaries have
increased steadily in importance for HDFC since the early 1980's.
Although HDFC bonds mature in ten years, they are more freely transfer-
able and therefore more flexible than other bonds on the market. HDFC is
also exploring the marketing advantages of developing alternative types
of mortgage-backed securities.    Term  loans  include some 18-year loans
from the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), and shorter-term loans from
commercial banks, and trust  funds.    Earlier, HDFC raised foreign loans
(para 4.15) from the IFC (US$4.0 million) and through the USAID Housing
Guaranty Program (US$90.0 million).   The  importance of the foreign bor-
rowings has declined sharply in recent years as domestic resource mobili-
zation has increased at a rate approaching 502 per year.



- 13 -
2.16        HDFC has  been  able  to  compete  effectively against larger
financial institutions for domestic resources and achieve rapid growth
owing to three related factors:    an effective product mix and marketing
to take full advantage of the limited set of opportunities; its growing
stature as a fiduciarily sound institution; and until now, its relatively
small size compared with the domestic financial market. While seeking
relaxation of the restrictions on its borrowing instruments and ability
to advertise commercially, HDFC is branching and attempting to diversify
its resource base in borrowings and deposits from households and corpora-
tions.
D. Institutional Development
2.17        HDFC is governed by  the  Board  of Directors which currently
has sixteen members, including the Chairman of the Board who is one of
the leaders of the Indian financial community and led the effort to found
HDFC. The Managing Director, who is the chief executive of the company,
and five outside Directors constitute the Executive Committee which makes
important operational and policy decisions, including approval of larger
loans.
2.18        HDFC's operations are organized  into four functional Depart-
ments headed by General Managers (the organizational chart is shown in
Annex 4):
(a)    OPERATIONS--all lending activities;
(b)    RESOURCES--mobilization of funds  and short-term fund manage-
ment;
(c)    FINANCE  and  PLANNING--corporate  planning,  accounts,  loan
recoveries, and administration; and
(d)    HUMAN RESOURCES--personnel administration, training, research
and publicity.
2.19        Headquartered in Bombay, HDFC has  16 branches located in all
major metropolitan areas of India (see Map). A few branches have as many
as 50 employees and organizations similar to the headquarters; the orga-
nizational structure of a more typical branch with 20 to 30 staff is
shown in Annex 4. Five sub-branches have only five or six employees and
receive accounting and administrative support from larger branches
nearby. Even smaller markets are reached by "outreach camps" set up at
regular intervals by visiting HDFC staff to accept deposits and loan
applications; a network of local representative offices is planned to
expand the outreach program.    The  hierarchy of regional offices allows
HDFC to concentrate on marketing in new areas without committing full
overhead resources until a location warrants them.



- 14 -
2.20        Reflecting Bombay's  status  as  the  locale  of the national
capital market and large corporate headquarters, approximately half of
deposits and 752 of all funds are mobilized at the head office, where 75Z
of the loans are made at branches. Loans are concentrated in the *festern
and southern regions (see Annex  6).    As  HDFC tries to increase lower-
income clientele in terms of both savings and loans, it will expand and
strengthen the branch network in smaller cities where income levels are
lower. It must be noted, however, that the timing of expansion also
depends on the extent to which the local housing industry is well orga-
nized and can respond to the availability of finance. Between FY 1988
and FY 1991, HDFC plans  to  open  five full branches, four suL-branches,
and twelve representative offices. So far, operations have been strongly
centralized, but more control and support functions are being devolved to
the branches under a new regional management structure.
2.21        HDFC has  attracted  a well-qualified  and  highly motivated
staff. The number of staff is expected to grow from the current 575 to
about 1,000 by the end of FY 1991, and about half of the increase will be
required by the branches opening from FY 1988. HDFC is engaged in three
related developmental efforts to accommodate decentralization and growth
in its size and complexity of operations (see Annex 2): (i) review of
operations and management controls to assure an appropriate organizatio-
nal structure and the consistent application of operational procedures
and controls; (ii) expansion of computerized automation to all branches
and areas of operations; and (iii) strengthening of formal training pro-
grams for technical and human relations skills needed for branch expan-
sion, system development and computerization.
E. Other Activities
2.22        HDFC provides a variety  of technical assistance to borrowers
in conjunction with  its  lending.    For  individuals, HDFC maintains an
information base of planned and on-going housing developments for public
use, and offers real estate  services.    Track records of developers and
contractors are kept on file as a market information resource, and also
as reference for  loan  appraisals.    Corporate  buyers  are often given
assistance in technical and financial planning of employee housing
projects and in implementation supervision.
2.23        In an  effort  to  promote  new  housing finance institutions
similar to itself,  HDFC  is  contributing  equity  capital and technical
assistance to three new institutions (see Annex 2):
(a)    HOUSING  PROMOTION   FINANCE  CORPORATION--providing  housing
finance and developing demonstration housing complexes in
eastern and north-eastern  India  where  income, savings, and
housing consumption are low;



- 15 -
(b)    GUJARAT  RURAL  HOUSING  FINANCE  CORPORATION--providing home
construction and improvement loans in rural areas of Gujarat
state; and
(c)    CANFIN  HOMES--establishing   a   mortgage  finance  company,
promoted by  Canara  Bank,  for  lending  mostly  in southern
India.
HDFC will coordinate its operations with these companies to the extent
that they will not set up direct competition in any one area. Since the
market demand is so large, HDFC does not view the new entrants as threat-
ening competition but as an opportunity to create a brcader institutional
base for the sector.
2.24        Since HDFC. is  also  recognized  as  a  technical  leader in
housing finance for the South Asia region, its personnel have been
invited frequently to provide consultancy services in Nepal, Bhutan, Sri
Lanka, Bangladesh, The Philippines and Indonesia.
2.25        HDFC's  secondary  activities  include  HDFC  Developers Ltd,
which was established in 1980 as a wholly-owned subsidiary with a sepa-
rate financial structure. It has developed two medium-scale residential-
cum-commercial complexes in Maharashtra  State  at  the  cost of about Rs
12.5 crores. In 1986, HDFC also started a modest leasing operation and
has disbursed about Rs 3.4 crores for equipment related to urban infra-
structure services and construction.   In  addition, HDFC will be a third
partner with the Central Bank of India, and the Unit Trust of India
(UTI), in a joint venture to establish Infrastructure Leasing and Finan-
cial Services Ltd., which will serve municipalities and companies in need
of infrastructure facilities.
III. BANK SECTOR EXPERIENCE AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
A. Bank Sector Experience
3.01       The Bank  has  supported  public  sector  development of urban
land, infrastructure and shelter, and a range of municipal services espe-
cially for the lower-income  groups.    Projects have also included major
efforts to improve sector management and resource mobilization. To date,
the Bank has committed a total of about US$765 million to support 12
urban projects in India.    Six  proj;ects  have  been completed4  and six
projects are under implementation.5
4/  Bombay Transport (Ln. 1335-IN); Calcutta  I (Cr. 427-IN) and II (Cr.
726-IN); Calcutta Transport (Cr. 1033-IN); Kanpur (Cr. 1155-IN); and
Madras I (Cr. 687-IN).
5/  Bombay  (Cr.  1544-IN);  Calcutta  III  (Cr.  1369-IN);  Gujarat (Cr.
1643-IN); Madhya Pradesh (Ln. 2329-IN); Madras II (Cr. 1082-IN); and
Uttar Pradesh (Cr. 1780-IN).



- 16 -
3.02       Physical investments are  largely  being implemented satisfac-
torily, and progress is being made in achieving better cost recovery
through market pricing and interest rates, although less so in raising
property tax revenues.   Improvements  in sector management of operations
and maintenance  have  proven  more  difficult  to  achieve.   The Bank's
lending program will continue to iuiclude investment projects, particu-
larly in states where little Bank assistance has been provided pre-
viously. Bank sector work and lending will increasingly support the
central and state governments in formulating sector policy and improving
sector management.
3.03       In its urban projects, the Bank has been effective in establi-
shing a policy dialogue on housing with GOI. The Government's recently
prepared draft paper on National Housing Policy as well as the Seventh
Plan (para 1.08), have stressed much of the same strategy advanced in
World Bank sector work and urban projects.
3.04       With appropriate design standards and construction techniques,
and efforts to reduce constraints in the land market, Bank-assisted proj-
ects have demonstrated the feasibility of more efficient land develop-
ment, the extension of infrastructure to slum neighborhoods and the pro-
vision of a large supply of affordable housing to lower and lower-middle-
income groups at market rates  of  interest.   The Bank intends to pursue
this housing strategy through the development of state housing boards and
HUDCO as potential intermediaries for the design and supervision of spe-
cific projects. The separation of the financial and development func-
tions has been recommended by the Bank as a way to improve discipline of
cost recovery and efficiency of  operations.   While the Bank has increa-
singly included the private sector in its projects for housing con-
struction and finance, the lack of an adequate housing finance system has
limited implementation of the  Bank's  approach.    As part of its sector
work in India, the Bank completed a Housing Finance Review6 which led to
the preparation of this project.
3.05       Through the International Finance  Corporation (IFC), the Bank
Group has already been involved directly with HDFC. IFC supported the
original capitalization of HDFC in 1978 by investing (Investment No. 404-
IN) about US$600,000 in equity, and providing US$4.0 million as a line of
credit for operations. IFC's wseedw loan was critical in starting opera-
tions before HDFC was able to attract long-te.-m lending from local insti-
tutions. Also, IFC helped provide access to housing finance expertise,
which allowed HDFC staff to adapt a workable system of mortgage lending.
In 1987, IFC exercised its rights under HDFC's subsequent equity
offering, and invested an additional US$400,000 to retain its 5Z share-
holding interest in HDFC.
6/ World Bank Report No. 6453-IN, February 1987.



- 17 _
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement in the Project
3.06       The project comea  at  a particularly  important moment, when
housing finance issues are being broadly discussed in India and priority
has been given to development of the sector.   It also comes at a time of
transition in the capital markets.    In addition, decisions will soon be
taken on the emphasis to be given by NHB to its roles as a possible apex
source of directed credit or as a regulator of a diversified and market-
oriented housing finance sector.
3.07       The  project  supports  an  effective  alternative  to housing
finance through directed credit.   HDFC has already demonstrated the via-
bility of market-oriented housing  finance  and,  with a greater regional
presence, should become a more forceful advocate in the NHB and sector
policy debates.   Conversely,  by  encouraging  policy ch nges that would
facilitate the environment for housing finance, the project also helps
HDFC and similar institutions to flourish, and to expand resource
mobilization for housing.
3.08       HDFC is viewed as the  innovative and principal institution in
the sector and can serve not only as a promoter of regulatory change, but
as a model and provider of technical assistance for the entry of new
institutions. Given the size of HDFC's current program and financing
needs, and HDFC's role in developing housing and finance sector policies,
it is appropriate that the Bank become involved.
3.09       The project helps  stabilize  HDFC's  short-term  program in a
period of increasing competition and deregulation in the credit markets.
This loan is not viewed as the first of a series; clearly, over the long
term, large-scale borrowings for mortgage lending should be mobilized
from domestic rather  than  foreign  sources.   Specifically, the project
gives HDFC an opportunity to accelerate its branching, and to attempt new
types of savings and borrowing instruments such as graduated mortgages
and new savings schemes that it might not otherwise attempt in the
present uncertain environment. It also assures HDFC of market-rate funds
during a period of adjustment when certain of its current *niches" for
resource mobilization may be eroded by the deregulation of the financial
system.
3.10       In terms of the Bank's  financial  sector goals for India, the
project is consistent with supporting more efficient and equitable finan-
cing patterns. Through branching and competitive resource mobilization,
HDFC would help develop a broader and more flexible network for housing
finance.   This  would  give  households  a  better  opportunity to shift
savings into financial assets at market rates, and allow effective inter-
mediatlon for long-term investment in housing.



- 18 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. ProJect Obiectives
4.01       The main project objectives include:
(a) Support of HDFC's lending in a period of transition in the
capital markets in order to extend the benefits of market-
oriented housing finance to a wider geographical area and to
a broader group of middle and lower-income beneficiaries;
(b) further institutional development of HDFC's roles as an inno-
vator and advocate of market-oriented finance, and as sector
leader assisting the entry and development of similar insti-
tutions;
(c)  sector development of  a  supportive  regulatory framework to
ensure the financial integrity of housing finance institu-
tions and their capacity to mobilize resources at market
rates.
B. Project Description
4.02        The preposed project helps finance housing through a line of
credit to HDFC. The Bank loan equals about 30X of HDFC's mortgage lend-
ing program (paras 2.02, 2.07-2.09) over a 3-1/2 year period, from
October 1987 (the start of retroactive financing) until March 1991. A
profile of HDFC housing loans is given in Annex 6. Technical assistance
supports HDFC's efforts in: (a) institutional development (paras 4.06-
4.08); (b) branching to new geogzaphical areas including training of
required staff and deployment of co'puter systems for the expanded net-
work (para 4.05); and (c) and deveZopment of innovative mortgage and
borrowing instruments, especially for lower income groups (para 4.04).
The project also supports HDFC's own technical assistance to new housing
finance corporations for their start-up activities and establishment of
procedures and controls (para 2.23). Details and costs of the technical
assistance component are given in Annex 2.
HDFC' Lending Program
4.03        Resource Mobilization -  The  Bank  loan funds cannot exceed
30Z of HDFC's loan disbursement  total,  thus requiring HDFC to mobilize
the balance of 70Z of  resources  at  market  rates in a period when its
overall portfolio will be-growing by about 20Z a year. HDFC's resource
mobilization strategy and manpower constraints have been reviewed care-
fully and the present financial projections realistically convey HDFC's
growth potential for a lending program of about US$840 million over the
project period. (See Annex 1).



- 19 -
4.04        Lending to Lower-Income  Groups  - The longer-term borrowing
available through the project enables HDFC to develop alternative mort-
gage instruments  for  poorer  households.    Although  HDFC  lending is
expected to remain concentrated on the middle-income group (paras. 2.11-
2.13), at least SOX of the Bank loan will finance mortgages for house-
holds with incomes below the urban median, currently estimated to be at
least Rs 1700 per month; this figure will be adjusted annually according
to the consumer price  index  in  India.    As part of the reimbursement
requests to the Bank, HDFC will confirm its lending to below urban
median-income groups. Back-up documentation on the beneficiaries will
be maintained in HDFC  offices,  and will  be  subject to review by the
auditors. Technical assistance supports study trips abroad to help HDFC
review potential mortgage instruments and savings plans for lower-income
groups.  HDFC will finalize plans by  June 1989, and furnish them to the
Bank, to broaden lending to lower-income groups.
4.05        Geographical Expansion - A  major  component of HDFC's stra-
tegy is to develop a more flexible national mortgage market, with
greater access to housing finance for consumers. To achieve this, HDFC
must expand its geographical presence. With the greater financial flex-
ibility provided by the long-term Bank loan, HDFC plans tentatively to
start five new full branches, four sub-branches, and 12 representative
offices under the  branches ;and  sub-branches.    HDFC will confirm its
annual branching plan to the Bank at the beginning of each fiscal year.
HDFC's Institutional Development
4.06        Decentralization - Key to the success of HDFC's branching is
the concurring effort in institutional and management development to
ensure that procedures for lending, resource mobilization and internal
audit are standardized throughout the network. Project technical assis-
tance supports training of about 200 staff, purchase of computers and
equipment, and preparation of procedure manuals, all required for the
new branches over the  next  three  years.    In addition, the technical
assistance component supports HDFC's development and full deployment of
more comprehencive computer control and internal audit systems, needed
with greater decentralization. An organizational study under the proj-
ect helps HDFC determine any appropriate modifications of regional mana-
gement and cost centers.
4.07        Financial Controls -     The project continues thte financial
covenants agreed between HDFC and IFC, including a debt to equity ratio
of 17.5, no liens being attached to assets and interest coverage of 1.2.
In addition, HDFC administrative costs will be limited to 1.5Z of out-
standing loans; this should be sufficient to allow for the planned
growth and branching while protecting HDFC's spread.



- 20 -
4.08        Self-Insurance - HDFC has well formulated lending procedures
and criteria. However, with growth of the loan portfolio, expansion
into new geographical areas and greater exposure to lower-income groups,
HDFC will be required to take precautions to ensure that arrears do not
rise. Arrears over 12 months will not exceed 0.4Z of HDFC's outstanding
loans. Also, in lieu of official mortgage insurance schemes, HDFC will
make provision for contingencies, equal to at least 0.4Z of outstanding
loans.
Sector Development
4.09        The loan will  be  structured  in  two tranches (paras 4.19-
4.20), conditional upon steps taken to help the regulatory framework
evolve in a manner which is both market-oriented and fiduciarily sound.
The following conditions will be appli*.'   o the tranches.
4.10        For the first  tranche,  GDI  nas already taken satisfactory
steps before negotiations to initiate r'.e sector enabling environment.
The Seventh Plan has accepted the concept of the National Housing Bank
(NHB) as a body established to help regulate housing finance institu-
tions. In its sector policy statement to the Bank, as a condition, for
appraisal of this project, GOI stated that NHB would help promote
market-oriented housing finance and resource mobilization for the sector
(para 1.22).. The current year's budget authorizes a Rs 100 crores
allocation for the establishment of NHB, and the NHB Act was passed by
Parliament during the winter session.
4.11        For the second tranche,  the  Bank  will satisfy itself that
the NHB is implementing specific proposals to: (a) regulate the finan-
cial standards, lending and operating procedures of heusing finance
institutions; and (b) promote resource mobilization instruments (such as
notice accounts and provident fund investments) to encourage market-
oriented intermediation in the housing finance sector (para 1.23).
4.12        In addition,  a  sitting  committee,7  which  represents the
diverse interests in the sector, will reach agreement and finalize
recommendations for establishing an insurance system for mortgages and
for adjudication of mortgage claims; and submit both proposals to the
Insurance  Department,  Ministry  of  Finance.    Within  six  months of
receiving the committee's proposals, GOI will inform the Bank of the
status of these  recommendations.    Once  the Government has officially
reviewed the recommendations,  they  can  be  released  to  the Bank for
comment.  Since the  Government  is  considering  a separate bill on the
adjudication of bank loan recoveries, it is recognized that any action
on the mortgage adjudication proposal would be delayed until the format
of the bank bill is determined.
7/ Includes representatives from relevant public agencies (GIC, HUDCO
and MUD) and from HDFC, representing market-oriented institutions.



- 21 -
C. Project Costs and Financing
4.13       The project is estimLted  to  cost about US$841 million: about
US$839 million for HDFC's mortgage lending program over a 3-1/2 year
period and US$2 million  for  technical  assistance.   Almost all project
funds would be expensed in Rupees; only about US$1.1 million of technlcal
assistance will be required in foreign exchange (about US$0.4 million for
foreign consultants and study trips abroad, and about US$0.7 million for
equipment and material). A World Bank loan of US$250 million equivalent
is to be lent directly to HDFC with the guarantee of India. A guarantee
fee of not more than 1/2Z will be charged to HDFC. Repayment will be in
20 years including five years' grace, with interest at the Bank's
standard variable rate. The Bank will cover about US$248.4 million, or
about 302, of HDFC's mortgage loan disbursements during the project
period, and about US$1.6 million or 95Z of the technical assistance
costs, including all of the foreign exchange requirement. HDFC will
finance the remaining US$591 of project costs through its regular
resource mobilization efforts (paras 2.14-2.16). Retroactive financing,
equivalent to US$25 million or 10Z of the World Bank loan, is available
from October 1987.
4.14       A summary of project costs  is  given in Table 4.1; details of
technical assistance costs are given in Annex 2.
Foreign Exchange Risk
4.15       As Ihe borrower, HDFC is  legally responsible for covering the
exchange risk of the Bank loan, and according to recent history and Bank
estimates of Indian foreign exchange risks, HDFC can cover this risk8 .
While  maintaining  HDFC's   current   margin  for  long-term  borrowings
(para 2.03), and considering the Bank's lending rate, the loan commitment
fee, and GOI's guarantee fee, there is about a 4Z spread directly
available to HDFC for th.e coverage.   This spread would allow for about a
4Z annual devaluation rate in the Rupee. Current financial projections
(see Annex 1) indieate that in FY 1991, the year of HDFC's maximum
exposure to the Bank loan,9 if the foreign exchange risk coverage of the
Bank loan required a two-fold increase in the interest spread to about
8Z, HDFC would cover this increase with profits after tax and dividend
payout.    However,  this  higher  coverage  would  reduce  the  FY  1991
contribution to retained earnings by about half. The cumulative effect
8/ By the end of 1991, the Bank loan would represent HDFC's only
exposure to foreign exchange risk; the $4.0 million IFC loan would
have been repaid, and all foreign exchange obligations under the AID
program were already traded, at the time of the original borrowings,
for Rupee loans through Indian banks and institutions (para 2.15).
9/  In FY 1991 the  Bank  loan  would represent 20Z of HDFC's outstanding
borrowings; this percentage would subsequently decrease relative to
the increasing size of the rest of HDFC's obligations denominated in
Rupees.



- 22 -
Table 4.1: Summary of HDFC Project Costs by Year
Fiscal Year                1988    1989   1990    1991   Total
(ending June 30)
COSTS (Rs Lacs in Current Prices)10
Housing Mortgage Loans   17312   29341  35074   29799  111526
Technical Assirtance         15      76     91       53     235
Total in Rupees Lacs              17327   29417  35165   29852  111761
Total in US$ Hillions             134.3   224.6  262.4   219.5  840.8
FINANCING (USS Million in Current Prices)
HDFC                       95.3   157.4  184.1   154.0   590.8
IBRD                       39.0    67.2   78.3    65.5   250.0
Total in USS Millions            134.3   224.6  262.4   219.5   840.8
10/ Contingencies and exchange rates have been applied according to Bank
guidelines.



- 23 -
The cumulative effect of continuing such high risk coverage for the Bank
loan over many years would be retarded growth in retained earnings and a
corresponding increase in the Debt/Equity ratio. To keep the Debt/Equity
ratio below 17.5 (it is currently about 14), HDFC could lose some
flexibility by possibly having to reduce current lending up te 8Z a year,
or to issue more equity than is currently planned (para 2.04). It should
be noted that very high devaluation rates would at some point affect
internal market rates, and would allow HDFC to adjust its own lending
rates accordingly.
4.16       Regardless of its ability to cover high risks, the question of
financing costs remains sensitive for HDFC given its need to protect its
interest spread and capacity  to  grow.    Since  none of its business is
handled in foreign exchange, HDFC feels it advisable to make financial
arrangements to cover the exchange risk of the Bank loan. The financial
management of HDFC already has experience in 'swapping' foreign loans.
HDFC is taking steps, satisfactory to the Bank, to protect itself from
the exchange risk. GOI will assist HDFC in trading the foreign exchange
obligation of the World Bank loan so that the effective interest rate for
the Bank loan to HDFC (including coverage of the foreign exchange risk,
GOI's guarantee fee and loan commitment fee) will not exceed HDFC's then
current long-term market borrowing rate.
! D. Procurement and Technical Assistance
4.17       Direct  project  procurement  relates  only  to  the Technical
Assistance component (see Table 4.2).   Only the contract for purchase of
computers (about US$0.7 million) is expected to be large enough to
warrant international competitive bidding.   Other contracts for material
and equipment  will  be  executed  locally.    Foreign  manufacturers are
adequately represented by local agents  and  suppliers.   For most of the
contracts, which are valued under US$50,000, HDFC will purchase the
material and equipment according to its own procurement procedures which
generally include competitive  bidding.    The  HDFC procedures have been
reviewed by the Bank and found to be satisfactory. All consultancies
will be contracted according to World Bank guidelines.
E. Disbursement of the World Bank Loan
4.18       The proposed Bank loan  of  US$250  million  is expected to be
fully committed to HDFC over a three-year disbursement period starting
around April 10, 1988.   Retroactive  financing extends the length of the
project period to three and  one-half  years.   The estimated schedule of
disbursements is given in Annex  3.    The project completion date is for
March 31, 1991, and the closing date for September 30, 1991. Because the
loan is mainly a line of credit for mortgages, the disbursement period is
substantially less than the Asia Region profile for urban projects (9
years) or for industrial development and finance projects (6 years).



- 24 -
Table 4.2: Procurement Method for the HDFC Project
Project Element            ICB    LCB   Other       N.A.        Total
Cost
-------- US$ million --------
HDFC Housing Mortgage Loans                               839.0       839.0
1                                          (248.4)    (248.4)
Technical Assistance             0.7            1.1                     1.8
(0.7)         (0.9)                   (1.6)
TOTAL                   0.7           1.1        839.0       840.8
(0.7)          0.9       (248.4)    (250.0)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the  respective amounts financed by the
Bank.
Disbursements will be made on the basis of: 30Z of HDFC's mortgage loan
disbursements; 10OZ of training and consultancy costs; 10OZ of foreign
and local (ex-factory cost) expenditures for equipment and material; and
602 of local expenditures, for equipment and material.
4.19       As indicated above (para 4.09),  the  loan will be made avail-
able for disbursement in two tranches based on conditions tied to sector
development. Up to US$150 million will be available under the first
tranche, and a further US$100 million under the second tranche. It
should be noted that, in order to eftect a reasonable level of forei'gn
exchange swap (paras 4.15-4.16), HDFC may accumulate its expenditures for
3-4 months before claiming reimbursement.
4.20       The tranche amounts are  consistent with HDFC's financial pro-
jections for the project period (see Annex 1) and the loan disbursement
criteria.   If  HDFC's  resource  mobilization  falls  below the expected
levels, the loan would take longer to disburse. However, if the tranche
conditions and project covenants are met, and HDFC's lending is larger
than projected, the loan could be drawn down faster than the anticipated
three year period. To allow for this possibility, the tranches are not
tied to a certain timeframe.    If  HDFC qualifies for more disbursements



- 25 -
than were available under the first tranche, the additional disbursements
would be made as soon as the second tranche conditions are met. In this
manner, flexibility can be introduced into the project timetable without
sacrificing the validity of the tranche conditions.
4.21       Through HDFC  mortgages,  the  loan  indirectly finances civil
works and goods contracts for new infrastructure and housing construction11
. Technical staff from HDFC evaluates each loan made to determine that
land and contract prices are consistent with market rates, and that
construction is handled  efficiently.    HDFC's  own loan and supervision
procedures are well defined and ensure that the disbursements, done in
stages according to progress in construction, are utilized only for the
intended purpose (para 2.09).   On  average, the HDFC mortgage covers 45S
of land and housing costs, and the Bank loan finances about 14? of these
costs. Since the housing component equals between 60-80? of total costs,
including an estimated 102 of duties and taxes, Bank funds can safely be
assumed to be utilized only for housing costs and not for land, or duties
and taxes.12
F. Audits and Prolect Monitoring
4.22       HDFC's financial accounting  system  and internal controls are
sufficient to monitor its operations and financial condition. The prepa-
ration of HDFC's yearly financial statements and professional audit are
completely satisfactory.   The  auditors  (S.B. Billimoria  and Co.) gave
HDFC an unqualified opinion in the FY 1987 report. HDFC's accounts and
financial statements will be audited annually by an independent auditor
satisfactory to the Bank, and that the audit will be submitted to the
Bank within six months of the end of each Fiscal Year. The auditor's
opinion will include certification that the Bank loan funds have been
used for the project work identified, and that the underlying files and
documents support the disbursement requests made through the Statements
of Expenditure.
4.23       The Bank will  monitor  project implementation through regular
supervision missions and quarterly reports prepared by HDFC and sent to
the Bank within one month of the end of each quarter. At the end of the
project period, HDFC will prepare a project completion report according
to Bank guidelines.
11/ Housing construction in World Bank urban projects in India has been
contracted through local competitive bidding.
12/ Based on urban project experience, housing construction in India
includes about 10? of costs for taxes and duties: 8? from local
contracts and 2? from foreign. Indirect foreign costs are notionally
about 10? of total housing cost with 25? duties and taxes.



- 26 -
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.01       The central project  benefit  is  support of a market-oriented
system for housing finance during a critical period of change in the
capital markets.   The  institutional  development  of  HDFC  as the lead
agency in the sector is expected to have long-term benefits on current
sector policies and the start-up of similar institutions. Importantly,
the development of sector policy is expected to cultivate a more effi-
cient and competitive financial system and to extend financial services
with lower risks and lower costs to a broader range of people. HDFC has
initiated a system whereby resources for housing can grow and savings can
be encouraged through financial intermediaries.   Instead of being syste-
matically rationed out of the formal financial system, households would
be given more opportunity to bid competitively for the most important
asset in  the  household  portfolio.    With  the  development  of a more
flexible national mortgage market, funds can be sought from a diversified
and more stable base, and be more easily directed to different areas of
demand.
5.02       The Bank loan finances  about  70,000  mortgages, or a maximum
302 of HDFC's mortgage lending program over 3-1/2 years. At least 50? of
the beneficiaries of the loan funds are households with lower than the
urban median income. During the project period, HDFC will significantly
expand its branching network and develop new mortgage instruments to make
housing finance more available to lower-income groups. Over the project
period, HDFC is,expected to continue to make at least a 232 return on its
equity and distribute to shareholders dividends equal to 16X on par.
5.03       According  to  other  Bank  housing  projects  in  India,  the
Economic Rate of Return (EROR), based on imputed rental values and sales
figures for urban middle-income housing, is between 20-30Z. Due to the
nationwide excess demand for housing finance, returns are expected to
remain high for a long period. As long as households can afford the debt
service, borrowing for the housing investment would be warranted. The
costs of borrowing, however, are sensitive to transaction costs and the
risks of long-term lending.   Such  activities are subject to significant
returns to scale and diversification that cannot be realized by small
informal lenders which now dominate housing lending. Hence, the develop-
ment of formal intermediaries, such as HDFC, in this sector, can permit
housing investments to be more affordable and the high returns to be
realized by more people.
B. Project Risks
5.04       HDFC's performance record and  procedures are well established
and there is little institutional risk associated with HDFC's ability to
disburse the proposed loan over a three-year period or to meet project
covenants.    Although  the  project  design  is  consistent  with policy



- 27 -
developments underway by GOI. there is some risk that implementation of
the tranche conditionr and the enabling environment could be delayed by
political considerations, provoked by a more significant market position
of housing finance, or by adverse economic conditions caused by a factor
such as a sharp rise in world interest rates. Indian financial history
indicates that reforms to improve maiket efficiency would be secondary to
the pursuit of  macroeconomic  stability.    A  resulting  retreat to re-
strictive regulations or to a higher degree of directed credit might
hamper HDFC's mobilization of sufficient resources. In this case, there
would be a slower than expected disbursement of the Bank loan, which is
directly tied to HDFC's capacity to raise funds.
VI. AGREEMFNTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01       The following assurances were received at negotiations:
Tranche Arrangements
(a)   The loan will  be  made  available  for  disbursement  in two
tranches based on conditions tied to sector development. The
condition for the first tranche, initiation of the enabling
environment for housing finance, has been met through the
creation of the NHB (para 4.10). For the second tranchet
- The Bank will satisfy itself that the NHB is implementing
specific proposals to:    (a)  regulate the financial stan-
dards, and lending and operating procedures of housing
finance institutions  and (b) promote resource mobilization
instruments (such as notice accounts and provident fund
investments) to encourage market-oriented intermediation in
the housing finance sector (para 4.11).
- In addition, a sitting committee (including representatives
of GIC, HUDCO, MUD and HDFC) will reach agreement and
finalize recommendations for establishing an insurance
syetem for mortgages and adjudication of mortgage claims;
and submit both proposals to the Insurance Department,
Ministry of Finance.   Within  six months of receiving the
committee's proposals, GOI will inform the Bank of the
status of these recommendations (para 4.12).
Project Beneficiaries
(b)   At least 50Z of the  loan proceeds utilized for mortgages will
benefit households with income below the urban median, cur-
rently estimated to be at least Rs 1,700 per month; this
figure would be adjusted annually according to the consumer
price index in India (para 4.04).



-28 -
(c)   HDFC vill finalize plans by June 1989, and furnish them to the
Bank,   to   broaden   lending   :o   lower-income   borrowers
(para 4.04).
HDFC Operations
(d)   HDFC's tentative plans  for  branching  and  expansion will be
finalized on an annual basis and confirmed to the Bank at the
beginning of each Fiscal Year (para 4.05).
HDFC's Finances
(e)   HDFC's debt/equity ratio vill not exceed 17.5:1 (para 4.07).
(f)   HDFC will maintain  an  interest  coverage  ratio  of at least
1.2:1 (para 4.07).
(g)   No liens will be allowed  to be attached against HDFC's assets
(para 4.07).
(h)   HDFC's administrative costs will  not exceed 1.52 of outstand-
ing loans (para 4.07).
(i)   Arrears over 12 months  will  not  exceed  0.4Z of HDFC's out-
standing loans (para 4.08).
(j)   HDFC will make provision for  contingencies, equal to at least
0.4Z of outstanding loans (para 4.08).
(k)   HDFC is taking  steps,  satisfactory  to  the Bank, to protect
itself from the foreign exchange risk of the loan (para 4.16).
Audit
(1)   HDFC's  accounts  and  financial  statements  will  be audited
annually by an indeperdent auditor satisfactory to the Bank,
and the audit will be submitted to the Bank within six months
of the end of each  Fiscal  Year.   The auditor's opinion will
include certification that the Bank loan funds have been used
for the project work identified, and that the underlying files
and documents support the disbursement requests made through
the StatementR of Expenditure (para 4.22).
6.02       Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project is suit-
able for a Bank Loan of US$250.0 million equivalent to the Housing Devel-
opment Finance Corporation, Ltd., to be guaranteed by India, acting by
its President.



INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
PROJECTED HDFC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Assumptions For Financial Statements
(Rs in lacs)
1986-87          1987-88         1988-89        -1989-90          1990-91
(Actuals)
Loan Approvals                      23751             30100           36160           39776            43754
Loan Disbursements                   17552            23082           29341           35074            39732
Average Rate of Interest:
Individual Loans               13.77%           13.70%           13.70%          13.69%          13.68Z
Corporate Loans                14.74%           14.75%           14.75%          14.75%          i4.75%
Incremental Deposits (Net)           8965              7000            8000            9000            11500
incremental Term Loans               6068              5500            6500            8000            12500
Incremental Bond Proceeds            1500              1500            2000            2500             3000
Incremental IBRD Loan                  -               5000            8800           10500             8900
Dividend Rate on Par                    16%              16%             16%              16%             16%
Additional Share Capital               979               21              -               -              iooo
n



INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
PROJECTED HDFC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Income Statements
(Rs in lacs)
1986-87          1987-88        1988-89         1989-90         1990-9l
(Actuals)
INCOME
Interest on Housing Loans               5874.8           8020.6         10736.5         13955.5         17527.1
Fees and OMier Charges                   544.3            775.5           931.1          1050.7          1172.9
Income from Investments                 1222.3           1547.4          1869.3          2418.4          3160.4
Lease Rentals                             45.0             174.6          409.9           713.5          1093.0
TOTAL INCOME                            7686.4           10518.2        13946.8         18138.1         22953.4              0
EXPENSES
Interest on Deposits                    3215.8            4204.6         5384.8          6093.0          7321.5
Interest on Term Loans                  1997.9           2627.7          3294.4          4105.5          5164.9
Interest on Bonds                        475.8            656.3           875.0          1125.0          1468.8
Interest on LBRD Loan                     -               156.3          1175.0          2381.3          3593.8
TOTAL INTEREST PAID                     5689.5            7644.9        10429.2         13704.8         17548.9
===am=         man====        Samoan=         =Ma.nm..
Gross Income                            1996.8           2873.4          3517.5          4433.3          5404.5
General Administrative Expenses          759.6            1028.7         1342.1          1707.2          2118.7
Pre-operacive Expenses Written off         5.0               5.0             5.0            5.0             5.0
Depreciation on Leased Assets             37.4             106.3          231.3           418.8           681.3
PROFITS BEFORE TAX                      1194.9           1733.4          1939.1          2302.3          2599.6
Income Tax Provision                     270.0            344.2           331.0           345.3           336.8
PROFIT AFTER TAX                         924.9           1389.3          1608.1          1957.0          2262.8    ' z
Retained Earhings                        738.1           1071.0          1288.1          1637.0          1862.8
Dividend                                 186.8            318.3           320.0           320.0           400.0    0o



INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
PROJECTED HDFC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Cash Flows
(Rs in lacs)
1986-87          1987-88          1988-89         1989-90          1990-91
(Actuals)
SOURCES
Profit Before Tax                       1194.9           1133.4           1939.1          2302.3           2599.6
Add:  Non-Cash Charges                     5.0               5.0             5.0              5.0             5.0
SUB TOTAL:                              1199.9           1738.4           1944.1          2307.3           2604.6
Net Increase in Deposits                8964.6           7000.0           8000.0          9000.0          11500.0
Net Increase in Term Loans              5757.0           4818.0           5816.0          7130.0           9788.6
Net Increase in Bonds                   1500.0           1500.0           2000.0          2500.0           3000.0
Net Increase in IBRD Loan                  0.0           5000.0           8800.0         10500.0           8900.0
Increase in Share Capital                978.8             21.3              0.0             0.0           1000.0
Repayment of Principal on
Housing Loans                        4310.7            6086.4          8555.4          11174.7          12771.1
TOTAL                                  22711.0          26164.1          35115.6         42611.6          49564.3
USES
Disbursements:  Housing Loans          17551.7          23081.9          29341.3         35073.6          39732.5
Increase in Net Fixed Assets             967.1           1000.0           1500.0          2000.0           2500.0
Net Increase in Investments             2144.3           1200.0           1400.0          1600.0           1800.0
Taxes                                    270.0            344.2            331.0           345.3            336.8
Dividend                                 186.8            318.3            320.0           320.0            400.0
TOTAL                                  21119.9          25944.4          32892.3         39338.9         44769.3
Increase/Decrease in
Net Current Assets                   1591.1             219.7          2223.3           3272.7          4795.0        w x
Opening Balance                         3556.0           5147.1           5366.8          7590.1          10862.8         -
Closing Balance                         5147.1           5366.8           7590.1         10862.8          15657.8
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
PROJECTED HDFC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Balance Sheets
(Rs in lacs)
1986-87          1987-88          1988-89          1989-90          1990-91
(Actuals)
LIABILITIES
Share Capital                          1978.8           2000.0            2000.0           2000.0           3000.0
Retained Earnings                      2331.2           3402.2           4690.3            6327.4           8190.2
NET WORTH                              4310.0           5402.2            6690.3           8327.4          11190.2
Deposits                              34221.6          41221.6           49221.6          58221.6          69721.6
IB6D Loan                                 0.0           5000.0           13800.0          24300.0          33200.0
Term Loans                            18447.1          23265.1           29081.1          36211.0          45999.6
Bonds                                  4500.0           6000.0            8000.0          10500.0          13500.0
TOTAL BORROWINGS                      57168.7          75486.7          100102.7         129232.6         162422.2
TOTAL                                 61478.7          80888.9          106793.0         137560.0         173611.4
ASSETS
Housing Loans                         48416.9          65412.3          86198.2          110097.4         137058.8
Investments                            6456.5           7656.5           9056.5           10656.5          12456.5
Net Fixed Assests                      1437.2           2437.2           3937.2            5937.2           8437.2
Net Current Assets                     5476.8           5876.8           8310.2           11822.9          16887.9
Less: Provision for
Contingencies                  (330.0)          (510.0)           (720.0)          (960.0)         (1230.0)
Others                                   21.3             16.3              11.3              6.3              1.3
TOTAL                                 61478.7          80888.9         106793.0          137560.0         173611.4      z
,,,,,,M  M... .. ---n-- '''='''=* _



INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
PROJECTED HDFC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Key Financial Ratios
1986-87         1987-88         1988-89         1989-90         1990-91
(Actuals)
Debt Equity Ratio                      13.3             14.0            15.0            15.5            14.5
Interest Coverage Ratio                 1.2              1.3             1.2             1.2            1.2
PAT/Average Net Worth (Z)              26.8             28.6            26.6           26.1            23.2
Gross Income/Average
Total Assets (Z)                 3.8              4.0             3.8             3.6             3.5
Total Income/Average
Total Assets                     14.6            14.8            14.9            14.9            14.8
Financial Expenses/Average
Total Assets                     10.8            10.7            11.1            11.2            11.3
Margin                                  3.8              4.1             3.8            3.7             3.5
Interest Income/Average
Loans Outstanding                14.1            14.1            14.2            14.2            14.2
Cost of Debt/Average Debt
Outstanding                     11.6             11.5            11.9            12.0            12.0
Spread                                  2.5              2.6             2.3            2.2             2.2         a' x
0



ANNEX 2
- 34 -                        Page I of 5
INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT AND COSTS
I.  HDFC INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
A. Operation and Management Systems
(a) Objectives: To ensure appropriate organizational structure and
consistent application of operational procedures in the face of
the growing size and complexity of operations.
(b) Activities: Review, compilation, and computerization of procedures and
guidelines for operational procedures, techniques, internal
controls, etc. Review of organizational structure to ensure
quality control and opportunities for innovation and staff
development.
(c)  Inputs and Costs:                  Total Rs 1,890,200.
(i)  Local consultants        : 12 man-months            Rs 240,000
(ii) Foreign Consultants
Manual Preparation       :  4 man-weeks in two trips
Internal Control Systems:   6 man-weeks in two trips
Organization Development:   3 man-weeks in one trip
Sub-total                           Rs 832,600
(iii) Overseas study trips by HDFC officers
Manual preparation       : 2 officers for 3 weeks
Internal Control Systems:  2    "          3  "
Organization Development:  1    "           3  "
Sub-total                      Rs 667,600
(iv) Others: Manual production, meetings, and miscellaneous.
Rs 150,000
B. Computerization
(a) Objectives: To expand automation to all branches and all functional
areas of operation.
(b) Activities:
-  Installation Lf additional micro/mini computers in all
branches;
-  Development and modification of application programs;
-  Modification of data formats for computer input;
-  Development of computer-based packages of operational manuals
and training;



ANNEX 2
- 35 -                        Page 2 of 5
(c)  Inputs and Cost               Total Rs 11,089,000
(i)  Local Consultants  : 25 man-months             Rs 500,000
(ii)  Foreign Consultant :  6 man-weeks in 2 trips
Rs 375,500
(Mii)  Overseas Study Trip:   I officer for 3 weeks
Rs 133,500
(iv)  Equipment and Supplies:  56 personal computers, peripherals,
com ercial software , new forms, etc.
Rs 10,080,000
(Estimated duties and taxes              Rs  1,023,400)
C. Training
(a) Objectives: ITo develop training curricula and organization antd train new
and existing staff in technical and human relations skills needed
for branch expansion, systems development, and computerization.
(b) Activities:
- Development of standardized training moduies using computers
and audio-visual equipments;
- Training of in-house trainers responsible for formal and on-
the-job training;
- In-house and external training of selected staff on specialized
topics.
(c)  Inputs and Costs                           Total   Rs 1,120,000
(i)  Local consultants:  18 man-months                       Rs 360,000
'(ii) Equipment and Supplies:
Projector and Synchronizer            1 set         Rs  25,000
TV/VCR                               10 sets        Rs 250,000
Audio-visual accessories
and supplies                      Lump Sum        Rs  25,000
Sub-total                                         Rs 295,000
(Estimated duties and taxes                         Rs  24,400)
(iii) Training Expenses:
Travel and Subsistence                              Rs 300,000
Rents, course fees, etc.                            Rs 160,000



ANNEX 2
- 36 -                         Page 3 of 5
D.  Others                        Total Cost        Rs 3,989,600
(a) Equipment for branches:
(i)  6 Fax machines for HQ and 5 major branches              Rs 1,200,000
(ii)  9 Vehicles for outreach programs                        Rs 1,350,000
(Estimated duties ard taxes                          Rs   470,500)
(b) Overseas Study Trips to study sector policy issues, including mortgage
insurance, mortgage adjudication, and innovative lending and
resource mobilization tools.
12 trips of 2 weeks duration each                       Rs 1,439,600
II. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO NEW INSTITUTIONS
HDFC will provide technical assistance to new housing finance
institutions. The three institutions listed below have been identified for
assistance, but other institutions being set up during the Project period
could also share in the development and training work   The total assistance
would include:
(i) Development of operating
systems and procedures:  (about 62 man-months)        Rs   994,000
(ii) Operational a'ssistance
during start-up        :  (about 33 man-months)       Rs   504,000
(iii)  Staff training            :  (about 36 man-months)      Rs   690,000
Total                               Rs 2,188,000



- 37 -                           ANNX 2
Page 4 of 5
INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
III. SUMfARY OF COSTS FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
VI  LY5f  1YUY  1Y9U  LYYL  -------total--------------
----  ----  ----  ----  Local Foreign Total Total
RsOOO RsOOO RsOOO Rs000  Rs000  RsOO  RsOOO US$000
I. HDFC - INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
A. Operation and Management Systems
a. Local consultancy        12    84    96    48    240       0    240    19
b. Foreign Consultancy       0   291   375   167    182    651    833    65
c. Overseas Study Trips   135   223   234    77        0    668    668    52
d. Miscellaneous             8    38    60    45    150       0    150    12
B. Computerization
a. Local consuit;ncy        25   175   200   100    500       0    500    39
b. Foreign Consultancy       0   131   169    75      84    292    375    29
c. Overseas Study Trips      0   134     0      0      0    134    134    10
d. Equipments & Supplles  464  3246  3710  1855   5434   3622   9274   719
C. Training
a. Local Consultancy        18   126   144    72    360       0    360    28
b. Equipments & Supplies   11    79    90    45    189       81    225    17
c. Training Expenses        23   161   184    92    460       0    460    36
D. Others
a. Vehicles & equipments  280   498   746   420   1456    624   1944   151
b. Overseas Study Trips      0   484   484   484       0   1451   1451   112
--- ~ ~ ~ ~ . .; ....        ....--- - -
Base Cost Subtotal I       975  5668  6491  3479   9055   7521  16613  1288
Physical contingency        98   567   649   348    906    752   1661   129
Prlce Contingency           32   528  1076   845   1353   1123   2481   141
Sub-Total  I              1105  6763  8216  4672  11313   9397  20755
(sub-total in US$000)       85   516   613   344    849    709   1558  1558
II.TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO NEW INSTITUTIONS
A. Housing Promotion Finance Corporation, Ltd.
a. Training                 29    88   103    73    293       0    293    23
b. Management Assistance   90   210   180   120    599        0    599    46
B. Gujarat Rural Housing Finance Corporation, Ltd.
a. Training                 33    55   77    55    221        0    221    17
b. Management Assistance   81   190   163   108    542        0    542    42
C. CANFIN Homes, Ltd.
a. Training                 18    62    62    35    176       0    176    14
b. Managemnt Assistance   54   107   107    89    357         0    357    27
~~~~~~~.. .........   ....   ...... ... ---- ... ----  ---... .... 
Base Cost Subtotal II      305   711   691   481   2188       0   2188   168
Physical contingency        30    71    69    48    219       0    219    17
Price Contingency           10    66   115   117    308       0    308    19
Sub-Total II               345   849   875   646   2715       0   2715
(sub-total in US$000)       27    65    65    48    204       0    204   204
GRAND TOTAL I + II
Base Cost*                1280  6379  7182  3960  11243   7521  18801  1456
Physical contingency       128   638   718   396   1124    752   1880   146
Prlce Contingency           42   594  1191   962   1660   1123   2789   160
I ----                  -- -   ----   ----  .....  ----  ....... ... ..._
Total Cost   in Rs 000   1450  7611  9091  5318  14028   9397  23470
US$ 000    111   581   678   391   1053    709   1762  1762
Note: * base cost as ot Uctober  I957i; includes management overnead and
excludes duties and taxes.  total duties and taxes are estimated to be
Rs 1,518,000 or 8.1% of total base cost.



ANNEX 2
- 38 -                          Page 5 of 5
Note: RATES FOR COST ESTIMATION for both institutional dbvelopent of HDFC
end technical assistance to new institutions.
(Beee cost as of October 1987, including duties and taxes)
(1) Consultancy
Rs 20,000 per man-month, local;
US$ 13,000 -            , foreign,
Rs  8,000  N    N (HDFC manager);
Rs  6,000          (HDFC officer).
(2) Subsistence
Rs  800 per day for local staff in India;
Rs 2,000 per day for expatriato consultant in Bombay;
US$ 150 per day abroad for HDFC staff.
(3) Travel including incidental expenses
Rs  1,000 per dometic travel, round trip;
US$ 2,200 per foreign round trip.
(4) Course fees and related expenses:
Rs  5,000 per course in India;
US$ 5,000 per course abroad.



ANNEX 3
- 39 -
INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION LIMITED PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
-------DISBURSEMENTS----
(lBRD) F1 cal Year and                          (in US$ million)
Quart r Ending                      Quarterly          Cumulative
1988       e
June 30, 1988                              25.0*               25.0
1989
September 30, 1988                         21.4                46.4
December 316 1988                          17.6                64.0
March 31, 1989                             18.2                82.2
June 30, 1989                              18.8               101.0
1990
September 30, 1989                         19.4               120.4
December 31, 1989                          20.1               140.5
March 31, 1990                             20.7               161.2
June 30, 1990                              21.3               182.5
1991
September 30, 1990                         21.9               204.4
December 31, 1990                          22.5               226.9
March 31, 1991                             23.1               250.0
*Includes retroactive financing of US$25.0 million.



ANflE 4
- 40 -
INDLA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT RNANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
DlgoUm d HDOCs OegoankoN> Shuck
,                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~No~ d Sat
1   h A h  1   ~~~~~36
- 1     9         } ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(A)                                                       crew          `16
B G I Act9 lYPICAL                                   17
4
rl    ntRmc       4
Irdituioal Rnno    5
R Tcl | 
M  |     l  h&F~~~~~~Deosh l    14
H I 1~~~~~~~
-F-t  R12
Human~~~~~~~Uti 0i-14:



-41-                           ANNEX 5
INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
PROFILE OF HOUSEHOLD INCOME DISTRIBUTION:
URBAN INDIA versus HDFC BORROWERS
1986-87
Houswhold      Urban          HDFC   HDFC Loan
Incom   Households   Borrowers       Volu
Rs/month    Cumul. I    Cunul. I    Cunul. I
upto ....                    -----        .....
400         1.3          4.5          3.1
800        12.9          9.4         6.4
1200        30.9         17.2        11.2
1600        47.2         31.4        20.3
1700        50.0         34.7        22.6
2000        61.0         44.9        29.5
2525        71.1         58.4        43.0
3350        82.4         77.9        63.6
5025        91.0         93.7        87.8
*Source: For urban India income distribution,
the estimate for 1976 by National Council of
Economic Research was updated by growth rate of
all India household income.
100 -
70 -      --                                          
40 -     -
20
0         12                  3         4         5
(Thousands)
Household Income. Rs/month
0 Wbon India o            HDFC Borrowers           0  HDFC Loan Volume



-42 -                        ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
HOUSlNG DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
PROFILE OF HDFC HOUSING LOANS
(as at June 30, 1987)*
A. APPROVED LOANS BY CATEGORY
Current Year          Cumulative
-- - - - - - - - - - - ...... .............. ....
No. of     Amount      No. of      Amount
Dwelling Rupees    %   Dwelling Rupees    %
Units   Crore          Units  Million
Individuals             35,906   182.6   76.9 151,385   680.6   80.2
Individual Borrowers  28,074   144.6   60.9 129,313   592.7   69.9
Group P:ojects            0    0.0    0.0  1,738        5.3    0.6
Line of Credit        7,832    38.0   16.0  20,289   82.6    9.7
Corporate Bodies         6,415   43.0   18.1 38,179   139.6   16.5
Construction Financing    3,702   11.9    5.0  8,470   27.9        3.3
....-   ------.   .  ... ...........  ..........  ...  .........    ......    ..............
46,023   237.5  100.0 198,034  848.1  100.0
Aa. DISBURSEMENT BY CATEGORY
Individuals             30,939   140.0   79.8 118.117   480.1   80.2
Individual Borrowers  25,473   119.1   67.9 103,241  433.8   72.5
Group Projects            0    0.0    0.0  1,739    4.1    0.7
Lin4 of Credit        5,466   20.9   11.9  13,137   42.2        7.1
Corporate Bodies         6,216   26.9   15.3 31,051   99.7   16.7
Construction Financing    3,268    8.5    4.8  5,820   18.7        3.1
... .    - - -  . . .   . . .  - - -    .....
I                       40,423   175.4  100.0 154,988   598.5  100.0
Note: * On the basis of cumulative approvals not of cancellations
unless noted otherwise



_43 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
B. DISTRIBUTION OF UNITS FINANCED BY SIZE**
Area  No. of         Total Amount   Avearge Loan
Sq. M. Units      %    Rs.crore   a    Rs. 000
------~~  ... .  -- - - - - -.-  - --            - -
up to 50  78,314    45.6%  225.4    30.3%          29,000
-80  51,883    30.2%  234.3    31.5%         45,000
-95  11,527     6.7%   69.1     9.3%          60,000
above 95  22,888    13.3%  173.8    23.4%          76,000
Not Classified   7,179     4.2%   41.6      5.6%         58,000
Total 171,791   100.0%    744   100.0%          43,000
C. Distribution of Loans by Region
(in Rs Crore)
Current                 Cumulative
Year       %
North    40.7    17.1%          118.1    13.9%
South    57.4    24.2%          231.6    27.3%
East    16.7     7.0%           53.2      6.3%
West   122.7    51.7%          445.1    52.5%
237.5   100.0%          848.0   100.0%
D. The Avearge Loan Profile
Individual      Corporate
Average                 unit                Loan            Loan
a. Loan per Unit        Rupees           45,000           37,000
b. Cost per Unit        Rupees           109,000          67,000
c. Loan/Cost Ratio                          0.41            0.54
d. Cost/Income Ratio                        3.59             n/a
e. Rate of Interest      %/year            13.64           14.84
f. Maturity             years               13.7             6.3
g. Age of Borrowers     years                 37             n/a
Note: ** Excludes undisursed Line-of-Credit; Corporate Loans are
classified by averages
Source: HDFC



- 44 -                       ANNEX 7
INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
DETAILS OF HDFC RESOURCE MOBILIZATION FOR FY 1987
(in Rs Lac)
Net Increase      % of
_During Year        Total
TERM   LOANS                  ...........  ...........
Scheduled Banks                1,891.4         8.5%
USAID Housing Guaranty
Program (Last Tranche)        3,000.0        13.5%
Life Insurance Co.             1,000.0         4.5%
General Insurance Co.
and Subsidiaries              (100.0)       -
International Finance Co.        (31.8)       -
Industrial Credit and
Investment Co. of India         (2.5)       -
Subtotal                       5,757.0        25.9%
BONDS             12.5% Notes     1,500.0         6.7%
DEPOSITS
Certificates of Deposit        8,769.4
Loan-Linked-Deposit               98.3
Home Savings Plan                 96.9
Subtotal                       8,964.6        40.3%
TOTAL BORROWING                  16,221.6        72.9%
SHARE CAPITAL
Paid-Up Equity Shares          1,000.0
Less: Call-in Arrears             21.3
Subtotal                         978.7         4.4%
RETAINED EARNINGS
Special Reserve                  440.0
General Reserve                  298.1
Capital Reserve
Subtotal                         738.1         3.3%
REPAYMENT OF HOUSING LOAN
PRINCIPAL                      4,310.7        19.4%
TOTAL RESOURCES                  22,249.2       100.Ct
Note : Entry in parentheses indicates net repayment.
Source: HDFC Annual Report FY 1987



- 45 -                       ANNEX 8
INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF COMPARATIVE TERMS OF DEPOSITS AT
HDFC, COMMERCIAL BANKS, AND NON-FINANCIAL CORPORATIONS
Period              Interest Rates % per annum              HDFC
----------------------------          Deposit
Months           Commercial    Corporate     HDFC    as at 4/30/87
From   Up to        Banks         Bodies                      Rs. Crore
... .......  ----.   ..........    -------       -------...... -------........ ................. ......
1  -  2          3 to 4            NA           6.0
2  -  3             4.0            NA           7.0
3  -  6             6.5            NA           9.0      )  38.4
6  - 12             8.0            NA           9.5          43.4
12  - 24             9.0          12.0          10.5          47.0
24  - 36            10.0          13.0          11.0           7.7
36  - 60              NA          14.0          11.5          16.0
60 or More            NA            NA          12.0         159.6
Note- HDFC offers educational and charitable trusts and institutions
additional interest of 0.5% p.a. to the above specified rates.
- Current regulation allows the maximum deposit rate of 14% p.a.
- NA indicates that the institution does not normally offer
deposits of the particular maturity.



- 46 -                       ANNEX 9
INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPKENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF COMPARATIVE TERKS OF HOUSING LOANS
IN THE INDIAN FORMAL SECTOR
Instctutions ana Loans      nzturlty *axL U  lntlor-st 
Rs. 000 % per yr
--  - - - - - - - -        .    ....... ....... .....................  ......  ------................. ...
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CO.
Individual Housing Loans
and Line of Credit         15 years        20    12.5
50    13.5
100    14.0
150    14.5
Home Savings Plan            12 years        60      8.5
Corporate Loan           3 to 7 years        NA     14.0
to  15.5
LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Mortgage Loan                15 years       150    13.5
(inc. home equity loans)                  Above     15.0
Home-ownership Policy        30 years
Loans (Single or Multi-     or until       250    13.0
Family Units)                  retirement
For home value < Is 75,000
and family income < Rs 25,000 p.a.         50    11.0.
Corporate or
Cooperative Societies                      5000    12.5
or  13.5
............ ....................................................
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT CO.       (Borrower' s
Konthly Incows
Maximum in Rs.)
Housing Loan through         15 to          700      7.0
state Housing Boards        22 years      1500      9.0
2500     12.5
above2500    13.5
Corporate or
Cooperative Societies                               15.0
...........................................................
COOPERATIVE HOUSING FINANCE SOCIETIES
Representative Loans        uoto
210 years       50    13.5
............................. ..............................
COMKERCIAL BANKS
Individual Housing            7 to           50    13.5
Loans      10 years  above  50   15.0
...... ................ _.. ... ............ ..............................
OTHER KFY RATES
General Lending Ceiling                             17.5
Prime Lending by Term Lenders
such as ICICI  IDBI                                 14.0
Deposit Rates            1 to 5 years                4 .0
to 13.5
source:   RDB  Re port on currency ana rinance, lY5-5b;
HDFC and LIC reports.



ANNEX 10
- 47 -
INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
DIagrom d Fownal Internediation In Indian Housing Finance Sector
COo             |                 Household Capoqotion Tx  PotWit Furi
HLK=     APEX                              ~~~~~~~~~~HDFC
HmdWV BOOrM  pdffxxy                        ~~~~~~HOFC
|~~~ \      v    l n n             C/FH
HouSeholdS & COqnaratlOn
World Bank - 4114 2



- 48 -                           ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA'S SECTOR POLICY STATEMENT
TO THE WORLD BANK
No.F.4/1/S6-FB.V
WTTW a
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3T4  wrft fo
P.V. Bhid.                           Government of India (Bharat Sarkar)
Deputy Secretary(FB)                 Ministry of Finance (Vitta Mantrailya)
Tel.. 3013183                Department of Economic Affairs (Arthik Cary Vbha)
;f fbPu'/ Neow Delhi  19t
Dear  t
Kindly find enclosed a note Indicating the existing
policy scenario ln tho Housing Finance Sector.
Wlth Lq
Yours
(P.   Bhlde)
Ms. Nina Shapiro
The World Bank



ANNEX 111
Page 2 of 3
With the onset of the Sevonth Flve Year Plan, the
Government has declared Its intention to combat the housing
problem in an effective manner. Several measures have recently
been Initiated to provido the pecossary boost to encourage housing
activity lh the country. As a mattor of fact the Prime Minister
while prosenting the Budget proposals for 1987-88 highlighted
that Housing is hlgh on our list of prioritios ( vido extract
from his Budget Speech of 1987-88 enclosed). Several new lnitLa-
tivew wero elaborated in tho Budget speech delivorod by the
Prime Minister. Implementation of thoso is being taken In several
ways, as indicated belows-
1.  The Government has formulated and circulated
for the flrst time a draft of a comprohonsive
National Housing Policy.
2.  Establishmbnt of  the  National  Housing  Bank
Is presently undor active consideration; NHB
will holp towards dovoloping a regulatory
framework As also creating an enabling environ-
ment to encourage housing finance institutions
to raise funds and engage In markot oriented
financing.  The  National  Housing  Bank  has
been  concelvod  as  a  flnancial  Institution.
It would also serve as a promotional agency
and seek to regulate the housing financo credit
sector. An initial *quilty capital of Rs.100
crores has beon indicated for allocation to
the NHB.



- 50                                   ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 3
3.  To reduce the credit risk that housing finance
companios  inherently  face  the  Govornment
has appointed an expert group to go Into
issues rerating to mortgage lnsuranco.
4.  A  National Commdssion  on  Urbanisation  has
recently  submitted  its  interim  report  and
its detailed report is expectod to be finalised
shortl y.
In the light of the above sconarlo It to clear that housing
finance and the houslng sector would continue to receive lmportanco
In tho immediate foreseeable future with a view to lmpleennting
programmes and strategies directed towards meting the housing
shortage.



ANNEX 12
- 51 -
INDIA
HOUSING FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1. HDFC's Annual Report FY 1986, FY 1987.
2. HDFC's Statement of Operating Policy.
3. India Housing Finance Review, The World Bank, February 1987 (Report
No. 6453-IN).
4. Copy of the National Housing Bank Act, GOI, 1987.
5. Report on the National Housing Bank--GOI High-Level Commission on Housing
Finance, 1987.
6. Draft National Housing Policy, Ministry of Urban Development, GOI,
January 1987.
7. Report on a Proposed Investment in HDFC in India, IFC, March 1978
(IFC/P-287).
8. Proposal for a New Institution for Housing Finance in Eastern India,
HDFC. March 1985.
9. HDFC Promotional Material and Sample Loan Applications.
10. Indian Newspaper Clippings on Housing Finance.



IURD 19996
A WACJ<ALt
PAKISTAN
P~~~       M)J ~~ urrAtlmh   
RAJASrHANV   o              now
OWL/RAT
ArA&AN                         C   5 HAR DNE H
0          PRAf        PROSH  JECT
mash Nk   MtBhLObFrbOBhweRANH
Vas                                 0   rposP Aiwi
t 9 t t SAY O
a-air      Pn
y0                                      BE jfNGAL
)   >r/ jl FlYd r;bOd Vlsh-kspst    I N D I A
0 a ~~~0  bn
)   >  )         sfHOUSING
\9  9 JA&VDRA ,DEVELOPMENT
AFtABfAN  o404          PR(ADSH            FINANCE
WAi    \+                           CORPORATION
\  D <              PROJECT
.                    HDEC BRANCH
W o j ~NETWORK
'- \~ C  
e.u  e- -won Torrggory
- _-  .*.   
b- _I- IM so
~uWiVb f  h                                   I &    _   ts\J U ,  .  .  . u
JANUARY lOSS



