Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11453
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2929-IN)
DECEMBER 21, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Name - Rupee (Rs)
US$1.0 = Rs 13.3
(At Appraisal, 1987)
US$1.0 = Rs 21.6
(At Closing, 1991)
Fiscal Year
of Housing Development Finance Corporation. Ltd.
Fiscal Year 1988 and earlier: July 1 - June 30
Fiscal Year 1989: July 1, 1988 - March 31, 1989
Fiscal Year 1990 and later: April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations
CHS         Cooperative Housing Society
GIC         General Insurance Corporation
GOI         Government of India
HDFC        Housing Development Finance Corporation, Limited
HFI         Housing Finance Institution (generic term)
HLA         Home Loan Account, a contractual savings scheme of NHB
HUDCO       Housing and Urban Development Corporation, Limited
KfW         Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau, Germany
LIC         Life Insurance Corporation
MOF         Ministry of Finance, GOI
MOUD        Ministry of Urban Development, GOI
NHB         National Housing Bank
RBI         Reserve Bank of India
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report (No. 7081-IN), dated February 12, 1988



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operationa Evaluation
December 21, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on India
Housing Development Finance Corporation Prolect (Loan 2929-IN)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report
on India - Housing Development Finance Corporation (HDFC) Project (Loan 2929-IN)"
prepared by the South Asia Regional Office with Part II contributed by the
Borrower.
HDFC implemented the project ahead of schedule in an efficient,
market-based manner. Unfortunately, the policy environment deteriorated with
increased distortions, heavy subsidies and restrictive regulations.
The Project Completion Report rates the project as a success and
sustainability as likely with appropriate qualifications regarding sector policy
changes and risks.
More progress on the regulatory and incentive framework is highly
desirable to give housing finance the place it deserves in the Indian financial
system.
The project will be audited.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents my not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2929-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate NO.v
Preface . . . . . . . .                               . . . . . . . . . . . . .   ii
Evaluation Summary.        ......... .  . . . . . . .  . . . ii
PART I : PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity  . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
B.    Background  . . . . . . . . .  . .. . .  . .  . .    . . . .*
C.    Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
D.    Project Design and Organization .  . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
E.    Project Implementation        . . .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
F.    Project Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
G.    Project Sustainability  . . .   .   .   . .   . .   . . .  . . . . . .  7
H.    Bank, Borrower, and Government Performance  . .  . .  . . . . .  8
I.    Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...    8
PART II : PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            9
Project Performance.. . . . . . . . . . . .10 . . .                        . . 10
Current Status and Sector Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Conclusion  . ...   .  .   . .  . .  . . .. .     .         - .0    *           13
PART III : STATISTICAL INFORMATION (TABLES)
1.    Related Projects  . . .                . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
2.    Project timetable . . . . .   .   . . .  . .  . . .  . . . . . . .16
3.    Cumulative Loan Disbursement  .   . . . .  . . . .  . . . .  .  .  16
4.    Project Costs and Financing . .  . . . .  . . . .  . . . .  .  .   17
5.    Analysis of HDFC's Lending, 1987-91 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
6.    HDFC: Cash Flow Summary, 1987-91  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
7.    HDFC: Summary Balance Sheets, 1987-91 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
8.    HDFC: Key Financial Ratios, 1987-91 . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . 21
9.    Status of Covenants   . . ...  ..          .... .       ...       . . o 22
10.   Use of Bank Resources
A.  Staff Input . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
B.  Missions .  ... ...           . . . . . . . . . . .         .   I. . 23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






-1-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2929-IN)
PREFACE
1.          This  is  the Project  Completion Report  (PCR)  for  the Housing
Development Finance Corporation Project, for which Loan 2929-IN in the amount of
US$250.0 million equivalent was approved on March 31,  1988.   The Housing
Development Finance Corporation was the borrower of the loan and the Government
of India, Guarantor. The loan was fully disbursed by February 13, 1991, seven
months ahead of the scheduled closing.
2.          This PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations
Division, Country Department II, South Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
3.          Preparation of  this  PCR was  started  during  the Bank's  final
supervision mission in December, 1991, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, Executive Project Summaries,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and
internal Bank memoranda.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2929-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.          Objectives.  The project, which was carried out during a period of
rapid transition in India's capital markets, aimed at (a) supporting continued
growth of the Housing Development Finance Corporation (HDFC) which was at the
time the only significant market-oriented housing finance institution in India,
and (b) helping to establish a sound framework for market-oriented housing
finance in India.  Specific objectives included: (a) the extension of HDFC's
lending to a wider geographical areas and to a broader group of middle and lower-
income beneficiaries; (b) the development of HDFC's institutional capacity and
its assistance to new housing finance institutions (HFIs); and (c) establishment
of a supportive and regulatory framework for HFIs.
2.          Implementation Experience. HDFC carried out the project competently
and efficiently. It nearly quadrupled its lending volume over the three-year
project period and increased the number of its branch offices from 15 to 25. It
also allowed longer maturities (up to 20 years) and graduated payment schedules
for an increasing portion of its loans, making them more affordable.  While
expanding its size and diversity, HDFC maintained the quality of its appraisal
and  collection  practices  and  increased  its  operating  efficiency  and
profitability. External borrowing, including not only the Bank loan but also
US$70 million borrowed from USAID and IFC during FY 1988-91, was the key to
HDFC's expansion during the period as its deposit mobilization decreased partly
due to new regulatory restrictions. Technical assistance and training under the
project helped HDFC decentralize and computerize its operations and establish a
high-calibre training facility not only for its own staff but also staff of other
HFIs. The project also assisted institutional development of three new HFIs
which subsequently grew rapidly.
3.          While HDFC continued its strong growth and development, the market
and regulatory environment deteriorated during the project period.  India's
growing macroeconomic difficulties led to increased financial and regulatory
constraints. The National Housing Bank (NHB), newly chartered around the time
the project started, responded to these difficulties as well as its mandates by
promoting refinancing and resource mobilization schemes involving heavy subsidies
and restrictive regulations.  By the time the project started, it remained
unclear whether NHB would develop as an apex lender of directed credit, as it
turned out, or as a regulator and promoter of market-oriented housing finance.
The project included several measures to induce NHB to take the latter course of
development and to ease financial and legal constraints for market-oriented HFIs.
These measures, however, were not effective, and only the project loan itself
provided some protection for HDFC against the impacts of the deteriorating sector
environment.



- iii-
4.          Results.  The project helped finance about 300,000 housing units,
much more than all other housing units and plots built with Bank financing in
India. While HDFC's loans have generally benefitted a broad clientele of urban
middle-income groups, the Bank's long-term loan allowed HDFC to offer more
affordable loan terms and thereby to reach more lower-middle income borrowers.
The project also helped increase the financial stability and operational
efficiency of HDFC, reinforcing the visible model of market-based housing finance
in the face of increasing financial and regulatory constraints during and after
the project. The number and size of HFIs have grown rapidly during the project.
However, their operations have come to be based less on market intermediation but
more on directed credits due to the macroeconomic,  financial and regulatory
constraints that grew during the project period.
5.          Sustainability.  There is little question that the direct benefits
of the project - the housing units built partly with the loan, the affordable
loan products, HDFC's stable financial structure, and organizational efficiency
of HDFC and other HFIs - will be sustained.  However, the growth of HDFC and
other HFIs will be limited in the short term by the macroeconomic conditions, and
in the long term by structural distortions such as restricted and uneven access
to market funds, regulated borrowing and lending rates, and weakness in mortgage
security. Directed credits and cross-subsidies which have grown more important
in HFIs' operations during the project period would not be sustainable,
especially as India's financial sector in general becomes more liberalized. It
would be essential, therefore, to ease the various distortions if the housing
finance system is to grow and meet the increasing demand, especially by the
rapidly growing urban middle-income groups.
6.          Findings and lessons learned.
(a)   The efficient manner in which HDFC implemented the project confirms
that competent, market-oriented housing finance institutions are
among the most efficient and sustainable channels of mobilizing and
allocating resources for housing, especially for middle-income
groups; but
(b)   Viability of market-oriented housing finance depend critically on
the policy environment. Specifically, restricted or uneven access
to funds, restrictions on borrowing and lending terms, and weak
mortgage security will limit the benefits and growth of housing
finance; and
(c)   Effective reform of policy framework requires well-defined sequence
of actions involving key policy agencies.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2929-IN)
PART I : PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Proiect Identity
Project Name:      Housing Development Finance Corporation Project
Loan Number:       2929-IN
RVP Unit:          Country Department II, South Asia Regional Office
Country:           India
Sector:            Infrastructure
Subsector:        Housing
B. Background
1.          Sector Context.   For most of post-Independence period,  India's
financial sector has served mainly as a mechanism for the Government to direct
resources to desired uses, through complex sets of regulations and institutions.
Since the late 1970s, steps were taken gradually to increase competition and
diversity in the financial market, including the permission for non-financial
companies to issue certificates of deposit (CDs) and bonds. By the late 19808,
however, the growing deficit of the Government and deteriorating competitive
position of nationalized banks were threatening the progress of liberalization.
2.          Under the directed credit system, housing was considered a low-
priority sector and was allocated a marginal amount of formal credit, which
financed less than 10% of housing investment. Most of the credit was channeled
to public housing authorities and Cooperative Housing Societies (CHSs) through
the Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO) and the state apex CHSs.
Heavily burdened with defaults and subsidies, this system was fiscally costly and
yet benefitted mostly middle- and upper-middle income groups. The cost limited
its growth and sustainability, and housing investment as a percentage of GNP
declined.
3.          On the other hand,  the Housing Development Finance Corporation
(HDFC), founded in 1977 with a diverse institutional sponsorship, succeeded in
establishing retail mortgage lending as a commercially viable business. It lent
long-term mortgage loans (up to 15 years) to middle income clientele at market
rates and collected repayments with few arrears, even though security of mortgage
collateral was relatively weak under the existing legal system. Though it did
not enjoy the subsidies and guarantees that were given to public sector financial
institutions, it was able to exploit capital market niches which were opening in
the process of financial liberalization. It also borrowed a substantial part of
its resources from IFC, one of the main equity participants, and USAID. As a
result, it grew by over 30% a year consistently so that its lending volume
rivaled HUDCO's by the late 1980s.
4.          The failure of the existing housing finance system prompted the
Government, starting from 1985, to consider establishing a National Housing Bank



-2-
(NHB) to lead an alternative system of housitig finance. While HDFC's success,
which was encouraging several new institutions to enter the market, clearly
influenced the policy deliberation, considerable support remained for
consolidating and expanding the directed credit system. The debates continued
during the project preparation and the NHB bill which passed the parliament in
late 1987 left room for NHB to take either direction. Although NHB's status as
a subsidiary of the Reserve Bank of India indicated an emphasis on regulatory
role, NHB's staffing and direction were still unspecified by the time the Board
approved the project.
5.          Bank Group Assistance for Housing.  Improving housing conditions has
been one of the major focuses of the Bank Group's assistance to India's urban
sector, with specific aims of enhancing affordability and mobilization of private
initiative and resources. These aims have been pursued mainly through sites and
services investments and slum upgrading, included in most urban development
projects. These projects introduced efficient physical design strategies and
long-term (15 year) mortgage financing through public sector agencies which were
responsible for construction and financing. However, these projects suffered
from various implementation problems and their impacts were limited.   HDFC
presented an efficient and progressive alternative for the Bank Group's housing
sector assistance. Furthermore, the uncertainty about the direction of NHB and
the housing finance sector in general at the time presented the Bank a good
opportunity to promote development of market-oriented housing finance.
C. Proiect Oblectives and Description
6.          Prolect Oblectives were to support (SAR para 4.01):
(a)   extension of HDFC's lending to a wider geographical area and to a
broader group of middle and lower-income beneficiaries;
(b)   further institutional development of HDFC's role as an innovator and
advocate of market-oriented finance, and as sector leader assisting
the entry and development of similar institutions;
(c)   sector development of a supportive regulatory framework to ensure
the financial integrity of housing finance institutions and their
capacity to mobilize resources at market rates.
7.          Prolect Description.  The project was to finance 30% of mortgage
loans disbursed by HDFC, provided that at least half of the Bank loan was relent
to households with incomes below urban median.   The project also included
technical assistance and training required for expansion of HDFC branch network,
management decentralization, computerization, and for its assistance to new HFIs
- Confine Homes, Housing Promotion Finance Co., and Gujarat Rural Housing Finance
Co. Financial and management performance standards required of HDFC under the
project included adequate debt-equity ratio (less than 17.5) and loan loss
provisions (more than 0.4% of outstanding loans). The second tranche of the Bank
loan or US$100 million was to be disbursed only after NHB had begun implementing
prudential regulation of HFIs and promoting market-oriented resource mobilization
instruments; and a committee (constituted in 1987) had made final recommendations
to the Ministry of Finance for establishing a mortgage insurance system and a
mechanism to facilitate adjudication of mortgage claims.



-3-
D. Proiedt btbkiTi &i4d Orfanization
8.          Critical in evaluating the project design and implementation is the
role of HDFC in India's housing finance sector as a whole. Up to 1988, HDFC was
virtually the only market-oriented housing finance institution in India.
Further, its operation was exemplary and its leadership role and demonstration
effect for the sector were apparent.   Hence, supporting HDFC was virtually
synonymous with supporting market-oriented housing finance, as opposed to old
directed credit system. The project was heavily underpinned by this perception,
and can be seen firstly as an endorsement of HDFC's record and directions it
represented and a support for its continued growth and innovation. The project,
which financed HDFC's operations only, was effective in this regard.
9.          Soon after the project  start,  however,  NHB began assuming  an
increasingly critical role in shaping the sector, largely in a direction contrary
to one supported by the project. At the time of project appraisal, the Bank
recognized the potential of such a development and tried to focus NHB's
attention, through disbursement conditions, toward establishing and safeguarding
an enabling environment for market-oriented housing finance.  However, these
provisions were vague and their interpretation and enforcement depended on the
willingness and authority of the Government of India (GOI) to direct NHB's
actions, giving the Bank a weak and indirect leverage. The same was true of the
other disbursement condition, which required an independent sitting committee to
take initial steps toward establishing mortgage insurance and adjudication
systems. This indirect and tentative approach severely limited the policy impact
of the project.
10.         It was difficult to involve NHB and the sitting committee more
directly and define their actions more specifically at the time of project
appraisal, October 1987, when the NHB bill was pending in the parliament and the
sitting committee had just been constituted.   Delaying  the appraisal or
negotiation several months until NHB started operations would have allowed the
Bank to establish a working relationship with NHB during its formative stage and
better define policy actions essential for sector development. Such a delay,
however, could have led to a wider scope and more complex arrangements, risking
the simplicity and a promise of quick disbursement. In retrospect, it appears
that the delay and some additional complexity would have been worthwhile and
essential to achieving sector development objectives of the project.
E. Proiect Implementation
1l.         Under the project, HDFC expanded its operations much faster than
projected. Its loan disbursements grew from Rs 1.8 billion in FY 1987 to Rs 6.7
billion in FY 1991, compared with the appraisal projection of Rs 4.0 billion.
Although the Rupee was devaluated faster than projected, the growth of HDFC's
exceeded the original projection in real terms and HDFC fully drew down the Bank
loan by February 1991, slightly ahead of schedule. The fast disbursement was in
itself an important accomplishment, as most of the Bank-financed projects in
India in general and urban and water sector, in particular, experienced long
implementation delays, contributing to a persistent gap between planned and
actual foreign savings.
12.         HDFC opened ten new branch offices during the project period,
compared with the nine planned. Technical assistance and training were carried



-4-
out generally as planned. The most important of these were the installation of
a minicomputer and establishment of the Housing Finance Training Center, which
began offering training courses not only for HDFC staff but others from housing
finance institutions within and outside India. Consultant studies and training
on organization and operations helped regional decentralization and the 1991
reorganization of the headquarters. HDFC also provided staff on deputation for
three new HFIs and provided training for other staff of these HFIs generally as
planned, although the Bank loan was not withdrawn for the services as they could
not be priced under the existing accounting system. Foreign consultants were not
employed under the project, though 13 person-weeks were planned at appraisal.
13.         The impressive growth of HDFC's  lending was not paralleled by
increases in domestic market resources.   In particular, net deposits, which
funded more than half of its loan disbursements in FY 1987, declined in absolute
terms during the project period and represented only a little over 102 of HDFC
lending in FY 1991.   Growth in other domestic borrowing also lagged behind
lending growth, so that all domestic market resources accounted for less than a
third of its lending during the project period. The rest consisted of housing
loan repayments, NHB refinancing which HDFC began to use from FY 1991, and most
importantly, foreign borrowing which amounted to more than a third of HDFC's
lending during the three years FY 1988-91.   In addition to the Bank loan
equivalent to 30% of its lending, HDFC had access to: the project's retroactive
financing provision during FY 1989; to US$30 million under the Housing Guaranty
program of US Agency for International Development (USAID) in FY 1990; DM 25
million line of credit from Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau (KfW) during FY 1991;
and to US$40 million loan from IFC in March, 1991.
14.         While the average deposit  interest,  about  11.91 per year, was
slightly lower than 12.5% interest on most of the other domestic and foreign
institutional loans (except the IFC loan which was swapped at 13.5%), the
transaction costs and the volatility made the deposits relatively unattractive.
Further, deposit mobilization was made more difficult by a 1989 NHB regulation
which barred HFIs from accepting deposits with maturities of less than two years,
designed by the Government to protect commercial banks from competition.
However, the fact that HDFC could mobilize nearly three times the net deposits
in FY 1992 as the year before indicates that the decrease in net deposits during
the project period was neither primarily due to the regulation nor was it a
reflection of any lasting reduction in HDFC's capacity to compete for domestic
market resources.   The Bank's decision to increase the loan amount from the
originally planned US$150 million and to allow retroactive financing as well as
the other foreign loans not foreseen by the Bank apparently allowed HDFC to
choose to replace deposit mobilization by the foreign funds to a substantial
extent. On the other hand, without the foreign borrowing or at least a large
part of it, HDFC would not have been able to sustain its growth during the
project period, when the capital market conditions worsened rapidly and domestic
resource mobilization in general became severely limited.
15.         During negotiations, it was agreed that HDFC would hedge foreign
exchange risks through a swap transaction. It was implied that, by a market swap
with a non-governmental entity, HDFC would avoid the unnecessary risk without
burdening the Government.   To enable the transaction, the Bank allowed the
Special Account balance to be used for swap.   However,  due apparently to
difficulty of arranging frequent and small swaps with a non-governmental entity,



-5-
HDFC eventually entered a swap agreement with the Government which essentially
amounted to an on-lending arrangement at 12.5Z per year, a rate higher than
normal in on-lending arrangements but consistent with the average cost of long-
term domestic funds to HDFC.
16.         The Loan Agreement (Schedule 1, para 2 (b)) specified, as conditions
of disbursing more than US$100 million for HDFC's mortgage loans (described as
"the second tranche" in the SAR), that the NHB should implement "specific
proposals to: (i) regulate financial standards and operating procedures of
housing finance institutions in India; and (ii) promote resource mobilization
instruments to encourage market-oriented intermediation in housing finance
sector". In June 1989, NHB issued a regulation governing operation and finance
of the housing finance companies, including the ban on shorter-term deposits
mentioned in para 14 above. It also established a refinancing scheme, with bi-
lateral support, under which NHB would provide credits at subsidized interest
rates to commercial banks, CHSs, and HFIs for certain types of housing, with
emphasis on low-income housing.   For resource mobilization, NHB had housing
designated as a priority sector for which 1.5% of incremental deposits with the
commercial banks were to be lent, one third of which to NHB and HUDCO. Seeing
the large branch networks of the commercial banks and CHSs as good channels for
fast expansion of the housing mortgage program under its guidance, NHB promoted
the Home Loan Account (HLA) scheme which offered tax concessions and a promise
of below-market rate mortgage loans through these institutions.
17.         It was apparent that NHB chose to follow the path toward expanding
the directed credit system for housing, with some modifications to be managed by
itself as a apex lender. rather than as a regulator and an advocate for a market-
oriented HFIs as the project tried to encourage.  Its actions therefore were
inconsistent with the intentions of the tranche conditions, especially regarding
the resource mobilization instrument (ii). However, the conditions were defined
vaguely enough to allow an argument that NHB's schemes complied at least with the
letters of the provision.   Therefore, after discussions with NHB and GOI to
reverse some of the actions of NHB or add more market-oriented measures failed,
the Bank allowed the disbursement to continue.   Once NHB established its
directions, even if the Bank could have won a legal argument and suspended
disbursement of the second tranche, it would not have served any purpose other
than weakening HDFC. In retrospect, therefore, neither the timing the tranche
conditions took effect nor the actions specified did not prove to be effective
in ensuring consistency of NHB's actions with the project's aims.
18.         Another second tranche condition was that "the Sitting Committee
(should] agree upon and submit to the Insurance Department of the Ministry of
Finance recommendations relating to establishment of a mortgage insurance system
and a system of adjudication for mortgage claims".  This, again, was a vague
provision which was followed only to the letter.   The sitting committee's
recommendations were not consistent with promoting prudent appraisal by the
lender nor with competitive insurance provision and did not specify realistic
steps to establish a special adjudication system for mortgage claims. For these
reasons, the Insurance Department ruled that "it is premature to implement the
recommendations". Later, in 1991, NHB did formulate a more realistic proposal
to enhance the security of mortgages covered under its refinancing scheme.



-6-
F.  Prolect Results
19.         The project directly helped finance about 300,000 housing units, much
more than all the housing units and plots constructed under ten other Bank-
financed projects in India. Most of them were built efficiently and utilized
immediately, unlike housing built by public authorities. The 20-year Bank loan
enabled HDFC offer more mortgage loans with longer terms (20 years versus 7 - 15
years) and graduated payment schedules that made repayment burdens lighter and
hence the loans more affordable. Loans with these features, negligible at the
start of the project, accounted for more than 20% of individual housing loans
(excluding construction loans and mortgage loans through corporations) by FY
1991.  It also began offering home extension and repair loans.  The expanded
branch network also shifted the relative distribution of HDFC's loans away from
the large cities with high cost and high incomes, especially Bombay, in favor of
smaller cities with lower incomes.
20.         As a result, the median household income of HDFC borrowers rose more
slowly than inflation over the project period, from Rs 2000 in 1987 to Rs 2700
in 1991, a 35% rise compared with a 44% increase in consumer prices. In order
to ensure benefits for lower-income groups, the project required that at least
one half of the Bank loan or 15% of total HDFC lending should be lent to
borrowers earning less than the median income of urban households, which was
estimated at Rs 1700 a month in 1987 and assumed to rise only at the rate of
inflation.  Even under this restrictive assumption, the number of below-median
income borrowers always exceeded one third of the total and the amount exceeded
25% of total loans sanctioned in each year of the project period. Despite the
increases of the maximum loan size from Rs 100,000 in 1987 to Rs 500,000 in 1991
and of the loan-to-value ratio, the average size of HDFC loans increased by less
than inflation, from about Rs 50,000 in FY 1987 to Rs 68,000 in FY 1991, and the
relative amount lent to borrowers with monthly household incomes of Rs 3000 or
more changed little despite inflation.
21.         HDFC increased the size and diversity of its lending without any
sacrifice in its portfolio quality or financial performance.  It met all the
financial and management standards required during the project period, increased
its efficiency (increasing its staff by about 25% while more than doubling
lending in real terms), increased profitability (25-33% on equity), and more than
doubled the equity capital. By borrowing long-term loans from the Bank and other
foreign sources, HDFC secured a close match between the terms of liabilities and
assets.   It avoided the foreign exchange and interest risks by swapping the
foreign loans for fixed-rate Rupee loans with the Government and a domestic
development finance institution.
22.         In short, HDFC used the Bank assistance to expand and improve its
operations beyond expectations. While these results by themselves and through
demonstration effects contributed substantially to development of market-oriented
housing finance, the project was not effective in influencing the development of
housing sector framework, in particular that of NHB. Mainly due to the general
credit tightening and partly due to sector-specific regulations, resource
mobilization by HFI is more restricted today than before the project. The only
additional resource available to HFIs today is the refinancing offered by NHB,
which accounted for about a quarter of HDFC lending in FY 1992 and about half for
other HFIs.   Mortgage lending rates are more rigidly regulated, with six
different rates compared with two before.  Loans smaller than a certain size



-7-
(supposedly for lower-income borrowers) carry rates lower than the market cost
of capital and hence can be funded only by the subsidized NHB refinancing scheme.
Only after firmly establishing the refinancing program, did NHB begin to take
initiatives more consistent with market-oriented housing finance, building
supervision capacity, promoting measures to enhance security of mortgage claims
and assisting securitization of HDFC's mortgage assets.
23.         Canf in Homes and the Gujarat Rural Housing Finance Co. which received
technical assistance from HDFC under the project, grew rapidly and disbursed a
combined total of Rs 1.7 billion in FY 1991. However, another HFI who similarly
benefitted, the Housing Promotion Finance Corporation, performed less well due
to the depressed economic conditions of its market region, north-east India.
HDFC's influence is evident in the similarity of operating procedures of these
institutions. At present, partly as a result of the demonstration effect of HDFC
and partly due to NHB's active promotion, there are at least six more new HFIs
in operation. The unexpectedly fast growth of the new HFIs, ironically, appears
to have lent some support for increased directed credit as they have not gained
access to any new market-oriented resource mobilization instruments or to foreign
borrowing.  Subsidized funding by commercial banks and especially the public
sector insurance companies of their fully-owned subsidiaries poses a threat to
a competitive mortgage market.
G. Prolect Sustainabilitv
24.         There is little doubt that the housing units financed under the
project would continue to provide sustained benefits and, given HDFC's past
record, that the mortgage loans will be recovered without any significant
arrears. The long-term Bank loan has also helped HDFC to stabilize its asset-
liability structure, thereby providing it with a secure basis for further growth
and innovation.   As HDFC has increased its organizational efficiency and
maintained its collection efficiency, it is likely to maintain its profitability
even as the growth slows. The affordable loan products, with longer terms and
graduated payments, that the project helped develop are likely to remain
available and also be adopted by other HFIs.
25.         However, it would be difficult for HDFC to sustain its fast growth,
30x-40X a year through 1991, primarily due to resource constraints. In fact, the
capital scarcity during 1991-92 caused a serious cyclical downturn of housing
finance, and HDFC, unable to replace foreign borrowing fully with domestic
resources, reduced its lending by about 6Z between FY 1991 and 1992. While its
growth is expected to resume as macroeconomic conditions improve, the growth of
HDFC and other HFIs is likely to be slower than during the 1980s, under the
increased limitations of the current housing finance framework. The large and
growing demand for housing finance, especially by the rapidly increasing urban
middle-income groups, can only be met by market-oriented housing finance. Such
as a system could also help expand and stabilize the financial market.
Developing such a system would require removal of various distortions in the
housing finance system, including the rigidly stratified and regulated lending
and borrowing rates, differences in access to capital and tax treatments between
HFI and other financial institutions and among different HFIs, weak prudential
regulatory framework, and weak mortgage security. While some of the necessary
reforms would concern India's capital market in general, many would be specific
to housing finance.



-8-
H. Performance of Bank, Borrower, and Government
26.         HDFC carried out its role as the borrower in a particularly active
and efficient manner, leading and taking full responsibility for the project
preparation and implementation. The Bank involved itself mainly in a supportive
role, more passive than under most other projects. The relationship has been
cooperative throughout preparation and implementation. The Government also was
strongly supportive, advocating the project, providing the loan guaranty and
acting as HDFC's partner in the foreign currency swap transaction. Under the
Guarantee Agreement for the project, the Government had a specific policy role
to play, to ensure that NHB and the sitting committee to take actions for sector
development that were specified as tranche conditions.  However, it does not
appear that the key agencies responsible for housing finance policy and
regulation, MOF Department of Banking and the Reserve Bank of India, were
sufficiently aware of the project itself and the policy development it tried to
promote. The Bank's consultation with these agencies were sporadic and informal
during project preparation and implementation. Instead, the Bank's interface
with the Government was limited largely to the usual channel, the Department of
Economic Affairs, a Ministry of Finance (MOF) agency responsible for external
financing, and the Ministry of Urban Development which had direct but limited
authority over NHB and HDFC.
27.         NHB, which held the main key to sector development, did not exist
during project preparation and did not have any role in carrying out the project
components other than fulfilling the required tranche conditions. While the Bank
opened policy dialogue with NHB soon after its establishment, it was not closely
tied with the project as was necessary. During the initial year or so when NHB
was establishing its operational direction and plan, different Bank staff
interacted separately with NHB and HDFC, emphasizing different areas of sector
development agenda.   This critical though temporary lack of cohesion in the
Bank's sector dialogue, added to a somewhat competitive relationship that
developed between HDFC and NHB, led to a difficulty for the Bank to establish an
effective and consistent position for policy dialogue with NHB.
I. Project Documentation and Data
28.         The project was a simple and straightforward one, but ambiguities
existed on two key definitions.   One, regarding the tranche conditions, was
discussed above. Another concerned the definition of HDFC's mortgage lending
eligible for Bank financing. A definition in Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement
limits it to that for residential units "meant for use by the applicant",
apparently excluding construction loans that could lead to double financing of
the same unit by the Bank. This restriction, which was not specified in the SAR,
was overlooked by HDFC and its auditor. However, this did not affect the project
implementation materially, as the total construction financing during the entire
project period amounted to less than two additional months of eligible HDFC
lending. The quarterly progress reports have been punctual and provided thorough
and timely information on project implementation; most of the other necessary
information not included in the progress reports was readily available from
HDFC's management information system.



-9-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2929-IN)
PART II : PROJECT REVIEW FROH THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction
1.          Until the initiation of the HDFC project in 1988, IBRD's involvement
in the housing sector in India was restricted to financing of urban development
projects which concentrated on public sector development of urban land,
infrastructure and provision of municipal services especially to the lower income
groups.  Though these projects were implemented effectively, the lack of an
adequate housing finance system obviously limited implementation of IBRD's
policies for the housing and housing finance sector (See SAR).
2.          Housing finance at the time was in the initial stages of development
and was mainly active through the directed credit system that helped the
government divert financial resources to the sector.  However, such a system
operated at below market rates of interest and implicit subsidies to the
beneficiaries. Loan recovery record of the primary lending agencies also left
a lot to be done. This situation largely occurred due to the dominance of the
public sector agencies as also an inadequate legal framework and regulatory
mechanism.
3.          Having seen the viability and success of a market related operation
through HDFC, a few housing finance institutions (HFIs) had been set up, either
by private developers or promoted by the commercial banks. Over a period, HDFC's
lending programs and loan underwriting techniques have become the industry norm
and its products have come to be increasingly cloned by its competitors.
However, in terms of lending volumes, HDFC has remained the largest originator
in the private sector. HDFC as part of its development role has co-promoted a
few of the HFIs and has also assisted the government's efforts in developing
policy issues on sound and practical lines.
4.          The HDFC project served as an ideal vehicle for the Bank to initiate
discussions with the Government of India on wide ranging policy issues on the
housing and housing finance sector. As a result, the objectives for the project
reflected IBRD's focus, not only on development of the institution, but also its
thinking on the policy issues and sectoral development. The government's concern
for the sector and its desire to bring about far-reaching changes and an orderly
development was a major reason in its whole hearted support for the project.
5.          Some of the major objectives for the project included:
(a)   supporting HDFC's activities  in a period of transition in the
capital markets to demonstrate the viability of market oriented
policies;



-10-
(b)   expanding the benefits of market oriented housing finance to a wider
geographical areas with a special emphasis on lending for middle and
lower income beneficiaries;
(c)   supporting the development of a regulatory framework to help in
establishing financial and operating standards for the industry and
promoting new resource mobilization products; and
(d)   finalizing recommendations  for  insurance  of mortgages  and for
adjudication of mortgage claims.
Prolect Performance
6.          The IBRD loan and HDFC's operational and financial performance during
the project period have demonstrated the success of market oriented housing
finance in India.  It would be appropriate to mention that HDFC's success in
structuring the loan in its final form had a major impact on the viability of the
project.    These mechanisms  could be  adapted  in the  future  through swap
arrangements which would meet the foreign exchange requirement of projects which,
in turn, could lend surplus rupee resources to HDFC. The long term support has
enabled HDFC in experimenting with new resource products aimed at creating niches
in the financial markets. Various bond issues, restructuring of interest rates
on deposits to match market expectations and an initiative at securing the
housing loan portfolio have been made possible due to the back up support
available in the form of the IBRD loan.   Subsequent to the IBRD loan, HDFC
approached the equity market in early 1991 with an offering of Rs. 450 million.
The issue was well received by the market in spite of depressed conditions. HDFC
perceives the issue as an acceptance by the market of HDFC as a solid investment
opportunity given its financial performance.
7.          One of the requirements of IBRD was that the loan would finance
HDFC's lending only to the extent of 30% whereas the balance of 70% was to be
funded  through  domestic  resource  mobilization.    HDFC  has met with  this
requirement by intensifying its household deposit mobilization and, as mentioned
earlier, through bond issues, domestic term loans and ongoing deposit schemes.
HDFC aims to expand its retail deposit base by activating an agents network
throughout the country. Consequent to HDFC's success in home lending at market
rates of interest and deposit mobilization offering an alternative investment
option in terms of safety and yield, over 250 companies have been registered as
housing finance companies.   Of these, 16 companies have been approved by the
National Housing Bank (NHB) for acceptance of public deposits and its own
refinance program.   The lending rates of interest for the HFCs, now, also
incorporate an element of cross subsidy across income ranges as reflected by
lower rates for the smaller loans.
8.          HDFC's lending activities have increased manifold during the project
period as evidenced by approvals of housing loans which increased to Rs. 6138
million in 1991 as compared to Rs. 2375 million in 1987. Disbursements during
the same period increased from Rs. 1755 million to Rs. 6685 million. The branch
network expanded from 15 to 25 and a greater number of second level towns and
cities were covered under the outreach program.   As a result, housing loan
approvals (in terms of number of units) increased from 46023 in 1987 to 115906
in 1991. Total assets have gone up from Rs. 6148 million in March 1987 to Rs.
20092 million in March 1991.



-11-
9.          During the project period,  HDFC increased the maximum term on
individual housing loans to 20 years and also launched new lending instruments.
These included the Step Up Repayment Facility (SURF). Telescopic Loan Plan (TLP)
and the Home Extension Loans (HEL).   These measures have been specifically
targeted at meeting the needs of the low income borrowers by softening the
repayment liability in the initial years. Moreover, the SURF and TLP also give
weighage to the expected increase in the applicant's income in the future.
During the project period, over 30% of the disbursements were to beneficiaries
below the median income as compared to the project requirement of 15%.
10.         On the other hand, the average loan size has increased consistently,
which could be explained by the following factors:
(a)   A characteristic change in the property market wherein documented
prices relate more closely with actual transaction costs resulting
in higher loan eligibility;
(b)   Maximum loan limits increased from Rs.  150,000 to Rs. 500,000
resulting in higher loans for the higher income groups, whose
earlier eligibility was restricted due to the limits and not
repayment capacity;
(c)   Introduction of new products such as SURF and TLP offering higher
loans and longer repayment terms;
(d)   At  the  same  time,  property  costs  have  gone  up  without  a
corresponding increase in the average area of the units.
11.         The National Housing Bank (NHB) has become operative since 1988 and
currently functions in an apex regulatory and promotional role.  The NHB has
formulated guidelines for promotion of housing finance companies, acceptance of
public deposits, refinance program, retail deposit mobilization, etc. Besides
approving companies for the purposes of refinance, NHB also has commenced regular
supervision of the assisted companies, wherein HDFC's operations were subject to
an inspection in the current year.
12.         Besides the Home Loan Account (HLA) scheme, a retail deposit scheme,
implemented through the commercial banks and the housing finance companies, NHB
has raised funds through bond issues and the USAID housing guaranty program. In
an effort to move towards market borrowing, the NHB is interested in promoting
a mutual fund and raising funds from the provident and pension funds. It has
also taken an initiative in suggesting simplification of the legal framework with
a view to speedy foreclosure of defaulting loans to facilitate initiation of a
secondary mortgage market.
13.         The activities of the NHB, 'so far, have concentrated on funding
programs, and, of late, on recommendations to the government in developing the
sector in an orderly and viable manner. It is to be expected that as the NHB
moves to a market oriented resource mobilization strategy, the availability and
the cost of funds would more closely relate to market realities. This in turn,
would have a direct impact on the functioning of a few housing finance
institutions which depend on NHB refinance for a major part of their funding
requirements.



-12-
14.         In 1986, the government set up a committee comprising senior members
of the government and the housing finance system to draft necessary legislation
for putting in effect a system of mortgage insurance.   The report of the
committee was submitted in 1987.   The government has not yet taken a final
decision in implementing the mortgage insurance system since speedy and effective
foreclosure is seen by NHB/GOI as a pre-requisite for the success of this system
and as mentioned earlier, has now suggested changes in the foreclosure laws.
15.         It needs to be appreciated that the Indian housing finance system is
still in a stage of early development and policy initiatives would be implemented
only after a detailed consideration of all aspects. Hence, the performance of
the project should not be considered only in terms of absolute achievement of the
objectives but considering the process which has already been set in motion.
Framing and implementation of policies and strategies should be analyzed as an
ongoing process rather than just a desired end result.
Current Status and Sector Development
16.         In the last few months, the Indian financial system has witnessed
volatile interest rates, partly due to scarcity of resources at times and partly
due to the liberalization commenced by the government in the financial system.
Inter bank call money rate, which was earlier subject to a ceiling of 10%, was
completely deregulated and a partial deregulation was brought about in the
commercial bank lending rates subject to a minimum lending rate. Banks can now
charge interest rates freely above the prescribed minimum.
17.         On the other hand,  the Reserve Bank of India has consistently
followed a tight monetary policy and regularly revised the minimum lending rates
(from 15% in September 1990 to 20% in October 1991). The upward revisions in the
minimum lending rates has to some extent limited the resources available to the
corporate sector.
18.         It is at such a time that the housing finance system is sought to be
integrated into the financial system.   HFIs which have to rely on market
mechanisms to raise resources for lending would be adversely affected in the
short run.  Moreover, given the inverted interest rate curve, investors have
moved from the longer end of the market to the shorter term investments. This
has created a paucity of matching long term resources for HFIs. Even though HFIs
may be willing to borrow short, affordability of the funds has become a major
criteria.  With the lending rates on housing loans going up in tune with the
general rates, demand for individual loans could decline. These developments
however, have not considerably affected HFIs promoted by the insurance companies
which are funded by the parent companies at below market rates of interest.
19.         Considering HDFC's performance during the project period, which
reflect its inherent potential, the current situation in the financial markets
and the expectation of HDFC meeting its past commitments would require continued
long term funding support.  Though HDFC has now embarked on an intense campaign
for garnering retail deposits and for securing its housing loan portfolio,
affordability on domestic resources and non availability of external sources
would remain a major area of concern. The proposal for securitization of housing
loans and issue of mortgage backed securities is at an advanced stage of
implementation.   However,  considering the unfamiliarity of the market and



-13-
investors with an instrument of this nature, acceptability may involve a
considerable time lag.
Conclusion
20.         The Bank's focus through this project was to gain acceptance in the
Indian markets  for a market driven housing finance mechanism.   Given the
commonality in the Bank's and HDFC's approach, the Bank was supportive of the
project right from its conception in early 1987. The government also evinced a
keen interest in the project given its policy objective of fostering an orderly
development of the system and its beneficial fallout for the sector in general.
21.         The project was conceived as a three year project in which time it
was expected to place HDFC in a position that would afford it a greater
acceptability and access in the capital markets.   However, given the recent
developments in the money market and the capital market it is difficult for HDFC
to have an access to larger resources at an affordable cost. HDFC feels that a
three year project period is not conducive to a sustained institutional
development program. A longer term perspective would be much more viable for the
sector and the institution, as is evident in the Bank's approach to the
Development Finance institutions (DFIs).
22.         The development of any sector necessitates the presence of strong and
viable institutions and an enabling policy framework. Policy initiatives cannot
be sustained in the face of slackening implementation and it is for this purpose
that the Bank should consider continued support for specific institutions. HDFC,
during the project period, has witnessed a growth in approvals at an average rate
of 36% per annum. Though HDFC may consciously prune its growth targets, it would
have to honor its commitments on past approvals.  It is, hence, essential that
strong institutions be in place to keep up the pace of sectoral development.
23.         HDFC enjoyed a smooth working relationship with the Bank throughout
the project period given that there was no conflict of objectives and approach
between the two institutions.   More important, it resulted in an effective
implementation of the project.



-14-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2929-IN)
PART III : STATISTICAL INFORMATION



-15-
Table 1. Related Prolects
(Multi-component Urban Development Projects in India
with Focus on Shelter)
Loan/Credit
and Amount             Approval - Closing
Project Title                      (US$ Million)            (Bank Fiscal Year)
First  Calcutta  Urban       Cr.  427-IN: US$35.0           1973-79
Development
First   Madras   Urban       Cr.  687-IN: US$24.0           1977-83
Development
Second Calcutta Urban        Cr.  756-IN: US$87.0           1977-84
Development
Second  Madras  Urban        Cr. 1082-IN: US$42.0           1980-88
Development
K a n p u r    U r b a n      Cr. 1185-IN: US$25.0          1982-87
Development
Madhya  Pradesh  Urban        Ln. 2329-IN: US$24.1          1983-91
Development
Third  Calcutta  Urban       Cr. 1369-IN: US$147.0          1983-92
Development
B o m b a y    U r b a n      Cr. 1544-IN: US$138.0         1985 (on-going)
Development
Uttar  Pradesh  Urban         Cr. 1780-IN: US$130.0         1987 (on-going)
Development                   Ln. 2797-IN: US$20.0
Tamil    Nadu    Urban        Cr. 1923-IN: US$300.2         1988 (on-going)
Development



-16-
Table 2. Prolect Timetable
STEPS                                            DATES
PLANNED      REVISED       ACTUAL
Identification (EPS)                                         Jun 26, 86
Preparation Mission                  ----       ----         Mar  1, 87
Second EPS                         Apr   87                  Apr 29, 87
Preappraisal Mission               Jun   87                   Jun 16, 87
Final EPS                          Jun   87    Aug  87        Sep  4, 87
Appraisal Mission                  Aug   87    Sep  87        Oct 10, 87
Loan Negotiations                  Feb   88    Feb  88        Feb  2, 88
Board Approval                     Apr   88    Apr  88       Mar 31, 88
Loan Signing                       May   88    May  88       Apr 21, 88
Loan Effectiveness                 May   88    May  88       May 18, 88
Loan Closing                       Sep 30, 91                 Feb 13, 91
Table 3. Cumulative Loan Disbursement
(US$ Million)
Original    Actual              Z
(SAR)                        of
Up to            Estimate                       Total
June 30, 1988        25.0          0.0          0.0%
Sep 30, 1988         46.4         38.2         15.2
Dec 31, 1988         64.0         54.0         21.6
Mar 31, 1989         82.2         83.9         33.2
Jun 30, 1989        101.0        103.3         41.3
Sep 30, 1989        120.4        125.1         50.4
Dec 31, 1989        140.5        142.8         56.3
Mar 31, 1990        161.2        150.4         60.2
Jun 30, 1990        182.5        195.5         78.2
Sep 30, 1990       204.4         215.9         86.4
Dec 31, 1990        226.9        236.7         94.7
Mar 31, 1991        250.0        250.0        100.0%



-17-
Table 4. Project Cost and Financing
Category          SAR      Actual    Bank        SAR      Actual    Bank
Estimate             Loan      Estimate              Loan
----- US$ million ------    ------ Rs million -------
Mortgage Loans   839.0    849.8    248.4         11,153   14,054    4,108
Consultancy &
Training       0.7      0.4       0.4           9         6         6
Equipment           1.1       1.2       1.2          14        18       18
Total    840.8    851.4    250.0        11,176   14,078    4,132
Table 5. Analysis of HDFC's Lending
FY 1987-91
A. Disbursements, Rs million
Increase
FY     1987      1988      1989(s)  1990     1991   %/Year
Individual Loans         1,191    1,507    1,383    2,653    3,487        33.2%
Line of Credit (b)       210       272       391       958    1,497      68.9%
Corporate Housing Cc    269        368       479       809    1,112      46.0%
Construction Finance        85      206       300       473       589     67.6%
TOTAL                    1.755    2,353    2,553    4,893    6.685        38.9%
B. Approvals, Rs million
Increase
FY     1987      1988      1989     1990      1991   %/Year
Ordinary Loans           1,446    1,879    1,602    2,373    2,901        20.4%
Graduated Payment           NA       NA        NA       523       693     32.5%
Telescopic Plan Cd)       NA        NA        NA       274      425      55.1%
Home Extension &
Improvement        NA        NA       NA        58       198    239.3%
Line of Credit             380      468       751    1,492    1,840       52.2%
Corporate Housing          430      467       564       762    1,283      33.8%
Construction Finance       119      236       416       549       799     66.2%
TOTAL                   2,375    3,050    3.333    6.030    8,138         38.9%
Note: (a)   Fiscal 1989 was a 9-month period, from July 1, 1988 to March 31,
1989.
(b)   Individual home ownership loans provided on the basis of Line of
Credit pre-approved through employers.
(c)   Loans to corporations for construction of employee housing.
(d)   Repayment plan with graduated payment and flexible terms up to 20
years.



-18-
Table 5 Continued
C. Approvals, Number of Units
Increase
FY     1987      1988      1989      1990     1991   %/Year
Ordinary Loans         28,074   31,691   23,408   33,908   34,775          5.9%
Graduated Payment           NA       NA        NA    5,312    6,222        17.1%
Telescopic Plan             NA       NA        NA    2,535    3,629       43.2%
Home Extension &
Improvement        NA        NA       NA    1,187    3,709    212.5%
Line of Credit           7,832    6,819   13,084   35,445   29,575        42.5%
Corporate Housing       6,415    9,271    5,878    9,040   17,596         30.9%
Construction Finance   3,702    7,375    8,002    8,534   20,400          57.6%
TOTAL                  46,023   55,156   50,372   95,961  115,906         27.9%
D. Approvals by Borrower's Household Income
FY     1987      1988      1989     1990      1991
Total Applicable Loans ()
Number of Units   34,489   31,301   29,286   51,982   65,931
Loans, Rs Million    1,876    1,800    2,166    3,990    5,499
Urban Median Income
Rs/Month    1,700    1,860    2,000    2,110    2,450
Borrowers below Median Income
Number of Units   11,968   13,023   10,182   19,282   27,926
Z of Total      34.7%    41.6%    34.8%    37.1%    42.4%
Loans, Re Million       424       465       578       969    1,623
Z of Total      22.6%    25.8%    26.7%    24.3%    29.5%
Note: (e)   Incomes of borrowers classified only for the individual loans and
corporate loans, not including the Line of Credit program or the
construction financing.



-19-
Table 6. HDFC: Cash Flow Summary, FY 1987-91
1987     1988      1989      1990      1991
SOURCES                        -----    -----    -----    -----    -----
Operating Income               120       171       172      307       388
Non-Cash Charges                27        37        35       83       118
Less: Taxes                     27        40        27       60        90
Share Capital and
Premium                 98         2         0         0      448
Net Internal Funds               217       170       180      330       864
Net Increases in:
Certificate of Deposit         877       801      549       383       622
Other Deposits                  19        21        38       75       121
Total Deposits                 896       822      587       458       743
Bonds                          150       400       147      434       374
Term Loans from:
Commercial Banks               207       311      328       402       235
NHB                              0         0         0        0    1,587
Other Domestic                 100       115      200       281       426
Total Domestic Loans           307       426      528       683    2,248
Total Domestic Borrowing       1,353    1,648    1,262    1,576    3,334
Foreign Loans from:
IBRD                             0         0    1,250    1,113    1,769
IFC                              0         5         0        0       725
USAID                          300       180         0      490         0
KfW                              0         0         0        0        20
Total Foreign Loans              300       185    1,250    1,603    2,514
Repayment of Housing Loans       431       646       652    1,124    1,633
Total. All Sources             2.301    2.649    3.344    4.633    8.375
USES
Housing Loans Disbursed        1,755    2,353    2,552    4,893    6,685
Shelter Assistance Fund            0         0         1         3        4
Repayment of:
Domestic Term Loans             28        73        67       83       320
Foreign Loans                    3         3         3        5         5
Increases in:
Fixed Assets                   108        68        39      146        97
Investment and Other           389       117      654      -537    1,207
Current Assets
Dividend                          19        34        28        40       57
TOTAL USES                     2.301    2.649    3.344    4.633    8,375



-20-
Table 7. HDFC: Summary Balance Sheets, FY 1987-1991
at 6/30 at 6/30 at 3/31 at 3/31 at 3/31   Growth
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991   %/Year
ASSETS                -----                  - ------
Housing Loans         4,842   6,549   8,449  12,218  17,269    40.4%
Investments             646      779   1,354   1,141   1,447    24.0%
Net Current Assets    548        531      610      286   1,187    22.9%
Net Fixed Assets        144      201      225      335     387    30.2%
Less Provision for
Contingencies        33      58       76      124      197    61.0%
Total Assets          6,146   8,002  10,562  13,856  20,093    37.1%
SHARE HOLDERS' EQUITY
Share Capital           198      200      200     200      447    24.3%
Retained Earnings       233      330      446      650   1,086    50.8%
Total Equity           431      530      646     850   1,534    40.3%
BORROWING
Deposits              3,422   4,244   4,832   5,289   6,032    16.3%
Bonds                   450      850      997   1,431   1,805    44.8%
Term Loans from
Commercial Banks       627      903   1,197   1,536   1,679    30.0%
NHB                      0        0        0        0   1,577      N/A
Other Domestic         366      443      611     872   1,079    36.6%
Institutions      -----   -----   -----          -----   -----
Subtotal               994   1,346   1,808   2,408   4,335    49.0%
Foreign Loans from:
IBRD                                  1,250   2,363   4,133
IFC                     11       13       10        5     725
USAID                  840   1,020   1,020   1,510   1,510
KfW                                                        20
Subtotal               851   1,033   2,280   3,878   6,388    72.5%
Total Debt            5,717   7,473   9.916  13,006  18,559    36.9%



-21-
Table 8. HDFC: Key Financial Ratios, FY 1987-91
Ratio                         Covenant*  1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Debt:Equity                     <17.5    13.3   14.1   15.4   15.3   12.1
Interest Coverage               >1.20    1.26   1.26   1.25   1.27   1.25
Administrative Costs
to total loans outstanding  <1.5%    1.11%  0.93%  0.90%  0.76%  0.73%
Arrears 1 year or older
to total loans outstanding  <0.4%    0.01%  0.01%  0.01%  0.04%  0.06%
Contingency Provision
to total loans outstanding  >0.4%    0.68%  0.90%  0.89%  1.01%  1.14%
After-Tax Income
To Net Worth                     N/A   26.8%  27.3%  32.9%  33.1%  25.0%
Average Cost of Debt Outstanding N/A   11.6%  12.0%  12.5%  12.7%  12.7%
Average Interest Income
on Housing Loans Outstanding   N/A   14.1%  14.0%  14.1%  14.1%  14.1%
Note:
* Minimum or maximum values required under the Loan Agreement.



-22-
Table 9. STATUS OF COVENANTS
Loan Agreement   Date       Description of Covenants                       Status
Section 4.01         --    HDFC  to  carry  out  sound  financial  and   O.K.
administrative practices
Section 4.02         --    HDFC  to  furnish  to  the  Bank  at  the   O.K.
beginning of each fiscal year its branching
and expansion plan
Section 4.03      6/30/89  HDFC to submit to the Bank plans to broaden   O.K.
lending to lower income borrowers
Section 5.01(b)      --    HDFC to have its accounts audited by an   O.K.
independent auditor and furnish the Bank
with the financial statements and the audit
report within 6 months of end of each
fiscal year
Section 5.01(c)      --    HDFC  to  maintain  records  of  project   O.K.
expenditures and have the separate audit
opinion included in the audit report
Section 5.02         --    Consolidated   debt   of   HDFC   and   its   O.K.
subsidiaries not to exceed 17.5 times the
consolidated capital and surplus
Section 5.03(a)      --    HDFC   to   maintain   various   financial   O.K.
performance standards  (see the preceding
Table 8)
Section 5.06         --    HDFC to take steps satisfactory to the Bank   O.K.
to protect against foreign exchange risk
Schedule I           --    before withdrawal of Bank loan for housing   O.K.
Para 3(b)                   loans  over  US$  150 million:    National   ( S e e
Housing Bank to implement regulations of   P a r t
housing finance institutions and promote   I,   D
resource  mobilization   instruments   for   a n d
market-oriented   finance;   the   Sitting   E.)
Committee to agree upon and submit to GOI
recommendations    regarding    mortgage
insurance and mortgage adjudication
Schedule 1           --    HDFC shall make at least 50% of the Bank   O.K.
Para 3(c)                   disbursement for housing loans as mortgage
loans to beneficiaries with income below
the  urban  median  which  is  adjusted
according to the consumer price index



-23-
Table 10. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Input
Stage of                                                 Staff-weeks
Project Cycle                                             HQ + Field
--------------------------------------------------------
Through Appraisal                                              29.7
Appraisal through Board Approval                               20.5
Board Approval through Effectiveness                            3.2
Supervision                                                   29.8
TOTAL                                                        90.5
B. Missions
Stage of                 Month    No of  days   Specialty    Perform-   Type of
Project cycle              Year    per-    in       represented ance            Problems
sons    field                   Rating
----------------------------------------------------------------__----
Through                   Dec 86         2       4    Ec,L                na
Appraisal                 Mar 87          3      8    Ec,F                na
Jun 87         3      16    Ec,F                na
Oct 87         3      16    Ec,F                na
---------------------------------------------------------------------_
Appraisal through
Effectiveness                        None
----------------------------------------------------------__----------
Supervision               Sep 88          1     15 F                     1
Mar 89          1      4 Ec                    1
Aug 89         4       7 Ec, F, P              I     D, T
Mar 90         4       9 Ec, F                 I     D, T
Dec 90         2       8 Ec, F                 1     D
1     D
Completion                Oct 91          2     15 Ec, F                 1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Total    102
KEY TO SYMBOLS:                     Specialty            Problems
Ec Economist         D     Development
Objective
P  Urban             T     Technical
Planner                Assistance
F Financial
Analyst



