Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2929 IN
                          (HDFC Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
          HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
                       Dated April 21, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2929 IN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April  21,  1988  between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND   DEVELOPMENT   (the  Bank)  and  HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION LIMITED  (the Borrower), a company
registered under the Companies Act,  1956  of India, as amended to
the date of this Agreement.
     WHEREAS (A) India,  acting  by  its President (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been  satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted (the General Conditions),
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Housing Mortgage Loan" means a loan made or proposed to
be made by the Borrower in accordance with its lending criteria to
any beneficiary for a specific  residential  unit  or units to be
built or acquired in  India,  for  which  the Borrower may use the
proceeds of the Loan;
     (b)  "Policy Statement" means the statement of policy adopted
by the Borrower's Board of Directors on May 2, 1978, as amended to
the date of this Agreement;
     (c)  "Sitting Committee" means the committee appointed by the
Guarantor to study mortgage insurance and adjudication of mortgage
claims  comprising  representatives  from  the  General  Insurance
Corporation of India,  Housing  and Urban Development Corporation,
Ministry of Urban Development and the Borrower;
     (d)  "Subsidiary" means any  company  of  which a majority of
the outstanding  voting  stock  or  other  proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by  the  Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower  or  by  the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries; and
     (e)  "Rupees" or "Rs" means the currency of the Guarantor.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies  equivalent to two hundred
fifty million dollars ($250,000,000).
     Section 2.02. The amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for: (i) amounts  paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be paid) by the Borrower for Housing Mortgage Loans; and
(ii) for expenditures made (or, if  the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of goods and services
required for Part B of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1991 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
Page  3
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
engineering, financial and administrative practices and in accord-
ance with the  Policy  Statement  and  shall  provide, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the equipment  and materials and consultants' services
required for Part B of the  Project  and to be financed out of the
proceeds of  the  Loan  shall  be  governed  by  the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The  Borrower  shall  implement  Part  B of the
Project in accordance with a mutually agreed action plan.
     Section 3.04. The  Borrower  undertakes that Housing Mortgage
Loans shall be  made  in  accordance  with  the Borrower's lending
criteria as in force from  time  to  time, including the terms and
conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall  carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs  in  accordance  with sound administrative and
financial practices under the  supervision  of qualified and expe-
rienced  management  assisted  by   competent  staff  in  adequate
numbers.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower  shall,  commencing in fiscal year
1989, formulate and furnish to  the  Bank at the beginning of each
fiscal year its proposed plans for branching and expansion.
     Section 4.03. The  Borrower  shall,  not  later than June 30,
1989, formulate and furnish to the Bank the plans for a program to
Page  4
broaden lending to lower income borrowers.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year,  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 5.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur or permit any Subsidiary to incur any
debt if, after the incurring  of  such debt, the consolidated debt
of the Borrower and  all  its  Subsidiaries then incurred and out-
standing would be greater than 17.5 times the consolidated capital
and surplus of the Borrower and all its Subsidiaries.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "debt" means any debt  incurred  by the Borrower or
               any Subsidiary maturing  more  than  one year after
Page  5
               the date on which it is originally incurred;
         (ii)  debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  (including  the Loan
               Agreement) on the date and to the extent the amount
               of the loan is  drawn down and outstanding pursuant
               to such loan contract or agreement; and (B) under a
               guarantee  agreement,  on  the  date  the agreement
               providing for such guarantee  has been entered into
               but only to the extent  that the guaranteed debt is
               outstanding;
        (iii)  whenever in connection  with  this Section it shall
               be necessary  to  value  in  terms  of  Rupees debt
               payable in foreign  currency,  such valuation shall
               be made at the  prevailing  lawful rate of exchange
               at which such foreign  currency  is, at the time of
               such valuation, obtainable by  the Borrower for the
               purposes of servicing such debt;
         (iv)  "consolidated debt  of  the  Borrower  and  all its
               Subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt of the
               Borrower and its  Subsidiaries,  excluding any debt
               owed by the Borrower  to  any  Subsidiary or by any
               Subsidiary to the  Borrower  or  to  any other Sub-
               sidiary; and
          (v)  "consolidated capital and  surplus  of the Borrower
               and its Subsidiaries"  means  the  aggregate of the
               unimpaired  paid-up   capital,   surplus  and  free
               reserves of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries after
               excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent
               equity interests of the  Borrower in any Subsidiary
               or of any  Subsidiary  in  the  Borrower  or in any
               other Subsidiary.
     Section 5.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take all such action as necessary to maintain:
          (i)  a ratio  between  its  available  earnings  and the
               aggregate  of  all  interest,  premiums  and  other
               charges on its debt of no less than 1.2 to 1;
         (ii)  administrative costs at a  level not exceeding 1.5%
               of its outstanding loans;
        (iii)  arrears over 12 months due at a level not exceeding
               0.4% of its outstanding loans; and
         (iv)  a provision for contingencies equal to no less than
               0.4% of its outstanding loans.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "administrative  costs"  means  all  revenue  costs
               connected with  the  day-to-day  operations  of the
               Borrower relating to staff, establishment and other
               operating  expenses,  but   shall  exclude  capital
               expenditure, depreciation relating  to such capital
               expenditure, deferred  expenses  and  provision for
               contingencies;
         (ii)  "available earnings" means  the aggregate income of
               the  Borrower  during  the   period  to  which  the
               accounts relate in accordance with the requirements
               of any applicable  law  of the Guarantor prevailing
               from  time  to   time,  less  administrative  costs
               associated with the generation of such income; and
        (iii)  "provision  for  contingencies"  means  a provision
               created for  setting  off  estimated  future losses
               which are  presently  of  a  contingent  nature and
Page  6
               which may arise in the ordinary course of business.
     Section 5.04. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall  be  necessary  to protect itself against the
risk of loss  resulting  from  changes  in  the  rates of exchange
between the currencies used in its operations.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any part of  the  principal  amount  of  any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in
accordance with its terms, have  become due and payable in advance
of maturity as provided  in  the relative contractual instruments,
or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
     (b)  a material change  shall  have  been  made in the Policy
Statement; and
     (c)  a resolution shall have  been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraphs  (a), (b) or (c) of Section
6.01 shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VII
                           Effectiveness
     Section 7.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 8.01. The Chairman  of  the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower  for  the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited
          Ramon House
Page  7
          169 Backbay Reclamation
          Bombay 400 020, India
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               HOUSCORP                          HDFC-6762
               Bombay
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE
                      CORPORATION LIMITED
                    By /s/ N. Misra
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Housing                   248,400,000      30%
     Mortgage
     Loans
(2)  Equipment and                 900,000      100% of foreign
     materials for                              expenditures,
     Part B of the                              100% of local
     Project                                    expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost) and
                                                60% of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(3)  Consultants'                  700,000      100%
     services and
     training for
     Part B of the
     Project
Page  8
                               ___________
          TOTAL                250,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $25,000,000, may be made in respect of
Category (1) on account  of  payments made for expenditures before
that date but after October 1, 1987;
     (b)  payments made for expenditures in excess of $150,000,000
in respect of Category (1) unless:  (i) the Bank is satisfied that
the National Housing Bank  is  implementing specific proposals to:
(A)  regulate  financial  standards  and  operating  procedures of
housing finance institutions  in  India;  and (B) promote resource
mobilization instruments to  encourage market-oriented intermedia-
tion in the housing finance sector; and (ii) the Sitting Committee
has agreed upon and submitted  to  the Insurance Department of the
Ministry of Finance  recommendations  relating to establishment of
a mortgage  insurance  system  and  a  system  of adjudication for
mortgage claims; and
     (c)  payments made for  expenditures  in  respect of Category
(1) in excess of 50% in each tranche for Housing Mortgage Loans to
beneficiaries with a monthly  income  exceeding  Rs 1,700 (using a
1987  calendar  year  base),  adjusted  each  calendar  year  with
reference to the consumer price index in India.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are  to:  (i) expand the Bor-
rower's  sphere  of  operations   to  a  wider  geographical  area
and to  a  wider  group  of  middle  and low-income beneficiaries;
(ii)  support  the   Borrower's   institutional  development;  and
(iii) develop  a  supportive  regulatory  framework  to ensure the
financial integrity of housing  finance institutions and the capa-
city to mobilize resources at market rates for housing finance.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Housing Mortgage Loans
     The carrying out of  a  program  of Housing Mortgage Loans to
qualified beneficiaries to assist in the financing of construction
or purchase of housing units.
Part B:   Technical Assistance
Page  9
          (i)  carrying  out  training  and  manpower  development
               programs;
         (ii)  utilization of consultants'  services for organiza-
               tional development;
        (iii)  deployment of management  control  systems and com-
               puter systems; and
         (iv)  supporting  the   Borrower's  technical  assistance
               program to  new  housing  finance  institutions for
               start-up activities and establishment of procedures
               and controls.
                 *               *               *
     The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1991.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
     beginning November 1, 1993
     through   November 1, 2007                       8,335,000
On May 1, 2008                                        8,285,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to  the   balance  out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the  day  of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
Page  10
More than 16 years but not                           0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Contracts for equipment and  materials  estimated to cost the
equivalent  of  $50,000  each  or  less  shall  be  procured under
contracts awarded  in  accordance  with  the Borrower's procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for equipment under Part B
of the Project estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of $500,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 5.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower  shall  employ  consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and  conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
Page  11
                            SCHEDULE 5
          Terms and Conditions for Housing Mortgage Loans
     Except as the Bank  and  the  Borrower shall otherwise agree,
the following  terms  and  conditions  shall  be  included  in the
Borrower's lending criteria in force from time to time:
1.   Eligibility Criteria: The  Borrower's  Housing Mortgage Loans
     shall  be  available  to  individuals  and  entities  who can
     demonstrate their repayment capacity.
2.   Purpose: Housing Mortgage  Loans  shall  be  utilized for the
     acquisition or construction  of  residential  units meant for
     use by the applicant. Such  units  may be located anywhere in
     India. The  Borrower's  finance  shall  not  be available for
     resort houses.
3.   Eligible Amount:  The  maximum  Housing  Mortgage  Loan for a
     residential unit shall not normally  exceed Rs 250,000 or 70%
     of the cost of the residential unit, whichever is lower.  The
     eligible amount shall be determined by the repayment capacity
     of the applicant taking  into consideration factors including
     age, income, personal guarantees, savings history, assets and
     liabilities.  The   eligible   amount   shall   generally  be
     determined to ensure  that  the  installment: income ratio is
     approximately 30%. For  short  periods  of  time and in other
     defined circumstances a fixed  obligation  income ratio of up
     to 35% may be permitted.
4.   Interest Rate: Housing Mortgage  Loans shall be at prevailing
     market interest rates in India.
5.   Title: The title to  the  residential  unit to be financed by
     the Borrower shall  normally  be  free from any encumbrances,
     and shall be the  standard  security for the Housing Mortgage
     Loan.
6.   Appraisal: The Borrower shall conduct a thorough appraisal of
     the savings history  of  the applicant's assets, liabilities,
     income, number of dependents, property details and sources of
     own contribution. A  technical  appraisal  shall be conducted
     prior to approval of the  Housing  Mortgage Loan in case such
     Loan is for acquisition of an existing residential unit which
     is more than five years old.
7.   Loan Agreement: Prior to disbursement, the applicant shall be
     required  by  the  Borrower  to  execute  a  loan  agreement,
     promissory note and a letter of declaration and indemnity.
8.   Amortization: The  repayment  period  for  a Housing Mortgage
     Loan shall be  at  least  seven  years  but  shall not exceed
     twenty years, the normal period being about 15 years.
