Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14826
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1843-TO)
JUNE 30, 1995
Industry and Energy Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Curreincy Unit: CFA franc
I CFA frainc = 0.033 US dollars in 1987; 0,0019 US dollars in 1995
I US dollar = 300 CFA francs in 1987; 525 CFA francs in 1995
I SDR = US$ 1.278 in 1987; US$ 1.566 in 1995
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO         BanquLe ('lentrale de.s Fiats d'Afrique de l'Ouest (Ccntral Bank of West African
Monetary Union)
BIAO          Banqzue Internationale pouir l'Afrique de IOi'uest (West African Inteniational
Bank)
BTD           Banq7Je To golaisCe de Dcveloppement (Togolese Devclopmenit Bank)
CCCE           Caisse (entrale der Cooperation Economiquie (A development financing agencv
of the French govcrnment)
CTI            Centre logolais des Investisseurs (Togolcse Invcstors Center)
DIVA          Division d'Assistance aux EnIremrises (Enterprisc Assistance Unit)
FPPS          / onds de P'articipation auix 1'restations de SYcrvices (Studies Fund)
MISE          Ministi;re de l'Industrie ei des SociLStes d'Etat (Ministrv of Industry anid State
Enterprises)
OPAT          Office des 1'roduits Agricole's dm 7Togo (Agricultural Products Marketilig Agency)
01P 13f ice Togolais des I'hosphates (Togolese Phosphate Production Company)
SME           Small and Mediumli Enterprise
SONACOM    Socidtc Nanionale de Commerce (National Trade Companv)
UMOA           UJnion Mlonetaire des Ehits d'Aftriqle de l'Onest (West African Monctary Union)
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER:
January I - December 3 1



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-3-
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................i
PART 1: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ......................................1
1. INTRODUCTION .
11.  EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS..  I
A. Project Objectives                            .I
B. Project Components                             .2
Ill. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES                              .4
IV.  IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
PERFORMANCE                                  . . 4
A.  Implementation Record                           .4
B.     Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation           .5
V. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                   .6
VI. IDA PERFORMANCE                                     .6
VII. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                    .6
VIII. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                                 .7
IX. FUTURE OPERATIONS                                    .7
X. KEY LESSONS LEARNED                                    .7
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES .............................8
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments                           .8
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits                         .9
Table 3: Project Timetable .10
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .10
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation .10
Table 6: Project Costs .11
Table 7: Project Financing .11
Table 8:  Status of Legal Covenants .12
Table 9:  Bank Resources: Staff Missions .15
Appendix A:  Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
Map No.:       14196R2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of their
I oticial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihout World Bank authorization.






-4-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
(CREDIT NO. 1843-TO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Private Enterprise
Development Project in Togo, for which a credit (1843-TO) in the amount of SDR 9.0 million
(US$11.5 million equivalent) was approved on September 3, 1987 and made effective on October
31, 1988.
IDA disbursed a total of SDRI.6 million (US$2.6 million equivalent) and canceled the
undisbursed balance of SDR7.4 million on July 26, 1994. The last disbursement took place on
July 8, 1994. However, the credit did not officially close until March 24, 1995 because of a delay
in the recovery of the remaining funds in the project's Special Account. The project closed ahead
of its originally scheduled closing date, June 30, 1997, because of insufficient progress in the
project's implementation.
This ICR was prepared by the AF41E Division of the West Central Africa Department and
reviewed by Mrs. Mary Oakes Smith, Division Chief, AF4IE, and Mr. Franz Kaps, Operations
Adviser, AF4DR.
The ICR is based on material in the project file and on discussions with Bank staff
involved in the preparation and supervision of the project. The Borrower's own evaluation of the
project's execution is attached as Appendix A to the ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
(CREDIT NO. 1843-TO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Private Enterprise Development Project (PEDP), which IDA approved in 1987, took
place within the context of Togo's development policy to restore growth in the productive sectors
of Togo's economy, with special emphasis on  mechanisms to promote private enterprise
development, particularly small and medium-scale enterprises (SME), as well as artisanal
activities (Part i, para. I.1). The project followed a Second Structural Adjustment Credit and a
related Tecinical Assistance project in 1985, which supported measures to restructure and
privatize public enterprises while improving incentives for private investment through revisions to
Togo's Investment Code.
Project Objectives_and Components
2.     The main objectives of PEDP were to:  (i) promote economic growth and increase
employment through policy changes, technical assistance and financial mechanisms for enhancing
private enterprises, with special attention to SMEs and the artisanal sector; and (ii) reduce the role
of the Government in the productive sectors through technical assistance to assist in the
Govennemnt's ongoing program of parastatal enterprise privatization.  These objectives were
reasonable for implementing Togo's strategy for greater involvement of the private sector in
economic growth and the need for special mechanisms to encourage commercial banks to increase
their lending to SMEs. However, the objectives proved to be overly optimistic given problems with
the design of the project's components, the lack of Government commitment to the project, the
conditions prevailing in the country's banking sector, and the deterioration in the political and
economic situation that developed during the course of the project's implementation.
3.     The project had four main components to support its objectives: (i) establishment of a
private investment support structure, (ii) a line of credit, training and a pilot guarantee mechanism
to promote commercial bank financing of private enterprise development projects; (iii) development
of a pilot program for a credit delivery system to micro enterprises; and (iv) support to the
Governments ongoing parastatal privatization program (Part I, para. 2.2). In addition to these
components, the project called for the Government to take specific policy measures to improve
Togo's incentive and regulatory framework for private investment.
4.     There were several problems with the design of the project. These concerned: (i)
difficulties in determining the demand for the line of credit component with heavy reliance on a
new, untested promotion mechanism; (ii) an overly complex promotion structure that was not well
suited to project objectives; and (iii) the bureaucratic nature of the apex arrangement for the
administration of the line of credit component.



_jj_
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    IDA approved the Credit of SDR 9 million for PEDP in September 1987 and the Credit
became effective in October 1988. Managerial problems and the poor performance of the line of
credit component led to the suspension of disbursements in May 1994. As a result, final project
costs were only US$2.7 million equivalent compared to US$18.5 million equivalent estimated at
appraisal. The project closed in March 1995. IDA disbursed a total of SDR 1.6 million, mostly
for technical assistance and one subproject under the line of credit component. IDA canceled the
remaining SDR 7.4 million.
6.     Overall, the outcome of the project was unsatisfactory because of the project's negligible
achievements in meeting its most important institutional objectives and use of the line of credit to
expand viable private enterprises and the contribution of SMEs to the economy. The project did
bring about some improvements in the investment framework for private enterprise.   The
Governnent abolished price controls on domestically produced goods; streamlined the enterprise
registration process; and made some revisions to the Investment Code.  However, the new
investment promotion institutions, wlhich were critical elements to the success of the project,
played only a minimal role in preparing viable subprojects for financing under the project's line of
credit. The line of credit component, which accounted for 82 percent of the criginal Credit funds,
remained virtually untapped. The sustainability of the project's achievements is unlikely and the
performance of the Borrower was deficient.
7.     The main factors that prevented PEDP from achieving most of its objectives were: (i) the
Government's lack of commitment to a project design it never fully endorsed; (ii) managerial and
institutional problems; (iii) the lack of commnercial bank interest in the line of credit; (iv)
competition from other finanicing schemes; and (iv) a sharp deterioration in Togo's economy.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and V'y Lessons Learned
8.     The project did not create a viable support system for promoting private investment and
increasing term lending to industry, particularly for SMEs and artisanal enterprises. With
hindsight, additional efforts to define alternative institutional arrangements and widely disseminate
information on the objectives and modalities of the line of credit to commercial banks and
entrepreneurs, could have improved the impact of the project on private sector development in
Togo.
9.     IDA's Country Assistance Strategy for Togo, approved by IDA's Board on June 28,
1995, includes plans for further sector work and lending to stimulate private sector development
and improve Togo's banking system. A Private Sector Assessment (PSA), which is planned for
Fiscal Year (FY) 1996 will identify the remaining constraints to private sector activities and
recommend ways to streamline some of the cumbersome administrative procedures that remain.
The study will give special emphasis to the development of micro, small and medium-scale
enterprises, which could play a considerable role in expanding economic growth. There is also a
Private Sector Adjustment Credit in the planning stage for FY1998. This Credit would support a
further strengthening of the incentive and regulatory framework for private sector activities,
complete the privatization program for public enterprises, and address institutional support issues.
In addition, a Financial Sector and Public Enterprise Restructuring Credit (FY97) will focus on



-iii-
restructuring the banking and insurance sectors, and the Economic Rehabilitation and Adjustment
Credit, planned for FY96. will support the reform of the parastatal sector.
10.    There are five important lessons that emerge from the implementation experience of PEDP:
Any follow-up project for private enterprise development should include a detailed
private sector assessment, coordination of its program with those of other donors,
and the full commitment of the Government to both its objectives and its design.
*    Commercial banks and professional associations of enterprises should take the
leadership role in any institutional structure developed for private investment
promotion.
*    Thc relationship bctween IDA and the Borrower should be dynamic and flexible,
keeping communication channels open, to allow for project changes in the case
where the original design does not work well in practice, or is overtaken by events.
*    The design of a line of credit to commercial banks should be as simple as possible
avoiding layers of approval that are not absolutely necessary and may very well
deter the interest of investment enterprises and commercial banks.
*    It is important to find appropriate modalities for providing viable institutional
support to the infomial sector, which can potentially constitute a dynamic and
productive segment of the economy.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 1843-TO)
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.     INTRODUCTION
1 1    The Private Enterprise Development Project (PEDP) was part of the Governmcnt of
Togo's strategy to restore growth in the productive sectors of the cconomny and expand
employment, with special attention to promoting the devclopment of small and medium scalc
enterprises (SMEs) and artisanal activitics to achieve these goals. At the timc of projcct appraisal
(December 1986) the manufacturing sector in Togo was small, accounting for only seven percent
of GDP and consisting mostly of large public enterpriscs. The presence of these large enterprises
and the lack of sufficient access to credit facilities were apparcnt constraints to the devclopmcn: of
SMEs, which accounted for only 20 percent of the value addcd in the manufacturing scctor and 30
percent of the sector's employment. These SMEs were concentrated in onilv a fcw subsectors --
construction, clothing, electrical works, printing and woodworking. The Togolese financial system
focused on short-termi lendinig for commercial operations and was reluctait to becomc involved
with medium and long-temi lending to SMEs bccause of higlier risks and overhead costs. The
Governmneit set forth its Private Sector Development Policy in June 1987, which focused on
changing the orientation of industry in Togo from large public enterprises, which had not produced
the expected industrial expansion to promoting development of private enterprises to manage the
productive sectors with the Government providing neccssary incentivc structure and rcgulatory
framework. The Government and IDA designed PEDP to be the vehicle for impleiclinting this
policy. PEDP followed a Second Structural Adjustmcnt Credit and a related Technical Assistance
Project in 1985, which supported measures to rcstructure and privatize public enterprises, while
also improving the incentives through a revised investment codc.
II.    EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
A.    Project Objectives
2.1    The main objectives of PEDP were to:  (i) promotc economic growthi and increase
employment through policy changes, technical assistance and finanlcial mechaniisnis for cnhancing
private enterprises, with special attention to SMEs and the artisanal sector, anid (ii) reduce the role
of the Government in the productive sectors through technical assistance to assist in the
Government's ongoing prograni of parastatal cntcrprise privatization.  Thcsc objectives were
reasonable for implementing the Togo's strategy for greater involvement of the private sector in
economic growth and the need for special mechanisms to encourage commercial banks to increase
their lending to SMEs. However, the objectives proved to be ovcrly optimistic given problems with
the design of the project's components, the lack of Government commitment to the project, the
conditions prevailing in the country's banking sector, anud the deterioration in the political and
economic situation that developed during the course of the project's implemiienitation.



-2-
B.    Project Components
2.2   In support of its objectives, the project had four main components:
(i)    Establishment of a private investment support structure. This was to
consist of the Centre Togolais des Investisseurs (CTI), a referral and orientation
agency for potential investors; and the Division d'Assistance aux Entreprises
(DIVA), an enterprise assistance unit which was to provide a range of extension
services in several important areas, including, legal informnation, marketing,
accounting and management of both financial and human resources. In addition,
the project was to support the establishment and management of a Fonds de
Participation aux Prestations de Service (FPPS), a studies fund to help potential
investors defray the costs associated with the preparation of investment projects.
(ii)    A line of credit, training and pilot guarantee mechanism to promote
commercial bank financing of private eniterprise investment projects. The
project was to make available a US$9 million line of credit to Togolese
commercial banks through the country's Central Bank, the national branch of the
Banque Centrale des Etats d'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO), to finance investment,
as well as working capital for the expansion of existing and new private
enterprises and parastatal enterprises in the process of privatization. In line with
the project's special focus on SMEs, one-third of the credit was reserved for these
enterprises only. Also BCEAO and participating banks were to receive training in
the economic analysis of projects and the project was to include the pilot testing of
guarantee mechanisms which would help make SME financing more attractive to
the commercial banks.
(iii)   Pilot program for a credit delivery system for micro enterprises. This
component was to evaluate the most appropriate modality for providing credit to
artisanal enterprises taking account of reducing the cost of intermediation by using
various non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to select and process
microenterprises, working in concert with the formal banking system.
(iv)   Support to  the  government's  ongoing  parastatal privatization
program. The project was to provide technical assistance to the Ministry of State
enterprises, supplemented by advisory services to support the establishment of a
mutual investment fund that would facilitate investment by Togolese nationals in
the share capital of large enterprises, particularly those in the process of
privatization.
In addition to these project components, the project included covenants for the Government to take
specific policy measures to improve Togo's incentive and regulatory franiework for private
investments.
2.3    There were several problems with the design of the project.  These concerned: (i)
difficulties in determining the demand for the line of credit component with heavy reliance on a
new, untested promotion mechanism; (ii) an overly complex promotion structure that was not well



-3-
suited to project objectives; (iii) the bureaucratic nature of the apex arrangement for the
administration of the line of credit component; and (iv) lack of full government acceptance of the
compromise on interest rate structure.
2.4    Establishing demand for the line of credit component. The project's appraisal team
recognized that the small size of the Togolese manufacturing sector and constraints to sector
expansion could adversely affect the demand for the line of credit. These constraints included: (i)
an overvalued exchange rate; (ii) the small size of the domestic market; (iii) the growing
competition of manufactured products imported or smuggled by increasingly aggressive formal and
informal trading enterprises; and (iv) the lack of interest among Togolese entrepreneurs because of
the high risks associated with industrial projects, compared to trade and services activities.
Considering these conditions, it would have been prudent for the appraisal team to conduct a more
systematic review of potential demand for credit funds instead of relying so heavily on a new,
untested promotion structure.
2.5    Complexity of the promotion framework. One of the PEDP's key features was to
establish a light, privately-managed, investment promotion mechanism. Instead it constructed a
complex institutional arrangement involving the Chamber of Commerce, commercial banks, the
Central Bank, and several government ministries. The Planning Ministry had the responsibility for
coordination but this ministry was not well equipped to monitor the largest component, the line of
credit, for commercial bank lending to SMEs and other enterprises. There were basically four
major problems in the design of the promotion structure.   First, it relied on three distinct
instruments (CTI, DIVA and Fonds de Participation aux Prestations de Services (FPPS)) without
a clear delineation of how they would work together. Second, the division of responsibilities
between CTI, for the promotion of new projects, and DIVA, for extension services to enterprises
was unclear and likely to result in a duplication of functions. Third, CTI was not really a
privately-managed institution since most of its important sponsors were public and mixed
enterprises which had little to gain from the development of a dynamic, small-scale private
enterprise seztor. Finally, the promotion structure had to depend on Government decision making
on the use of FPPS funds to finance feasibility studies for investment projects. Therefore, the new
structure was not significantly more independent from the public sector than two previous technical
assistance institutions that closed in 1982 and 1983.
2.6    Bureaucratic approach of line of credit administration. The project's design did not
provide for sufficient clarification of the role of the apex institution, BCEAO, which was
responsible for managing the credit line. BCEAO created a management "Steering Committee"
(Comite de Gestion), which included representatives of several public sector agencies. Such an
overly bureaucratic approach to the management of the project, involving a large number of public
institutions, was incompatible with the objective of creating a highly flexible mechanism adapted to
the needs of commercial banks and small businesses. For example, a sub-project had to pass
through eight steps: (i) project identification by a Togolese enterprise; (ii) review by CTI; (iii)
financing of feasibility study by FPPS; (iv) implementation of the study by local consultants; (v)
project evaluation and approval by a commercial bank; (vi) review by BCEAO; (vii) approval by
the "Comite de Gestion", and (viii) approval by IDA.
2.7    Compromise on interest rate structure. While IDA advocated comparatively high
intermediation spreads of at least five percent and interest rates of at least 13 percent, the



-4-
government believed that subsidized interest rates of around eight percent were necessary to
encourage investments by small-scale entrepreneurs. Other financiers seemed to agree with the
Government and were providing preferential rates for direct loans to SMEs. Therefore, before
Board presentation of the project, IDA negotiated a compromise arrangement with the
Government. This arrangement provided for the alignment of final interest rates with the average
rates that prevailed with commercial banks in the Union Mon&taire des Elats d 'Afrique de I 'Quest
(OMOA), the West African regional monetary zone, maintaining a preferential rate of nine percent
for SMEs lending and limiting the spread of commercial banks to 4.5 percent. However, the
Government never fully accepted this compromise. Such an important issue should have been
settled much earlier in the project preparation stage.
III.   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1    The project did not achieve its objectives for expanding the growth of private enterprises
and increasing employment. The project's main component, an SDR 7 million (US$9 million
equivalent) line of credit remained virtually unused. The new investment promotion institutions
played a minimal role both in promoting viable SMEs and in identifying and preparing
economically viable sub-projects. Three small sub-projects (with loans totaling US$ 612,000)
were approved. Two of the three sub-projects were never disbursed and were eventually canceled.
The mutual guarantee agencies that the project had planned to reduce the risks of SME lending
never became operational and the project failed to establish a pilot arrangement for lending to
artisanal enterprises. The project partially achieved its objectives of assisting the Borrower to
reduce the role of the state in the productive sector. Technical assistance to the Ministry of State
Enterprises helped introduce a comprehensive management information system for the parastatal
sector and prepare studies of enterprises slated for privatization. During the first four years of
project implementation (1988-1991), seven enterprises were privatized. However, the political
crisis of 1991-93 made it impossible to carry out the remainder of the privatization prograni. The
project did not establish the mutual investment fund wilich was supposed to facilitate the
participation of private investors in the share capital of privatized enterprises. On the other hand,
the Government complied with the sectoral policy conditions in the Projcct's Credit Agreement
eliminating price controls on domestically produced manufacturing goods, abolishing export
licensing, streamlining the enterprise registration process, and revising the Investment Code. On
the basis of the findings of an effective protection study, the Govcnment further liberalized the
foreign trade regime, simplified the tax and tariff system, and reduced the dispersion of tariff rates.
IV.  IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
PERFORMANCE
A.    Implementation Record
4.1   IDA approved the Credit for PEDP in September 1987 and it became effective in October
1988. In April 1991, a reallocation of the Credit proceeds reduced the funds allocated to the line of
credit from SDR 7 million to SDR 5.7 million. At the same time, there were increases in
allocations for: the micro-enterprise lending pilot scheme and technical assistance to the Ministry
of State Enterprises (MSE). Managerial problems anid the poor perfornance of the line of credit
component ultimately led to the suspension of disbursements in May 1994. IDA canceled the
undisbursed portion of the credit which amounted to SDR 7.4 million.



-5-
B.    Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
4.2    There were six major factors that adversely affected project implementation: (i) the
Governnent's lack of commitment to a project design it never fully endorsed; (ii) managerial and
institutional problems; (iii) the lack of insufficent incentives for participating in bank use of the line
of credit component; (iv) competition from other financing schemes; and (v) a sharp deterioration
of the economic environment.
4.3    Lack of Government commitment to the full project. The MSE was never satisfied with
PEDP's interest rate structure and the Ministry's position affected the performnance of the project.
On the one hand, the Ministry placed a high priority on its public enterprise restructuring and
privatization prograrn and made effective use of the resident experts which the project provided to
assist in the program's implementation.  On the other hand, MSE never fully accepted the
compromise the Government had made with IDA and always argued for a major reduction in the
final interest rate for SMEs lending. This opposition to the design of the lending component seems
to have affected other aspects of the project as well. For example, the Government did not
consistantly comply with the project's covenant governing the required budgetary allocation for the
Studies Fund (FPPS); it reduced this allocation to the Fund from CFAF 150 million to CFAF 50
million, making it very difficult for CTI to finance studies of potential investment projects.
4.4    Managerial and institutional problems. The Ministry of Planning was responsible for
overall project implementation and because the Government's coordinators for the project
performed other important functions at the Ministry, they were unable to dedicate enough time to
the project, which was small but relatively complex. CTI, non-governmental organizations (NGOs)
sponsored by commercial banks and large enterprises should have been able to perform the most
critical promotional and coordinating role, with the help of the Studies Fund. However, CTI was
unable to mobilize the funds and had to adjust its operations accordingly. For example, it never
appointed a Secretary General, leaving a resident expert, with the help of an Operations Officer,
responsible for the organization's  management.  Not only did the Government reduce its
contribution to the Studies Fund but CTI did not even have access to the Fund until the end of
1990, about two years after the start of the project. The project also financed a resident expert for
DIVA, a department within the Chamber of Commerce. The delineation of responsibilities
between CTI and DIVA for investment promotion was not vcry clear and there appeared to be
some duplication of functions. The resident experts assigned to these agencies worked in isolation,
helping individual SMEs on an ad hoc basis, but never fully gained the confidence of the banking
system. In addition, there were other promotional arrangements in progress connected with the
Export Processing Zones, which were outside of the project. In 1991-92 the resident advisors
working at CTI and DIVA left but no Togolese counterparts were in place to take over the
management of these institutions. At this time, the Government, the Chamber of Commerce, IDA
and other donors considered merging all of the existing private enterprise investment promotions,
but the Togolese Government and the other donors were reluctant to do so.
4.5    Insufficient incentives for participating bank use of the line of credit. During project
preparation, the Togolese banks seemed genuinely interested in the project. They assumed that the
investment promotion structure would generate sub-projects potentially attractive to them; interest
rates would adequately cover the costs and risks of SMEs lending; and reliable mutual guarantee



-6-
mechanisms would develop rapidly, mitigating the risks they perceived in term lending to SMEs.
However, ultimately the project did not provide sufficient incentives for participating banks to
expand their lending to SMEs and other enterprises eligible to the project's line of credit because:
(i) the interest rate structure on the subloans associated with the IDA funds did not compare
favorably with that of other funds available; (ii) they found the procedures for use of the IDA line
of credit slow and cumbersome; (iii) Togo's legal system did not provide adequate enforcement of
financial contracts and the collection of bad debts; (iv) the promotional structure to support
investment projects never became fully established; and (v) the guarantee mechanisms created
under the project, which were to be an integral part of the credit delivery system for SMEs, never
became fully operational.
4.6    Deterioration of the Economy. Togo's economic crisis in the 1990s had a disastrous
effect on the development of private sector activities in the country. GDP dropped by 22 percent in
1991-93, along with declining performance in the manufacturing, trade and services sectors. The
Government and major public enterprises accumulated arrears with the banking system and the
effective implementation of any major PEDP component became virtually impossible.
V.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
5.1    The sustainability of the project is unlikely. The institutional environment the project
created to assist SMEs has virtually collapsed. The project line of credit remained nearly
unutilized. The project's lasting benefits are mainly modest improvements in the regulatory
framework, the disengagement of the Government from a small number of public enterprises; and
the development of a methodology for future privatization operations.
VI.   IDA PERFORMANCE
6.1   IDA performance was satisfactory in project identification and implementation but was
deficient in project appraisal. The project appraisal team should have analyzed the prevailing
SME portfolio and the project pipeline of commercial banks more carefully to arrive at a realistic
assessment of the SME sector's absorptive capacity for the Credit funds. Furthermore, IDA
should not have launched a US$9 million equivalent line of credit without having previously agreed
with banks on a package of incentives, such as interest rates ald guarantees, that would be
sufficiently attractive to them, considering the special risks associated with SMEs lending. Also,
the appraisal team should have consulted other donors, during project preparation, to minimize
possible conflicts on interest rates, institutional arrangements, and other issues. IDA supervised the
project closely and supervision reports were sufficiently comprehensive. However, with hindsight,
it appears that IDA should have made a greater effort to persuade the Government to provide
adequate support to the investment promotion structure, or to reach agreement on alternative
institutional arrangements. IDA also should have made further efforts to better inform commercial
banks and entrepreneurs about the objectives and modalities of the line of credit.
VII. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
7.1    The Borrower's performance during the project was deficient. The Borrower should not
have approved a project based on an institutional set up and an interest rate structure it did not
thoroughly support. During project implementation, the Government and the agencies involving



-7-
with CTI and FPPS should have met their commitments for the funding of these institutions.
Without appropriate resources, it was unreasonable to expect CTI to fulfill its promotional role,
which was vital to the success of the line of credit component.
VIII. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
8.1    The project's outcome was highly unsatisfactory because, on balance, except for some
improvements in the business environment for the private sector, the achievement of most project
objectives was negligible and the performance of the Borrower was deficient. Furthermore, the
sustainability of the promotional mechanisms to expand private industrial investment is unlikely.
IX.   FUTURE OPERATIONS
9.1    A private sector assessment scheduled for Fiscal Year (FY) 1996, plans to identify the
remaining constraints to private activities in Togo and recommend ways to streamline some of the
cumbersome administrative procedures that remain. This study will give special emphasis to
micro, small and medium-scale enterprises which could play an important role in expanding
economic growth. Also a Private Sector Adjustment Credit is in the planning stage for FY98. In
addition, a Financial Sector and Public Enterprise Restructuring Credit (FY97) will focus on
restructuring the banking and insurance sectors and the Economic Rehabilitation and Adjustment
Credit planned for FY96 will support the further reform of parastatal enterprises.
X.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
10.1   There were five major lessons that emerged from the project:
-    Any follow-up project for private enterprise development should include a detailed
private sector assessment, coordination of its program with those of other donors,
and the full commitment of the Government to both its objectives and its design.
*    Commercial banks and professional associations of enterprises should take the
leadership role in any institutional structure developed for private investmnent
promotion.
*    The relationship between IDA and the Borrower should be dynamic and flexible,
keeping communication channels open, to allow for project changes in the case
where the original design does not work well in practice, or is overtaken by events.
*    The design of a line of credit to commercial banks should be as simple as possible
avoiding layers of approval that are not absolutely necessary and may very well
deter the interest of investment enterprises and commercial banks.
*    It is important to find appropriate modalities for providing viable institutional
support to the informal sector, which can potentially constitute a dynamic and
productive segment of the economy.



-8-
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
A.    Achievement of objectives   Substantial   Partial     Negligible    Not applicable
(1/)    (u)             (/)            (1)
Macro policies
Sector policies
Financial objectives                                     /
Institutional development                                /
Physical objectives                                      v
Poverty reduction                                        V
Gender issues                                                            /
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives                                                  /
Public sector management
Private sector development                               /
Other (specify) Training                                                  /
B.    Project sustainability            Likely       Unlikely            Uncertain
./
C.    Bank performance                  Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                                           /
Preparation assistance                                   /
Appraisal                                                              /
Supervision                                              v
D.    Borrower performance              Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation
Implementation
Covenant compliance
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                  Highly
E.    Assessment of outcome      Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory
V/



-9-
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Loan/credit title                  Purpose                      Year of         Status
Approval
Proceeding operations
1. First Structural Adjustment Credit  Support for macro/sector,  FY83          Completed and fully
policy reforms, and public                   disbursed.
enterprise rehabilitation.
2. Second Structural Adjustment Credit Consolidating macroeconomic   FY85       Completed and
policy achievements of SAC 1.                fully disbursed.
Following operations
1. Third Structural Adjustment Credit  Consolidating macro/sectoral    FY88     Completed and fully
policy achievements of SAC 1,                disbursed
SAC 11, and Public Enterprise
Rehabilitation Privatization
2. Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit Consolidating macro/sectoral    FY91      Completed and fully
policy achievemiienits of SAC                disbursed.
1, 11 and 111. Public Secto reform
Public Enterprise Devestiture
and Human Resource Develop-
ment.
3. Economic Recovery and           Macro/sectoral policy reforms   FY96          Under preparation
Adjustment Credit                  Modernize customs/tax system
Complete P.E. piblic
enterprise privatization program
4. Financial Sector Adjustment     Reform of banking/financial    FY98           Under preparation
Credit                             system. Liquid merge,
rehabilitation, privatization of
financial institutions improving
environment for banking acti% ity



-10-
Table 3 - Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle             Date planned                 Date actual/latest estimate
Identification                                                  October 14, 1986
Preparation
Appraisal                                                       December 1986
Negotiations                                                    April 1987
Letter of development policy                                    June 1987
Board presentation                                              September 3, 1987
Signing                             September 1987              March 30, 1988
Effectiveness                      January 1988                 October 31, 1988
Project completion                  July 27, 1994
Credit closing                      June 30, 1997               March 24, 1995
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97
Appraisal estimale      0.8    1.2   2.8   4.4   6.3   7.9   9.3   10.3  11.0  11.5
Actual                         .9    1.16   1.77  2.19   2.34   2.41   2.47*
Act. as%of estimate            75    41    40    35    30    26    24
Date of final disbursement  July 8, 1994
* The undisbursed balance, equivalent to $9.0 million was canceled
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
No such indicators specified for the proJcct



-11-
Table 6: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Original/Latest Estimate (USSM)
Local      Foreign                 Local       Foreign
Item                  Costs      Costs       Total       Costs       Costs1      Total
Instit. Support        1.10        0.95        2.05         .17         1.44        1.61
Privatization Program  0.65        0.85        1.50         .00         1.07        1.07
Microent. Scheme       0.40        0.30        0.70         .00         .03          .03
Line of Credit2        4.85        9.40       14.25         .01          .02        .03
Total                  7.00       11.50       18.50         .18         2.56        2.74
l     Original estimate of local costs is not available
2      Including training for staff of BCEAO and commercial banks.
Table 7: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Original/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign                 Local       Foreign
Source        Costs       Costs       Total       Costs       Costs       Total
IDA                       11.50        11.50          -         2.56        2 56
Government   1.60                       1.60         .17          -          .17
Private Sector 5.40                     5.40         .01          -          .01
Total         7.00        11.50        18.50         .18        2.56        2.74



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan                                       Original       Revised
Agreement      Covenant        Present      Fulfillment    Fulfillment                   Description
Agreement       Section         Type          Status          Date            Date                      of Covenant                  Comments
Development   3.01           M              PC             NA              NA             Borrower declares commitment to the objectives  Did not demonstrate full
Credit                                                                                    of the project as set forth in Schedule 2 and  comrnitment to all objectives.
Agreement                                                                                implement the project through the Ministry of
Planning and Mining in cooperation with the
Ministry of Economy and Finance and the
Ministry of Industry and State Enterprises.
3.02          M              PC             NA              NA            Borrower to enter into a Protocol wsith BCEAO,  Marginal use of line of credit
acceptable to IDA. BCEAO to assist Borrower in  component.
implementing Part A of the Project in accordance
s ith Protocol. Protocol to provide for BCEAO to
(a) enter into subsidiary loan agreements with
participating banks (b) cause participating banks
to  enter into  investment agreements  with
investment enterprises in accordance with
Schedule 5; (c) each subloan on terms to allow the
Borrower to obtain rights adequate to protect the
Borrower's interest and that of [DA, according to
Schedule 5.
3.03          M              PC             NA              NA             Borrower to perform all obligations under the  Borrower reduced commitment to
Protocol and Subsidiary Loan Agreements and not  Studies Fund
take any action to modify them and exercise rights
to protect the interests of comply with obligations
under the Agreement and achieve project
objectives.
F=Financial; 1= Institutional; M=Managerial; P=Procurement; EP=Econ.mic Polics, NC= Non Compliance, C=Compliance; PC=Partial Compliance



Agreement          Loan                                       Original        Revised
Agreement      Covenant        Present      Fulfillment     Fulfillment                        Description
Section        Type          Status          Date            Date                           of Covenants                       Comments
3.04           M             NA             NA              NA             Borrower to furnish IDA  w%ith appropriate form  for  Lack of sufficient activity
presenting subloan and present applications before June  on component.
30, 1996.
3.05           M              PC            09/30/87        NA             To implement Part B of the Project, the Borrower to  Complied later than
appoint, wvithin its Ministry for Planning and Mining, by  original date.
September 30, 1987, and maintain, as Project Coordinator,
a Togolese national w%ith the necessary qualifications and
experience. Goods required for implement Part B of the
Project to be financed by Credit to be procured wvith price
quotations of at least three reputable suppliers.
3.06           P              C             NA              NA             Borrower to employ banking management financial and
marketing consultants with qualifications, experience and
employment terms satisfactory to IDA.   Consultants
selection to be in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.07           NA             NA            NA              NA             Borrosver to furnish IDA no later than March I of each  Lack of sufficient activity c^
year Part A is executed with final year -end audited  in the component.
accounts of participating banks, as usually required by
BCEAO.
3.08           M              C              NA             NA             Borrower to furnish IDA xwith results of feasibility studies
required for Parts B3.(a), (b), (c), of the Project and
implement recommendations as agreed wvith IDA by April
30, 1988, for Part B. 3 (a) and (b); by November 30, 1988
for Part B.3 c of the project and assess the investment
code and the charter of Enterprises with respect to
accessibility of non-capital intensive enterprises to these
laws the conditions required for enterprise to gain benefits
of regime B, the formula for determining value added, the
system for granting duty exemptions for imports of inputs
and equipment, and the system to monitor the execution of
obligations benefiting from the investment code regime.
Borrower to act anN proposed amendments, in agreement
w%ith IDA by December 31, 1988.
F=Financial; 1= Institutional; M=Managerial, P=Procurement, EP=Economic Policy; NC= Non Compliance, C=Compliance; PC=Partial Compliance



Agreement          Loan                                       Original        Revised
Agreement      Covenant        Present      Fulfillment     Fulfillment                        Description
Section        Type          Status          Date            Date                           of Covenants                       Comments
3-09           EP             PC             NA              NA             Borrower to abolish the export licensing system  for  Complied but on a
industrial products by 3/31188; develop a new system to  delayed basis.
collect and record statistical data on industrial product
exports; by December 31, 1987; and implement new
information system according to a timetable agreed wvith
[DA    By 12/31/87/, Borrower to review  system  of
regulating the establishment of new enterprises %,ith a
viesv to abolish renewal of establishment licenses and
consider appropriate means to replace enterprise
establishment licensing procedures with a straightforward
enterprise licensing system and devise and appropriate
system to monitor execution of tax liabilities by all
enterprise registered for business in Togo. By 3/31/88,
Borrower to implement results of the aforementioned
review.
4.01           F              PC             NA              NA             Borrower to maintain records and separate accounts,  Last audit not delivered
reflecting sound accounting practices of the project and  and earlier audits
each investment subproject; have project accounts audited  delivered late.
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; furnish IDA no
later than 5 months after the end of each project year, a
certified copy of the audit; and furnish to IDA any other
reasonable information on such accounts. Furthermore for
all expenditures and related withdrawals, the Borrower
shall maintain sound accounting records, ensure that
records of evidence of expenditure are retained at least one
year after IDA has reviewed audit report for FY of
wvithdrawal, enable IDA representatives to examine
records; and ensure records and accounts are included in
the annual audit of
6.01           F/I            PC             NA              NA             Establishment of FPPS and provision of funds for study.    Insufficient funds for
studies.
F=Financial; I= Institutional; M=Managerial; P=Procurement; EP=Economnic Policy, NC= Non Compliance, C=Compliance; PC=Partial Compliance



-15-
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
Number                  Specialized     Development 2/
Stage of        Month/        of        Days in    Staff Skills I/    Objectives
Project Cycle       Year      Persons       Field     Represented
Identification        10/86
Pre-Appraisal
Appraisal             12/86          5          14
Post-Appraisal
Supervision          01/88           1          14           00/FA               I
09/88          1           10          OO/FA               1
04/89          1           14          OOIE                2
10/89          2          10           OO/FA              3
03/90          1           14          00/FA               3
10/90          1           10
02/91          1           12          E                   3
10/91          1          13           E/OO               3
02/92          1           12          00/FA               3
10/92          1           12          00/FA              3
All missions were stopped in 1993 because of political disturbances and subsequently
absence of a legitimate government.
1/     00 = Operations Officer                2/      1 = Improving
FA = Financial Analyst                        2 = Stationary
E = Economist                                 3 = Project facing problems






APPENDIX A
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1843-TO)
Borrower's Evaluation
1. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND MAIN COMPONENTS
The Development Credit Agreement signed on March 30, 1988, which became effective on
October 3 1, 1988, defines the objectives and conditions of implementation for the Private Enterprise
Development Project (PEDP). The main objective was to bolster Government efforts in promoting
econonic growth and reducing unemployment by offering financial and institutional means to support
private initiatives in reorganizing or rehabilitating existing businesses and in establishing new businesses.
The following project componenits were designed to help achieve those objectives:
1.1 Line of credit
A line of credit managed by the Central Bank of the West African Monetary Union (BCEAO) for
SDR 7,050,000 was opened to finance investment projects. The line of credit alone accounts for 80% of
the credit amount and was to be used by Togolese banks in financing investment operations related to
existing businesses or new undertakings.
1.2 To-olese Investors Center (CT[)
The Center assists promoters of new projects and existing businesses that have plans to expand
operations. The CTI's assistance consists of developing the investment ideas of potential promoters and,
after analysis, proceeding with the financing of their feasibility studies. When that study is conclusive, the
Center can also help in finding sources of financing for the project.
For the financing of feasibility studies, the CTI has a Studies Fund (FPPS) limited to CFAF
150,000,000 by the Credit Agreement and which constitutes a State subsidy (investment and infrastructure
budget). The Center's operations are financed by private funds and the Credit Agreement envisaged
external technical assistance.
1.3 Mutual Guarantee Companies
The Credit Agreement envisaged the establishment of two mutual guarantee companies, one for
SMEs/SMIs and the other for small-scale artisan operations. The two companies were to provide a
guarantee or the necessary counterpart for loans granted by the banks to their members.
1.4 Enterprise Assistance Unit (DIVA)
DIVA is attached to Togo's Chanber of Commerce for Agriculture and Industry (CCAIT) and
serves to provide technical, legal and managerial assistance to small- and medium-sized local businesses.



-3-
1.5 Micro-enterprise support svstem
The micro-enterprise support system was to identify and design a pilot project for loans to micro
and small enterprises. The project, envisaged for a 3 - 5 year period, would essentially focus on the
informal sector in the urban and peri-urban region of Lome as well as cities outside the capital.
1.6 Support for privatization
Support for privatization was ensured by two privatization technical assistance contracts and
efforts to have the State withdraw from the public enterprise sector. Technical assistance was to be
overseen by the Ministry of Industry and State-Owned Enterprises. The total credit allocation to the
project [?component] was SDR 9,000,000. The project [?component] was scheduled to close on June 30,
1997 or any subsequent date decided by the World Bank.
11. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
An analysis of the major probicms encountered during project implementation is necessary to
understand the results more clearly.
2.1 Analysis of the main problems encountered by the proiect
2.1.1 Difficulties during startup of the line of credit
Since 1988 the lending rate to sub-borrowers under the line of credit had been the object of
discussions between the World Bank and Togolese authorities. An agreement was not reached until
February 199 1, when the rate was set at  11%.
2.1.2 Delay in setting up proiect support instititions
The Togolese Investors Center (CTI) did not get off to a strong start because of a delay in the
provision of the Study Fund (FPPS) resources that were needed if it were to operate following the
interministerial decree establishing the Study Fund that was signed on October 12, 1990.
2.1.3 Enterprise Assistance Unit (DIVA)
DIVA, as both a supervision and technical assistance entity, experienced the same problems as the
CTI. It also suffered from an apparent lack of coordination between its operations and those of the CTI.
2.1.4 Mutual Guarantee Companies
The two mutual guarantee companies envisaged by the Credit Agreement and for which the studies
were completed in 1991 could not be set up owing to the socio-political situation in the country.



-4-
2.1.5 Micro-enterprise support
The pilot project involving loans to small and micro-enterprises ran into major delays.
The contract for setting up the project was signed only on April 16, 1991, with the Canadian
Volunteers in Technical Assistance agency (VITA). Despite the efforts by the Government and the promise
by VITA that it would carry out its mission in January 1992, it took place only afterwards owing to the
very problems mentioned earlier.
2.2 Means implemented and results
2.2.1.1 Line of credit and its utilization
The Credit Agreement stipulated that the Association would make available
SDR 9,000,000 split between Parts A and B of the project.
Part A, i.e. SDR 7,130,000, was to be used to finance investment projects and training for
personnel of the Central Bank and the participating banks that were to appraise the investment projects.
Part B, i.e. SDR 1,870,000, was to be used to strengthen the institutions that were to provide
support to project operations.
- For Part A, actual disbursements in CFAF were limited to the first tranche of 165,469,877, of
which CFAF 11,000,000 was used to finance the ESIMO operation.
In point of fact, out of the four applications submitted to the Central Bank for financing under the
line of credit, only one, ESIMO, could be financed in 1992 before the project was suspended in 1994.
- Under Part B:
- an allocation of CFAF 33,093,936 was deposited into the Central Bank's Special
Account B and the balance of CFAF 12,397,395 after fund utilization was returned to the Association's
account;
- a payment of CFAF 31,470,000 was made to the ECOBANK account and the funds
were used essentially to finance logistical aspects of the operations of the Togolese Investors Center and
DIVA (Enterprise Assistance Unit).
2.2.1.2 Funds provided by the Borrower
In accordance with the Credit Agreement, the Study Fund was to be opened by the Borrower with
an initial payment of CFAF 150 million over 3 years. That payment was made only partially, in the form
of a first tranche of CFAF 50 million in August 1988. Moreover, the interministerial order that was to
entrust the administrative and financial management of the Study Fund to the CTI was not formalized until
October 12, 1990, i.e. two years after the payment of the first tranche of the initial funding.



-5-
Beyond that first tranche of CFAF 50 million, no additional funds were made available by the
Borrower before the project was suspended in 1994.
The Fund was used primarily to finance project reviews by the CTI, which managed the accounts.
2.2.2 Institutional means
From the institutional standpoint, except for the Togolese Investors Center (CTI) and the
Enterprise Assistance Unit (DIVA), some of the entities envisaged by the Credit Agreement were never set
up.
Moreover, during their lifetime, the two entities that were actually established (CTI and DIVA) did
not provide the necessary technical assistance envisaged under the project.  The dearth of technical
assistance, lack of mcanis and poor definition of their role, together with the unfavorable economic and
socio-political context in which they evolved, meant that the results achieved by the two institutions were
imperceptible.
The following entities were not set up:
- the two mutual guarantee companies contemplated by the Credit Agreement. Only the one for
SMEs/SMIs was established on November 16, 1990. That company, the Caution Mutuelle des PME
Togolaises (SCOCAMET), was to provide guarantees for loans made to members by Togolese banks.
Although it was set up, SOCAMET does not yet appear to be operational. The second company for the
small-scale artisan sector has not yet been established.
- the Joint Investment Fund, which was to encourage portfolio investments by private individuals
and businesses. The concept never got off the drawing board.
2.3 Technical assistance and proiect administration
The deficiencies in technical assistance were particularly apparent for the support institutions,
namely the CTI and DIVA. In point of fact, the technical assistance that was to be provided for the
launching of the CTI and carrying out of its mission was less than satisfactory. The first consultant from
the SORCA-BMB finn did not complete his engagement. At the request of the Togolese authorities, he
was replaced by another consultant who lasted only 10 months. As such, the continuity and support that
were to characterize promotional activities did not materialize. Moreover, the mission reports by the
consultants were not satisfactory in view of the terms of reference. As of this date, the CTI is run by the
sole Togolese counterpart.
With regard to project administration, there were problems with payment for services provided
during project implementation. Such was the case with the SAFECO firm, which prepared two project
audit reports (1990 and 1991) but was not paid until 1994, and SODI, which was engaged to study the
establishment of the mutual guarantee companies and VITA.
Regarding accounting, there was a delay in appointing a competent accountant to the project. The
project became effective in 1988 and the accountant was appointed only in 1993.



6-
Additionally, project supervision by World Bank missions did not provide sufficient assistance for
correcting the deficiencies identified in project identification or refocusing certain project objectives found
to be ill-suited to the country's new context. Instead of trying to understand the difficulties that the project
was running into and finding appropriate solutions, the missions insisted on examining the results envisaged
by the Credit Agreement and often turned a deaf ear to the Borrower's suggestions that the project be
modified.
III.   RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CONTRACTING PARTIES IN THE PROJECT'S
FAILURE
It is no exaggeration to say that, given the results, the project did not achieve its objectives and,
practically speaking, failed in all its components. This failure is the consequence of three elements that
essentially handcuffed the project's chances of success and point to the responsibility of the contracting
parties. These factors are:
- poor project design,
- project environment;
- project management and monitoring
3.1 Poor proiect design
Poor project design is evident in two respects, i.e. the conditions associated with the line of credit
(eligibility criteria, lending rate) and the functions of the support institutions (CTI and DIVA).
A misunderstanding of enterprise financing issues is at the root of the line of credit's
ineffectiveness. In Togo, the problem is not a lack of funds on the part of the banks for investment
financing, but rather the conditions for access to those resources (Togolese banks always have an excess of
liquidity), which put investors off. In the Togolese context, the line of credit as set up is not of interest to
either investors or the banks, which prefer to use their own resources since the lending conditions are
virtually the same and the risk of non-recovery is not shared in the case of the line of credit.
With regard to the support institutions (CTI and DIVA), the functions were not clear and their
supervision poorly planned.
3.2 Proiect environment
Although the project was designed against the backdrop of a sound economic and socio-political
environment at a time when there was true dynamism in the country's industrial sector, its implementation
unfortunately coincided with a strained socio-political context and a very difficult economic environment
that would have been unfavorable to any investment project.



-7-
3.3 Proiect manafement and monitoring
Project management and monitoring were undermined by the instability associated with project
oversight (four ministers in succession at MISE) and coordination (three coordinators) as well as the
underlying conflict between the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Planning in project coordination
and the slowness in setting up the project's functional and support bodies.
Moreover, the shortcomings in technical assistance for certain project components and the
difficulties frequently encountered in the implementation at the national level of certain recommendations
made following brief Bank missions were a factor in the poor results achieved by the project.
IV.  CONCLUSION AND LESSONS FOR THE FUTURE
- The project was substantially compromised by a series of serious constraints external to the
project. These were essentially exceptional and unforeseeable events such as strikes, social and political
troubles and a virtual shutdown of economic activity that had adverse effects on the investment promotion
climate.
For the future, when the macroeconoiic and political conditions are such that the project cannot be
carried out normally and efficiently, there should be a way of partially or totally suspending the project
until such time as the its activities can be resumed. Under such circumstances, it is difficult to evaluate the
results that the project would have achieved had it been implemented in a normal socioeconomic
environment.
-      Project design and  implementation  bore testimony  to numerous weaknesses and
inadequacies: utilization conditions for the line of credit that were poorly defined and ill-adapted to the
national context, poor demarcation of the roles of support entities, etc.
If projects are to be successful, implementation conditions must be flexible so that in the event of
difficulties or a change in the socioeconomic environment, the objectives can be reformulated and the
results regauged to be more consistent with the real conditions in the beneficiary country.
Moreover, project formulation must take into account the existence of complementary projects
under way that in part target the same users, so as to maximize the multiplier effects and synergy of
projects.
Project implementation was seriously compromised by a lack of rigor in its
implementation, in particular:
the selection of technical assistance for the support entities;
the delay in the provision of resources by the Borrower anid the difficulties of their release;
the difficulties in the relations and communication between the national coordination
officials and Bank missions.



-8-
The experience acquired in project implementation demonstrates that in the future an ongoing and
regular cooperation and monitoring system involving the Bank, the Borrower and, if there is a cash element,
the beneficiaries (private sector) must be operational as of project startup, with a view to resolving and
preventing administrative problems and others capable of undermining the project's chances of success.
V.  RECOMMENDATIONS
In view of the observations regarding the various project components, the difficulties that plagued
the project and its suspension in 1994, a number of recommendations must be made, first with regard to the
urgent need to set up a new line of credit because, despite the current excess liquidity of the banking
system, that system cannot truly respond to the financing needs of industry. A more appropriate type of
credit must be devised, with more flexible extra-bank conditions that take into account the limited financial
capacity of Togolese investors, the rate of return for domestic SMEs/SMIs and a sharing of risks among
investors [and] the State banking system. Lastly, the support entities will have to be reorganized for future
actions in order to optimize their role in the productive sector.






IBRD  141]96R3
St    . _       f3 BU RK I NA                    MALIR TAru AiY
]1-         jO  )4         _-  > ~~~~~FASO                                     V  PAL       N,E
i~~~~~ -ow Nloa,=ejrqriEAl R
P                                                                                   Ro\,  (  /   MOUndOUrJ    , 5 AD S C U 4 E A \ _ >., \ Z[, E Z / PA GE RI A
_ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ -oocc (oou  )?l~ Lo- - r - )                          ,       /
o    kc               /Cnsc nn               )
,6   an9 oG=o
_}0.          s}.                                        ( \                's 
           ~~~~~~K.
Oboou        Nrantoogou    ,Poa0a
_.D   <    g-!~K 
BaDssozl\\
C  E  NTR / 
9.                                                                    \
9'~~S b                                        S.
TRANSPORTATION
AND
POPULATION DENSITY                            .) 
1975 POPULATION DENS Ty B3 REG ON               -   -
PERSONS PER KR:                 ',
0-205
205 405                          P    L   A          E   A    U5
40 5 60 5                 5co 
-100 00
MAIN ROADS                tdw                    r     eakpame
R VE RS C peBw, 
-- -   REGION BOUNDARIES                       m ame
NTERNAT'ONAL BOUNDARIES
7.
_   .0.  .use 0 in* Sin"0Nots
cc,riuo.ccccccm  com                  T v Ablgbo
Toe20 nA  6. d                Igo                                                  Aneho
Irc  F co. Cool.IS.ocl
d@ry us coerV 0 to.ne c0A sacsGb .
AUGUST 1987









I M Ai; I 1 ;
Peg.  rt  No:            1432C- 6;
Tyr  e:        IR



