Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CA / "/63? T
Report No. 6677-TO
STAFF APPRAISAL kEPORT
TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 30, 1987
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
This docment has a restficted disibuion and may be used by redpienu only in the perfonanmce of
their official dufies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bank auth on



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0            =      CFAF 300
CFAF 1.0                 US$0.0033
SDR 1.0           -     US$1.278
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
APB       - Togolese Bankers' Association (Association
Professionnelle des Banques et Assurances au Togo)
BCEAO     - Central Bank of West African Monetary Union (Banque
Centrale des Etats d'Afrique de l'Ouest)
BIAO-TOGO - West African International Bank (Banque
Internationale pour l'Afrique de l'Ouest - Togo)
BTCI      - Togolese Bank for Commerce and Industry (Banque
Togolaise pour le Commerce et l'Industrie)
BTD       - Togolese Development Bank (Banque Togolaise de
D4veloppement)
CCAIT     - Chamber of Commerce, Agriculture and Industry
(Chambre de Commerce, d'Agriculture et d'Industrie
du Togo)
CEAO      - Western Africa Econvmic Community (Communaute
Economique des Etats d'Afrique de l'Ouest)
CNCA      - National Bank for Agriculture (Caisse Nationale de
Credit Agricole)
CNPPME    - National SME Promotion Agency (Centre National de
Promotion de la Fetite et Moyenne Entreprise)
CTI       - Togolese Investors Agency (Cencre Togolais des
Investisseurs)
DIVA      - Entreprise Assistance Unit (Division d'Assistance aux
Entreprises)
FPPS      - Studies Fund (Fonds de Participation aux Prestations
de Service)
GIPATO    - Togolese Interprofessional Artisans Association
(Groupement Interprofessionnel des Artisans
Togolais)
MPM       - Ministry of Planning and Mines (Ministere du Plan
et des Mines)
MISE      - Ministry of Industry and Public Enterprises
(Ministere de l'Industrie et des
Societes d'Etat)
SNI       - National Investment Company (Societe Nationale
d'Investissement et Fonds Annexes)
TOGOPROM  - Togolese Promotion and Development Agency (Societe
Togolaise de Promotion pour le D6veloppement)
SOTED     - Togolese Agency for Studies and Development
(Societe Togolaise d'Etudes et de Developpement)
UMOA      - West African Monetary Union (Union Mon6taire des
Etats d'Afrique de l'Ouest)
UTB       - Togolese Banking Union (Union Togolaise de Banques)
FISCAL YEAR
Government:     January 1 to December 31
Banking System: October 1 to September 30



FOR OMCIAL UVS ONLY
TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Togo
Beneficiaries:      Private enterprises in productive
sectors other than trade, real estate,
and primary agriculture. Private sector support
institutions.
Amounts              SDR 9.0 million (US$ 11.5 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Financ.al           Commercial and specialized banks
Intermediaries:   customarily involved in term lending
Proiect             The principal objective of the proposed Project
Descriptions      is to support the Government's policy of
fostering a stronger private sector, through the
introduction of appropriate policy, institutional
and financial measures. It would consist of the
following components:
1. Establishment of a new institutional support
system to provide promotional and extension
services to private enterprises, to be built
arounds (a) the newly created Centre Togolais des
Investisseurs (CTI), a referral-and-orientation
agency, set up and operated by private sector
entities including the Togolese Bankers'
Association, the Chamber of Commerca, and industry
groups, and (b) a separate unit within the Chamber
of Commerce (DIVA) to be restructured in order to
provide a range of extunsion services to private
enterprises. Both entities will focus their
activities on SMEs. The project will include
technical assistance and limited initial office
equipment to both CTI and DIVA.
2. Support to the Government's on-going program
of privatization of parastatals through (a) a
resident technical advisor to the Ministry of
State Enterprises and ad hoc consultancy services
to be provided by 3 financial institution with
relevant expertise in mergers/acquisitions and
enterprise restructuring, and (b) advisory
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officW duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



- ii -
services to support the establishment of a mutual
investment fund to facilitate the financial
participation of Togolese investors in the
privatization process.
3. A pilot scheme for microenterprise lending, in
collaboration with NGOs/PVas.
4.   A line of credit to finance fixed investments
and working capital of existing enterprises as
well as new projects. Of this, one-third would be
earmarked for financing small- and medium-scale
enterprises (SMEs). The line of credit will be
administered by the Central Bank and made
available to all sound banking institutions in
Togo. This component will also include training
on project economic analysis and technical
assistance to support a pilot mutual guarantee
scheme.
Onlending Terms     Funds onlent under the line of credit would be at
a final rate of 10 percent p.a. (9 percent p.a.
for SSEs), to be revised periodically in
conjunctior with adjustment of UMOA's interest
rates, and with maturities of 2 - 15 years
including grace periods of 1 - 3 years. The
foreign exchange risk would be borne by the
Government against a fee included in the final
lending rate.
Proiect Benefits    The Project will constitute the first
and Risks:        comprehensive program for the promotion and
development of private enterprise in
Togo. The integrated package of policy,
regulatory, institutional and financial measures
is expected to foster a stronger private sector,
strengthen existing enterprises and help generate
viable new projects. The emphasis on
labor-intensive SMEs would support the
Government's efforts to alleviate unemployment.
The main risks relate to (a) the sustainability
over time o; a private sector support system with
only minimal financial assistance from the state;
(b) the difficulty of generating a significant
pipeline of bankable SME subprojects, taking into
account the small size of Togo's industrial SME sector
and the usual reluctance of the banking system to
engage in SHE term financing; and (c) the uncertainties
of private sector response to the Government's
privatization efforts.



- iii -
Estimated Costs .a
Local           Foreian             Total
-…------------(Us$ million)   -     a
Institutional Support
Structure                          1.10               0.95              2.05
Privatization Program                0.65               0.85              1.50
Microonterprise Scheme               0.40               0.30              0.70
Line of Credit                       4.85               9.40             14.25
TOTAL                           7.00              11.50            18.50
a/ net of tax and duties
Financing rlan
Local           Foreian             Total
------------ (US$ million)-------------
IDA                               -               11.50            11.50
Government                      1.60                 -              1.60
Private Sector                  5.40                 -              5.40
TOTAL                           7.00              11.50            18.50
Estimated Disbursements 1I
FY88   FY89   FY90        FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97
-----------------(US$ million equivalent)--------------------
Amount        0.8 b/ 0.4    1.6    1.6   1.9   1.6   1.4   1.0   0.7   0.5
Cumulative    0.8    1.2    2.8    4.4   6.3   7.9   9.3  10.3  11.0  11.5
al Based on the standard disbursement profile for IDN projects Region-wide
b/ includes repayment of PPF
Economic Rate of          Not Applicable.
Returns
VAPID
June 1987



TOGO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Paue No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY . .................. ... .............    i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION   ........................**.* ......*** ......  1
II.  THE SETTING ................... . **.............................  2
A.  The Economic Environment .........................       2
1.   Background .....      .............................  2
2.   Past Performance ...................  .......... ..  2
3.   Recent Developments and Prospects ...........      3
B.  The Manufacturing Sector ........................*    3
1.   Overview and Performance ....................      3
2.   Structu:e ...........**************......... .     4
3.   Policy Framework .** **.......  ................   5
4.   Investment Promotion and Support Structure ..      6
5.   Parastatals Restructuring ...................      7
6.   Sector Prospects for Growth .................      8
C . The Financial Sector . ............       ..... ........    9
1.   Institutional Framework .....................    9
2.   Institutions in the Financial System ........      9
3.   Interest Rate Structure ........     ..........   10
4.   Resource Mobilization and Allocation    ........   11
5.   Prospects and Constraints ...................   12
D.  IDA's Role and Sectoral Strategy .................   13
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Togo in December 1986. The mission comprised J. Toureille (Mission
Leader), P. Sorsa (Economist), P. Dufour (Senior Operations Officer),
T. Mpoy-Kamulayi (Counsel), A. Kervyn de Lettenhove and J. Malkin
(Consultants). A. Buell and A. Wahi were responsible for the typing and
overall presentation of the report.
I



TUble of Contents (continued)
Pste No.
III*THE PROJECT                    ..............*..... .......        14
A.  Objectives ....14
B.  Project Policy Framework .........................          14
C.  Project Description  .............................          15
1.   Investment Promotion and Extension System ...         15
2.   Assistance in the Parastatals Privatization
Program  1.............i8
3.   Pilot Microenterprise Lending Scheme ........         19
4.   The Line of Credit ..........................         20
D. Project Implementation Arrangements and
Reporting Requirements                                   23
1.   Status of Project Preparation and
Implementation Schedule ...................         23
2.   Implementation Arrangements and Reporting ...         23
E. Project Costs, Financing Plan, Procurement
and Disbursement  .............................          24
1.   Project Costs .... .......................            24
2.   Financing Plan ............S.................         25
3.   Procuroment .................................         26
4.   Disbursement .......................  . . . .         26
F.  Project Benefits and Risks .......................          27
IV.   AGEEENS REACHED AND MECO)QENDATIONS                             28
A.NNEXE6



ANNEXES
Page No.
2-1       Major Indicators of Togolese Economy       ..................    31
2-2       GDP by Sector of Origin       ...............................  32
2-3       Distribution of Enterprises by Sector *      ................    34
2-4       GDP by Manufacturing Subsector ......... ...............    35
2-5       The Manufacturing Sector in Togo ......................    36
2-6       Policy Frameworkt Current Status and Reforms to
be Undertaken ....................................        40
2-7       The Incentives System in Togo (selected aspects) ......    44
2-8       Public Sector Enterprises: Operational Status.
Ownership and Summary of Operating Results ..........    50
2-9       Status of the Parastatals Privatization/Restructuring
Program   ................ 4 .................            55
2-10      Total Outstanding Credit to the Econojiy by Sector
and Term .................................................  62
2-11      Sectoral Credit Policy . * ................      ..... .    63
3-1       Statement of Private Enterprise Development Policy ....    64
3-2       Entrepreneurship Development Program ..................    70
3-3       Terms of Reference - Technical Adviser to CTI ..o ......    75
3-4       Terms of Reference - Technical Adviser to DIVA   ........    77
3-5       Technical Assistance to the Ministry of State
Enterprises           ......................              78
3-6       Terms of Reference - Technical Assistance to the
Mutual Investment Fund 9999 ...............................    80
3-7      Microenterprise Lending .       ......    .......... .............  82
3-8       Central Bank Refinancing Criteria .....................    84
3-9      Adjustment Mechanism of the Final Lending Rate ........    86
3-10      Pilot Mutual Guarantee Scheme .........................    88
3-11      Detailed Implementation Schedule ......................     90
3-12      Project Costs and Financing ..... o .....................    91
3-13      Projected Quarterly Disbursements .....................    93
4-        List of Documents in the Project File ..................... 94



TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      With the support of two Structural Adjustment Credits (SALs) and
successive IMP stand-bye, the Government of Togo has since 1983 introduced
major economic reforms designed inter alia to promote a more robust private
sector. Steps have been taken to raise agricultural output and income.
New fiscal and investment codes have been enacted. A reform program for
the public enterprise sector calls for a reduced role for the state and the
privatization of a number of parastatals. A forthcoming structural
adjustment program is expected to address further reforms in industrial
policy such as price controls, tariffs and quantitative restrictions. To
help achieve the expected response from the private industrial/small- and
medium-scale enterprise (SME) sector, however, it is important to put in
place appropriate support measures in the following areaas (a) streamlining
of business regulations and procedures; (b) replacement of the now defunct
investment promotion/extension services system, previously an ineffective
governmental agency, by a new structure cperated by and for the private
sector; (c) provision of credit to the private sector, including small
enterprises in the infcrmal sector which could evolve into the formal
sector; and (d) fostering a stronger private sector through the
privatization of selected parastatals.
1.02      The principal objective of the proposed Private Enterprise
Development Project (the Project) is to help implement the above-mentioned
support measures. The total cost of the Project will amount to
US$18.5 million equivalent, of which the proposed IDA Credit of
US$11.5 million equivalent to the Government of Togo will finance: (a) a
program of technical assistance for establishing and operating a new
private sector investment promotion/extension system built around (i) the
Centre Togolais des Investisseurs (CTI), a new referral-and-orientation
agency being set up by the Togolese Bankers' Association, the Chamber of
Commerce, and industry groups, and (ii) a separate unit in the Chamber of
Commerce, the Enterprise Assistance Unit (DIVA), to be set up to provide a
range of extension services to private enterprises including mostly small-
and medium-scale enterprises; (b) advisory services, to the Ministry of
State Enterprises for the implementation of an ongoing progrem of
privatization of selected public enterprises, and for the establishment of
a mutual investment fund that would inter alia facilitate the financial
participation of Togolese nationals in the privatization process; (c) a
pilot scheme for microenterprise lending; and (d) a line of credit for
investments and working capital of private enterprises through the banking
system, supplemented by training on project economic analysis and technical
assistance to support a pilot scheme for establishing mutual guarantee
associations.



- 2 -
II. THE SETTING
A. The Economic Environment
1.   Backaround
2.01      Togo is a small country (56,000 ki2) with a population of about
2.9 million (1984). It is a narrow strip of land, extending over more than
600km from south to north, and less than lOkm wide on average. The
country is bordered by Ghana, Burkina Faso and lenin, with a narrow
shoreline of about 50km on the Bight of Benin (map IBRD. 14196R2). With a
per capita income of about US$250 (1984), Togo ranks amongst the very poor
countries of the world. Its major resources are derived from agriculture,
phosphate rock extraction, and its role as a trade center. Agriculture,
both subsistence and cash crops (coffee, cocoa, cotton, palm kernels),
employs over 80 percent of the active population and accounts for
30 percent of GDP (1984) and 37 percent of the country's foreign exchange
earnings. Mining and manufacturing, employing together less than 5 percent
of the active population, account for 23 percent of GDP and 38 percent of
foreign exchange earnings. The mining and manufacturing sector is
dominated by phosphate rock mining, which accounts for 44 percent of the
sector contribution to GDP despite the fall in phosphate prices on the
world market. Traditionally, Togo has been an active center for regional
trade. Despite the recent setbacKs due to the currency liberalization in
neighboring countries and the temporary closing of the Nigerian borders,
traded commodities still contribute 27 percent (1985) to Government
revenues. Services and trade as a whole account for 46 percent of GDP.
2.   Past Performance
2.02      Until 1974, the Government of Togo pursued cautious economic and
financial policies and achieved rapid economic growth, with an average
annual growth rate of 7 percent in real terms, while maintaining internal
and external financial equilibria. During this period, the structure of
the economy gradually changed, with the share of mining and trade
increasing rapidly while agriculture declined. Some major export crops
(cocoa and coffee) stagnated due to insufficient incentives for farmers and
poorly conceived investment projects in the sector.
2.03      In 1975, government revenues doubled as a result of the
nationalization of phosphate mining and shortly thereafter of a fourfold
increase in phosphate prices. The Government embarked on an ambitious
public investment programs a number of state enterprises were created, and
new investments undertaken in the social sectors, infrastructure, luxury
hotel construction, public buildings and industry. However, many of these
proved unprofitable and contributed little to long-term growth. To
compensate for falling phosphate revenues in the late 1970s, the Government
resorted to large scale foreign borrowing on commercial terms. The
economy, initially boosted by the public investment program, started to
slow down and then declined, wnile serious imbalances developed in public
finance and the balance of payments, due to low returns on public



- 3 -
investments, a deterioration of the terms of trade and increased financial
constraints.
3.   Recent Developments and ProsDects
2.04      As of 1979, the Government launched a drastic economic recovery
program supported by successive DMP stabilization and stand-by arrangements
and two structural adjustment credits from IDA. The first SAL
(Credit 1365-TO) in 1983 focussed on establishing conditions for sustained
growth over the medium-term while attempting to stabilize the financial
situation in the short-term by reducing fiscal and current account
deficits. The second SAL (Credit 1599-TO) in 1985 had four main
objectives: (a) to achieve a further improvement of macroeconomic
management through better control of the public investment program with
emphasis on rehabilitation of existing investments; (b) to increase
agricultural output through a reform of the agricultural incentive
framework and a reinforcement of extension serviceos (c) to Improve the
performance of parastatals through a program of restructuring and
divestiture; and (d) to establish a better economic environment for private
enterprise development supported by the undertaking of several economic and
sectoral studies.
2.05      Despite the significant progress made under IDA and IMF supported
programs and the related substantial non-project external assistance,
Togo's economic and financial situation and prospects remain precarious
(Annex 2-1). Debt service accounts for about 43 percent of export earnings
and the overall relative debt burden is among the highest of all developing
countries, amounting to 94 percent of GDP in 1985. Overall growth
performance improved in 1984 (1.3 percent) and In 1985 (4.7 percent)
boosted by improved commodity prices and better agricultural output.
However, over the medium-term, the rate of economic growth is projected to
rise only slowly as external debt service will continue to be high. In
addition, the rising level of unemployment, particularly in the Lom6 area,
is adding to the pressure on the Government to further encourage the
development of labor intensive productive activities.
B.   The Manufacturing Sector
1.   Overview and Performance
2.06      Manufacturing plays a limited role in the Togolese economy,
contributing only about 7 percent to GDP (Annex 2-2). The formal
manufacturing sector consists of slightly over 100 enterprises (Annex 2-3),
concentrated in the Lome area and employing less than 1 percent of the
active population. The informal manufacturing sector is fairly active,
particularly in Lome and Sokod4, and accounts for about 50 percent of
manufacturing output. The manufacturing sector relies heavily on imported
inputs, and consists principally of import-substitution industries, with
only a few enterprises based on local resources.



- 4 -
2.07      The performance of the manufacturing sector has been
disappointing. During the first two decades after independence, 4ts growth
was below that of GDP. Thereafter, the sector was particularly affected by
the reduced demand in the country and in the region. Several large public
enterprises had to be closed, and private companies, especially those
related to construction and materials, were severely hit. The value added
of the sector declined by nearly 25 percent between 1982 and 1984. Only in
1985 did some signs of recovery emerge. But average value added remains
low (28 percent), which can be partially explained by the low level of
integration. Exports of industrial products are insignificant (cement,
steel products) and sold at prices close to marginal cost.
2.   Structure
2.08      A summary description of the sector and ite main branches is
presented in Annex 2-4.  The most important subsector is agro-industries,
which contributed 52 percent of the sector value added in 1985 (Annex 2-5).
The subsector is dominated by four large enterprises (a brewery, two soft
drink manufacturers and a flour mill), which account for more than one-half
of subsectoral value added and rely mostly on imported inputs. Second in
importance (16 percent of the sector value added) is the textile subsector,
which is likely to grow substantially following the recent restructuring
and privatization of Togo Textile Industry (ITT) - Togo Textile Company
(TOGOTEX). Other important subsectors are construction materials
(12 percent of value added), dominated by a clinker grinding unit, and
wood, paper and printing (10 percent of value added).
2.09      Public involvement in the formal industrial sector is substantial
and is concentrated in large companies. Public and mixed enterprises
account for 75 percent of sector output and 60 percent of employment,
although they comprise only 25 percent of the number of companies active in
the sector. The importance of the public sector may have constituted a
constraint to the development of SEEs, which, according to the limited
information available, have had only a limited contribution to the sector
value added and employment. According to a 1982 study, there were about
160 enterprises each with less than twenty employees in the formal
productive sector. Altogether, these enterprises accounted for 20 percent
of the value added and 30 percent of the sector employment. Apart from the
construction subsector, accounting for one third of the total, SNEs are to
be found principally in five subsectors only (clothing, electrical works,
printing, wood-working, garages). Metal-working and agro-businesses appear
to be substantially less developed than in other countries of the region.
In contrast, the informal sector is fairly active and diversified. The
number of artisans is reported to have increased from about 10,500 in 1977
to about 14,000 in 1980, representing approximately 1.5 percent of the
active population. Artisanal production contributes 7 percent of GDP,
represented mainly by tailoring, weaving, shoe-making and jewelry. Several
artisanal unions have been created (GIPATO and ASPAT in Lome) and a Chambre
des M4tiers is in the process of being established.



-5-
3.   Policy Framework
2.10      As part of the economic recovery program launched in 1983, the
Government has undertaken a number of industrial and trade policy reforms
(Annex 2-6). While the emphasis of the first adjustment program
(1983-1985) was on public finance, the second adjustment program
(1985-1987) more directly addressed the constraints impeding the resumption
of economic growth and the restoration of conditions more favorable to
business development. A new Fiscal Code was adopted in 1984 and a new
Investment Code in early 1985. The customs taxation system was slightly
simplified in 1985, and tariffs on certain goods were modified in April
1986. IDA financed studies on investment promotion, effective protection
and on selected aspects of the business environment, and a review of the
revenue aspects of the taxation system by the IM have provided a basis for
discussions with the Government on the ongoing policy reforms. Based on
this dialogue, the Government has formulated in consultation with IDA a
Statement of Private Enterprise Development Policy, which covers the major
elements of the reform program in this sector as an attempt to address the
deficiencies of the policy and institutional framework (para. 3.02 and
Annex 3-1).
2.11      A selective analysis of relevant aspects of the policy framework,
including the incentive system, is given in Annex 2-7. The main features
of the current policy framework are summarized belows
(a) The protection regime inherited at independence was not
particularly conducive to local resource transformation. Ad hoc
corrective measures were introduced gradually, but these resulted
in an extremely intricate system of taxation, with a high level
of dispersion, compounded by reference pricing and quantitative
restrictions, and with import monopolies affecting over
20 percent of all imports. The distortionary impact of the
taxation system is reflected in the high dispersion of effective
protection rates (ranging from -21 percent to 248 percent).
Negative rates prevail in resource-based industries, while high
positive rates are to be found mainly in import-substitution
activities.
(b) The Government has initiated various measures to promote exports.
The Customs Code includes a duty drawback system and exporters
can recover the "Taxes Generale sur les Affairest (TGA) on
exported goods, while export taxation was abolished in 1986. In
addition, a free zone has been in operation since 1968. The
major constreints remaining for exporters are the obligation to
obtain an export license and the absence of an export support
institution. In addition, since Togo is not a member of the
regional customs union (CEAO), Togolese exporters are at a
disadvantage vis-a-vis union members when exporting to a union
country.
(c) Price controls prevail, with three levels of controls depending
on the classification of the product concerned. About 75 percent



of all traded goods are classified in the most liberal pricing
category, howevert in practice, price controls have been largely
ineffective and have been undermined by smuggling.
(d)  EnterDrise registration is extremely complex since the required
permit has to be renewed every two to five years, depending on
the size of the company, after the first two years of operation.
(e)  A new Investment Code and a Charter for Togolese Enterprises was
promulgated in 1985. Although this Code marks a considerable
improvement over the previous one, major weaknesses remain to be
addressed, principally: (a) high access levels (investment
thresholds) to the various regimes of the Code and the Charter,
which tend to favor large capital-intensive investments; (b) duty
ecaption on equipment imports, which favors capital intensive
investments, and on intermediate goods, which does not encourage
vertical integration; (c) granting of special privileges to
enterprises with investments exceeding CFAF 3 billion (eligible
for the benefits of regime B of the Investment Code); (d) the
formula for calculating the value added based on market prices
and not on factor costs. It thus favors production for local
consumption rather than for export; and (e) absence of a
monitoring system to check whether projects under implementation
still meet the conditions which led to their being graDted
specific privileges by the investment commission.
4.   Investment Promotion and Support Structure
2.12      Sector responsibilities are shared by the Department of
Development Planning IDDP), in the Ministry of Planning and Mines, and the
Department of Industry and Artisans (DIA), in the Minietry of Industry and
State Enterprises. DDP is in charge of sector planning, review of
industrial projects and sectoral inputs. DDP also acts as Secretariat to
the National Commission for Investments and to the Committee for Togolese
Enterprises which administer benefits under the Investment Code and the
Charter for Togolese Enterprises. DIA is in charge of industrial
regulations, enterprise monitoring and implementation of artisan programs.
2.13      The Chamber of Commerce (Chambre de Commerce, d'Agriculture et
d'Industrie du Togo, CCAIT) is a grouping of most of the local professional
organizations, in particular, Groupement Interprofessionnel du Togo (GITO),
Syndicat Interprofessionnel des Entreprises Industrielles du Togo (SIEIT),
Groupement Togolais des PME CGTPME), and Association Professionnelle de
Banques (APB). While the Chamber of Commerce has developed a good base of
member-enterprises and is able to provide limited information to help its
members, it is currently not equipped to provide direct support and
assistance to enterprises.



- 7 -
2.14      There is currently no institution in Togo to provide potential
investors and existing enterprises with promotional and extension services
(e.g. assistance in preparing projects, applying for Investment Code
benefits, seeking bank financing, and post-establishment technical
assistance), since the closure of the state-owned Centre National pour la
Promotion dee Petites et Moyennes Entreprises (CNPPME) and the semi-public
Societd Togolaise de Promotion pour l Developpement (TOGOPROM) in 1982 and
1983 respectively, in view of their poor efficiency and high operating
cost.
2.15      In 1984, the Government initiated consultations with the business
and banking communities to discuss the need for a new promotional and
support structure. These led to the process of establishing the Centre
Togolais des Investisseurs (CTI), on the bi.sis of an IDA-financed
feasibility study carried out in May 1986, as a non-governmental
referral-and-orientation agency, sponsored and financially supported by the
private sector. The CTI will be supplemented by a division of the Chamber
of Commerce, which is to be restructured to provide a range of extension
services to enterprises, focusing on SMEs. In addition, the study
identified, along with SOTED (a semi-public consulting firm currently
supported by UNDPIUNIDO), a number of engineering and accounting firms
which have some capacity to assist Togolese enterprises in project
preparation and provide technical assistance.
5.   Parastatals Restructuring
2.16      Starting in 1975, with the quadrupling of phosphate prices, the
Government has undertaken a major expansion of the public enterprise (PE)
sector to include industrial units and hotels (Annex 2-8). However, public
enterprise performance has not been satisfactory. Most firms incurred
excessive costs and operating losses, constituting a heavy drain on the
national budget, which had also to assume foreign debt service obligations
of PEs beginning in 1978. State enterprises have also accumulated
substantial arrears with the local commercial banks. In the context of the
structural adjustment programs financed by IDA, the Government has taken
important steps to rationalize the PE sector. In late 1984, the Ministry
of Industry and State Enterprises (MISE) was established to act as a focal
point for monitoring the performance of state enterprises and to coordinate
ongoing and future efforts at reforming the parastatal sector. Shortly
after its establishment, MISE carried out a preliminary classification of
state-owned enterprises, dividing them into three main groups: those to be
retained in the public sector, those to be liquidated and those to be
privatized/restructured. Of a total of about 72 parastatals, eight were
liquidated and 24 others were slated for privatization. However, by the
end of 1985, the results of the. privatization program were limited, with
only four companies having been leased for a duration of five to ten years.
Three privatizations were carried out in 1986, through the sale of assets
or shares, and the privatization of the large textile complex, ITT-TOGOTEX,
is now nearing completion with IYC involvement (Annex 2-9). The
continuation and broadening of this restructuring effort will be critical



- 8 -
for the development of Togo's productive sector. The response of the
international business community remains uncertain. Private Togolese
investors are also largely unable to participate directly in these
takeovers due to their limited financial resources and managerial/technical
skills.
6.   Sector Prospects for Growth
2.17      Togo's strong agricultural potential, well developed
infrastructure, qualified labor force, relatively effective financial
sector, reliable service sector, and traditional commercial ties with
neighboring countries should constitute valuable assets in the Government's
efforts to restore growth in the industrial sector. Its small and
relatively poor population, however, limits the domestic market for
industrial output and opportunities for further development of efficient
import substitution industries. Lack of managerial skills and scarcity of
capital limit the scope for large scale projects. Therefore, artisanal
SMEs offer the best hope for efficient employment creation and industrial
growth. Thus, it is important for Togo to develop a policy framework and
an institutional environment conducive to entrepreneurship, focussing
principally on artisanal and SMEs.
2.18      Through its proposed program of reforms, outlined in the
Statement of Private Enterprise Development Policy (Annex 3-1) and
supported by the Project, the Government intends to introduce the necessary
changes in (a) the incentive and regulatory framework, (b) the investment
promotion and support structure, and (c) its role as an investor in the
productive sector. The reform of the incentive and regulatory framework,
to be partly undertaken under this Project and more broadly in the next
structural adjustment program (1987), will focus on (a) the promotion of
exports (e.g. cancellation of the export license), (b) the review of price
control procedures (cancellation of the system of price approval for
locally manufactured products), (c) the streamlining of the registration
procedures for enterprises, and (d) the simplification and harmonization of
the customs tariff and domestic indirect taxation system. Specific
measures to be included in a revised version of the Investment Code
(expected by 1988) will provide further encouragement to SMEs and
production for exports. The establishment with Government support of a
private-sector operated investment promotion and support system, around CTI
and the Chamber of Commerce, should pro-vide Togolese entrepreneurs with the
necessary back-up in preparing and implementing their investment projects
and in successfully operating their enterprises.
2.19      The Project aims at introducing stronger incentives for
term-lending by banks to SMEs, supplemented by the establishment of mutual
guarantee associations and a pilot scheme for lending to microenterprises.
The Government's withdrawal from productive activities will also enhance
opportunities for private investors to engage in industrial activities
currently under public control.



-9-
2.20      As indicated in a recent study on SMEs (para. 2.09), potential
for growth lies principally in industries which meet one or more of the
following criteriat (a) satisfaction of basic domestic needs, given the
smallness of the market and the low level of income per capita (food,
clothing, furniture, home utensils and domestic appliances, construction
materials); (b) low cost service activities linked with construction
(electricity, masonry, plumbing, carpentry), maintenance (garage, repair
shops) and low cost transport of goods and services; (c) material and
equipment for agriculture (machinery and tools, irrigation equipment,
packaging); and (d) industries producing for exports to the region.
Efficient import substitution opportunities would remain scarce, and
limited to cases where substantial gains in value added could be expected
through a better use of local resources or a higher level of integration.
The low-cost, well-qualified Togolese manpower should, in principle, lead
to the development of labor-intensive enterprises, contributing positively
to the alleviation of unemployment.
C.   The Financial Sector
1.   Institutional Framework
2.21      Togo is a member of the West African Monetary Union (UMOA),
together with six other francophone countries (Benin, Burkina Faso, COte
d'Ivoire, Mali, Niger and Senegal). The Union shares a common currency
(CFA franc) fully guaranteed by France and freely convertible into the
French franc at a fixed parity, a common Central Bank (BCEAO) and a common
framework of credit and monetary policies, which nevertheless permits
different monetary and credit targets for different countries. BCEAO is
administered by a Governor and a Board of Directors representing each
member state and France.  The Headquarters of BCEAO are located in Dakar,
Senegal, with a national branch in each member country.
2.   Institutions in the Financial System
2.22      Besides the national office of the regional Central Bank, BCEAO,
Togo's financial system comprises eight commercial banks (including two
ex-development banks), two specialized financial institutions, (Soci4t4
Nationale d'Investissement 1/ and the national savings bank), two leasing
1/   Societe Nationale d'Investissement (SNI) is a Government controlled
specialized financial intermediary, which manages a portfolio of
share-capital participations in and loans to public and mixed
companies. In addition, it administers, inter alia, two funds,
largely inoperative since their creation in 1982 (a Guarantee Fund and
an Interest Subsidization Fund), and a third fund, Fonds National
d'Investissement (FNI), funded by a temporary financial levy on
companies with an investment ratio lower than a legally prescribed
minimal level.



- 10 -
companies and five insurance companies. The banking system is dominated by
three banks (UTS, BTCI, BIAO-Togo), which, as of September 1985, accounted
for 63 percent of total assets, 72 percent of total deposits, and
54 percent of total credits.
3.   Interest Rate Structure
2.23      All lending and deposit rates in UMOA are regulated by the BCEAO.
Lending rates are set in reference to "normal* (TEN) and preferential*
(TEP) rediscount rates of the Central Bank with variable maximum allowable
spreads. Currently the preferential rate applies to seasonal agricultural
crop financing, small and medium scale national enterprises 21 and
low-cost housing. All other activities are subject to normal rates.
Current rates, in effect since their adjustment in September 1986, are
shown in the table belows
Interest Rates in UM4OA Countries
(in X)
Applicable       Authorized       Authorized
Discount Rates       Spreads        Final Rates
Preferential Activities
Marketing of Agricultural Produce   6                1-2              7-8
National SME                         6               1-3              7-9
Low-cost Housing                     6               1-3              7-9
Normal Activities
Trade, Industry, etc.              8.5               0-5           8.5-13.5
2.24      These rates are applicable to all loans, irrespective of their
maturities or the origin of resources, and, in principle, are inclusive of
all fees and commissions charged by financial intermediaries. In practice,
preferential loans are currently granted at the maximum rate permitted,
i.e. 8 to 9 percent. Loans which do not qualify for preferential rates are
made on average at rates between 11 and 12.0 percent 31 . In addition, a
service tax (TPS) of 10 percent of the interest is applied on most loans.
21  As per BCEAO, small and medium national enterprises are defined as
those which are managed and majority owned by nationals of UMOA
countries with outstanding credits not exceeding CFAF 30 million.
~I   Larger companies, however, secure their financing on the international
market where conditions are generally more favorable.



- 11 -
This brings the final effective cost of borrowings to about 10 percent for
preferential activities and to about 12.5 percent for all others. In light
of the prevailing and projected level of inflation in Togo, currently
4 percent and not expected to exceed 6 percent in the coming years
(Annex 2-1), these rates are substantially positive in real terms.
Interest rates on deposits vary from 4.25 percent to 8.0 percent depending
upon their amounts and terms. laterest on savings deposits, limited to
CFAF 5 million per account, is 6.5 percent. Interest rates on large
institutional short-term deposits are negotiable but rarely exceed the
average money market rate (currently 8.0 percent). Interest rates on
deposits are sumsarized in the table below.
Deposit Rates in UMA Countries
(in 2)
up to        Between    Between       Over
200,000      200,000    500,000       2,000,000
CFA?         CPA? and   CPAP and      CPAF
500,000    2,000,000
CPAF       CFAF
Current account                 0           N.R. la     N.R. /a      N.R. /a
Term depositss
Less than six months        4.25         4.75        5.25          5.75 (min)
6 months to one year        5.25         5.75        6.50         7.00 (min)
Over one year               6.25 (min)   7.00 (min) 7.50 (min)   8.00 (min)
Notes:
6 months to one year        5.25         5.75        6.50         7.00 (min)
Over one year               6.25 (min)   7.00 (min) 7.50 (min)   8.00 (min)
Savings accounts - 6.50X with a maximum of CFAP 5 million in deposit
per account
/a Not regulated
Source: BCEAO, September 22, 1986
4.   Resource Mobilization and Allocation
2.25      Despite incentives for longer-term deposits, virtually all
deposits with Togolese banks are of a short-term nature. Almost all time
deposits (which accounted for 55 percent of deposits totalling CFA? 102
billion as of September 1985) are for a period of less than six months,



- 12 -
with the majority being for a term of three months or less. The sharp
increase in deposits observed lately (51 percent between September 1983 and
September 1985), supplemented by the temporary cancellation of the
remuneration on current accounts, has resulted in a marked improvement of
banks' revenues. However, probably as a result of the more favorable
returns on placements in the money market, this increase has not been
matched by a corresponding increase in the credits to the economy, which
increased only by 16 percent over the same period. Banks have mainly been
active in the financing of trade, credit for trade related activities
accounting for about 49 percent of total outstanding credit to the economy
in September 1985 (Annex 2-10). While credit for trade related activities
increased by 48.5 percent between September 1982 and September 1985 (from
CFAF 16.9 billion to CFAF 25.1 billion), credit to industry dropped from
CFAF 19.8 billion to CFAF 11.2 billion during the same period - the
striking shift in the term of credit to industry (short-term credit
representing 37.4 percent of the total in September 1985 as opposed to
70.4 percent in September 1982) provides further indication of the
deterioration of the industrial sector's financial situation. Rather than
a reassuring trend in a sector where investment financing would justify a
high ratio of term loans, this shift might reflect the consolidation in
term loans of past due non-performing short-term loans made to industrial
enterprises. It is, however, clear that the short-term credit to the
industrial sector has dropped dramatically (by 58 percent between
September 1982 and September 1985), and it is therefore important that the
line of credit in the Project also help alleviate the shortage of credit
for working capital needs of existing enterprises.
5.   Prospects and Constraints
2.26      Despite its rising liquidity, the Togolese financial system has
been increasingly reluctant to lend to the industrial sector, in particular
to industrial SMEs. This could largely be explained by the financial
disarray of large industrial enterprises (mainly public and mixed
enterprises) - as it is only recently that privatization/restructuring
efforts of the Government have started to produce some results - and the
favorable rate of the regional monetary market, which has provided a strong
incentive for liquid banks to deposit their excess resources in monetary
accounts at the Central Bank. Indeed, from early 1983 until January 1985,
the money market rate has been higher or on par with the maximum lending
rate for SMEs. Even now, the interest rate allowed on loans to SMEs
exceeds the money market rate by only 2 percent, a margin that most banks
consider largely insufficient in view of the higher overhead, higher risk
and lower flexibility of resources lent to SMEs. The targeted credit
policy implemented by the Central Bank (Annex 2-11), which at any rate
should be considered only as a temporary measure to provide a boost to
specific sectors, has failed to achieve its objective. Most credit to SMEs
consists of short-term financing of commercial oDerations as opposed to
term-financing of manufacturing SMEs. Moreover, banks with liquidity
ratios in excess of the Central Bank morms have been barred from access to
the rediscount facilities of the Central Bank for lending to SMEs. The
former development banks, BTD and CNCA, which together have provided over



- 13 -
70 percent of SME term lending, have, for several years, been facing acute
portfolio problems and are in need of recapitalization.
2.27      It is expected, however, that the restoration of economic growth
in Togo and in the region, the restructuring/privatization of large
enterprises, and the provision of adequate incentives, will lead the
financial sector to gradually increase its involvement in industrial and
SME financing. The expected increase in the number of bankable projects
resulting from the assistance provided by the new promotion and extension
system, the provision of a more appropriate lending margin and the
introduction of new financial schemes such as mutual guarantee
associations, microenterprise financing and the mutual investment fund,
would offer additional incentives to financial intermediaries for providing
term loans to SMEs.
D.   IDA's Role and Sectoral Strategy
2.28      The main objectives of the two successive SALs were the
restructuring of the economy and the fostering of higher economic growth
through policy and institutional reforms and production incentives. To
complement and support this adjustment program, IDA sector lending is
focussing on areas where Togo has a comparative advantage and undeveloped
potential, with a view to supporting viable investments and reinforcing the
sectoral and institutional reforms undertaken under the adjustment program
and translating them into longer-term development gains.
2.29      Sectoral work in industry includes an industrial sector
memorandum in 1982 41 and a Country Industrial Strategy Paper in 1984. It
has provided the basis for IDA's dialogue with the Government on ways for
developing productive activities in the private sector. In consultation
with IDA, the Government has been preparing a comprehensive Statement of
Private Enterprise Development Policy which will provide the policy
framework for the Project (para. 3.01 and Annex 3-1). IDA's strategy to
support the Government's efforts for encouraging private initiative to
resume sustainable economic growth in the industrial/SME sector relies on
(a) fostering the development of an incentives framework and institutional
environment conducive to private investment, particularly in artisanal,
small- and medium-scale enterprises; (b) strengthening and rationalizing
the system of development finance, and increasing incentives for commercial
banks for lending to SMEs; (c) supporting the Government's ongoing program
of restructuring of parastatals through privatization/liquidation;
(d) increasing vertical integration in promoting the development and
processing of locally produced raw materials; and (e) contributing to the
development of managerial and technical skills through the implementation
of adequate training and extension programs.
4/   Togo - Industry, Finance and SME Promotion, Report 3890-TO, July 1982.



- 14 -
IIT. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives
3.01      In support of the major economic reforms already undertaken by
the Government under two successive structural adjustment programs, the
Project will aim at achieving a sustained supply response from the private
industrial/SME sector, by putting in place appropriate support measures as
followst (a) streamlining and simplification of business regulations
(enterprise registration procedure, export licensing) and prior to
December 31, 1988, revision of the Investment Code; (b) replacing the
defunct ineffective state-supported investment promotion/extension system
by a new non-governmental structure; (c) rationalizing and broadening the
parastatals privatization program; (d) providing financial resources and
incentives to the banking system to increase its lending to the
industrial/SME sector; and (e) studying and introducing new financial
instruments/mechanisms such as mutual guarantee associations, a
microenterprise lending scheme and a mutual investment fund.
B. Prolect Policy Framework
3.02      The adoption by the Government of the Statement of Private
Enterprise Development Policy will provide the policy framework for the
Project (Annex 3-1). The Government is actively pursuing its program of
policy reforms intended to encourage private sector initiative to restore
growth in the productive sector, putting special emphasis on artisanal, and
small- and medium-scale enterprises. The main features of this policy
framework for the development of the private sector bear ont (a) the
incentive and regulatory framework, (b) the investment promotion and
support structure, and (c) the role of the State as an investor in the
productive sector. The reform of the incentive and regulatory framework,
to be partly undertaken under this Project and more broadly in the
forthcoming structural adjustment program (1987), will focus on (a) the
promotion of exports (e.g. cancellation of the export license by March 31,
1988), (b) the review of price control procedures (cancellation of the
system of price approval for locally manufactured products), (c) the
streamlining of the registration procedure for enterprises (by March 31,
1988), and (d) the simplification and harmonization of the customs tariff
and domestic indirect taxation system. Specific measures, bearing
principally on investment thresholds, tax exemption on imports of equipment
and intermediary goods, and special privileges will be included in a
revised version of the Investment Code (expected by 1988), to provide
further encouragement to SMEs and production for exports. The
establishment with Government support of a private-sector operated
investment promotion and support system, around CTI and the Chamber of
Commerce, should provide Togolese entrepreneurs with the necessary back-up
in preparing and implementing their investment projects and in successfully
operating their enterprises. The Government's withdrawal from productive
activities will also enhance opportunities for private investors to engage
in industrial activities currently under public control. Finally, stronger
incentives for term-lending by banks to SMEs will be intzoduced,
supplemented by the establishment of mutual guarantee associations and a
pilot scheme for lending to microenterprises.



- 15 .
C.   Proiect Description
3.03      The Project would include the following four components:
(a) Assistance in the establishment and operation of a new private
sector-oriented investment promotion/extension system built
around (i) the Centre Togolais des Investisseurs, a
referral-and-orientation agency; and (ii) a unit (DIVA) within
the Chamber of Commerce to provide a range of extension services
principally to small- and medium-scale enterprises;
(b)  Support to the Government's ongoing parastatal privatization
program through the provision of technical assistance to the
Ministry of State Enterprises, supplemented by advisory services
to support the establishment of a mutual investment fund, that
would facilitate investment by Togolese nationals in the share
capital of large enterprises, particularly those being
privatized;
(c) A pilot program to lead to the establishment of a credit delivery
system for micro-enterprises.
(d) A line of credit to finance investment and working capital of
existing enterprises as well as new projects in the private
sector, including small- and medium-scale enterprises and
industrial parastatals being privatized, supplemented by training
in project economic analysis, and a pilot program to introduce
mutual guarantee schemes among selected groups of economic
operators;
3.04      In addition, in parallel to the Project, an Entrepreneurshil
Development Proztram is being introduced in Togo. This program, which uses
behavioral sciences techniques to select entrepreneurs with high potential,
reinforces their entrepreneurial orientation (using trainers/motivators)
and assists them in starting and running their enterprises, would train
trainers/motivators who in turn would select and train future entrepreneurs
and assist them in the development of their projects (Annex 3-2).
1. Investment Promotion and Extension System
3.05      The establishment of a new investment support structure is a
major objective of the Project. As a departure from the previous
promotional scheme directly operated by the Government, and closed down in
1982-1983 because of its high costs and poor efficiency (para. 2.13), the
new structure is being set up largely under the responsibility of the
private sector. It involves from the outset the various partners directly
concerned with investment activities - investors, private sector support
institutions and associations, consulting firms, banks, and relevant public
sector entities - and will provide assistance to existing enterprises as
well as new projects. This investment support structure is being built
around two main entities: (a) the Centre Togolais des Investisseurs (CTI),



- 16 -
a referral-and-orientation agency, and (b) a unit (DIVA) within the Chamber
of Commerce, to provide a range of extension services. The concept and
design ot the new system draw largely on the findings of an IDA-financed
consultant study (para. 2.15),with strong support by the concerned parties,
who have agreed on an action program and appointed an interim executive
committee to supervise its implementation (para. 3.25).
3.06      Centre Togolais des Investisseurs (CTI).  With promotion of
private enterprises as its mandate, CTI is to perform the following main
functions, focussing principally on SMEss (a) identification of project
opportunities and collection and dissemination of relevant information;
(b) identification of project sponsors and assistance in the search for
national and/or foreign partners;. (c) assistance to project sponsors in the
formulation and development of their initial project ideas; (d) referral of
project sponsors to and liaison with relevant agencies/organizations -
consulting firms, banks, the Chamber of Commerce and the Government;
(e) liaison and back-up in relation to applications for the benefits of the
Investment Code/Charter of Togolese Enterprises; and (f) general assistance
to enterprises during the start-up phase.
3.07      CTI is in the process of being established as an autonomous
private sector association formed and financed by the banks, the Chamber of
Commerce, and industry groups. The Government is encouraging this
undertaking and will provide limited financial support, without interfering
in the operation of the new system. An interim steering committee to
oversee the establishment of CTI has been appointed. Draft statutes have
also been prepared and an action program agreed upon, both satisfactory to
IDA. The opening of CTI for business will be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
3.08      Being essentially a referral institution, CTI will have a small
but qualified staff, consisting initially of two officers (one of whom will
act as secretary general) and two administrative personnel, assisted by a
technical expert specialized in SME development.  Operating costs,
estimated at US$150,000 per year in the initial years (excluding external
technical assistance) will be supported by membership fees, self-generated
revenues deriving from fees charged to end-users being expected to
gradually offset costs. The financing for three years of the resident
technical expert as well as some initial office equipment will be provided
under the Project (US$550,000). Terms of reference for the resident expert
are in Annex 3-3.
3.09      It is recognized that entrepreneurs are often in need of
consulting services in order to dndertake studies, in particular
prefeasibility or implementation studies, to develop their initial project
ideas. In keeping with its referral nature, CTI is not intended to carry
out such studies, which would require building up a staff capacity with a
resulting administrative cost well beyond its financial resources.
Furthermore, experience in Togo and elsewhere has shown that studies
carried out by state-supported promotion agencies generally lacked



- 17 -
credibility and had difficulty finding acceptance by the banks from whom
financing was requested. There exists in Togo a limited number of private
and mixed consulting firms (including SOTED) whose services could usefully
be contracted by local entrepreneurs (para. 2.15) at various stages of
project preparation and implementation. The cost of consulting services,
however, if these are to be contracted on a commercial basis, is likely to
be too onerous for many entrepreneurs, particularly for small projects.
Therefore, a special Studies Fvnd (Fonds de Participation aux Prestations
de Services - FPPS) will be established to help share with entrepreneurs
the costs related to consultants' services. This fund will be administered
by CTI and funded by a replenishable budgetary allocation of
CFPA 150 million, which is estimated to cover a two-year period. This
Studiea Fund, apart from benefiting entrepreneurs, is expected to help
develop the nascent local consulting industry in Togo. The final
establishment of FPPS, and in particular the transfer to a special account
managed by CTI of the initial budgetary allocation, will be a condition of
Credit effectiveness.
3.10      Extension Services to Enterprises (DIVA).  While CTI is to
operate as a referral agency principally during project preparation and
development, there is a need for a complementary entity responsible for
providing the range of extension services to support the day-to-day
operations of enterprises, in particular the smaller ones with limited
means and skills. This entity is to be established within the Chamber of
Commerce, in a restructured unit, 'Division Assistance aux Entreprises'
(DIVA). The location of this entity within the Chamber of Commerce, which
is the grouping of most of the economic interest groups and associations
operating in Togo, is intended to put the responsibility for the provision
of extension services to private enterprises in the hands of an
organization which, like CTI, emanates from the private sector. DIVA's
restructuring is in process, based on the recommendations of a consultant
study commissioned recently by the Chamber of Commerce. The role to be
played by DIVA in providing extension services will be reflected in an
agreement satisfactory to IDA to be signed between the Government and the
Chamber of Commerce. This will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
3.11      DIVA's functions will include the provision of (a) technical
information on manufacturing projects, industrial equipment, alternative
technologies and potential sources of supply for both raw materials and
machinery; (b) legal orientation; (c) preparation and dissemination of
standard management tools such as accounting plans, inventory control
systems, personnel management systems, marketing plans; and
(d) trouble-shooting advisory services on an ad hoc basis in collaboration
with CTI. To discharge these functions, DIVA would be organized in three
sections, a technical information center, a legal section and a training
and extension section. The latter would also, in coordination with CTI,
provide referral guidance to entrepreneurs facing operational problems.
The Project would finance a resident technical adviser for two years to
help set up the restructured unit and contribute to its subsequent



- 18 -
operations in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA
(Annex 3-4), and initial equipment needs (US$375,000). Operating costs
would be covered by the Chamber of Commerce, but gradual cost recovery from
end users will be sought.
2. Assistance in the Parastatals Privatization Proaram
3.12      In support of the Government's attempt to rationalize and broaden
its ongoing parastatals restructurihg/privatization program (para. 2.16),
and to encourage an increased participation of Togolese investors in this
process, the Project would provide financing for (a) advisory services to
MISE; and (b) technical assistance for the establishment of a mutual
investment fund.
3.13      Advisory Services to the Ministrv of lndustry and State
Enterprises (MISE), focussing on privatization of parastatals, would
consist of a resident adviser in restructuring/privatization for two years
backed-up by ad hoc services (twelve man-months) from the adviser's
institution/firm. The terms of reference for this assistance (Annex 3-5),
which is expected to apply to a portfolio of about twenty parastatals,
would include (a) assistance in refining the overall privatization policy
and in reviewing from time to time the classification of the parastatal
portfolio (para. 2.15); (b) for each enterprise slated for privatization,
preparation of a privatization dossier based on a strategic evaluation of
the enterprise concerned 5/; and (c) assistance in identification of and
negotiation with potential privatization partners and in evaluation of
offers. The resident adviser would also be expected to assist the
Government in reviewing the privatization arrangements already in force in
order to ensure their appropriateness or alternatively with a view to
renegotiating them. He would provide assistance in the identification of
parastatals, currently classified as those to be maintained in the public
portfolio, and which might, however, be suitable for partial or total
privatization.
3.14      It is expected that the services of the resident adviser will
come from a merchant bank or a specialized financial Institution with
requisite experienre in international mergers, acquisitions and enterprise
S/   The privatization dossier is expected to includes (i) a description of
the current facility (output, equipment, labor force, financial
performance); (ii) the proposed activities of the restructured
company; (iii) technical and financial requirements of the
restructuring, in particular the need for additional financing;
(iv) impact on the existing labor force; (v) an assessment of the
present value of the enterprise as an ongoing concern; and (vi) a
recommendation on the most appropriate privatization method (sale of
capital, sale of assets, lease, management contracts).



- 19 -
restructuring. The resident expert's services will be supplemented by ad
hoc short-term back-up consulting services to be provided by the
institution/firm, whose international network would be expected, in
particular, to help the Government in the search for potential foreign
partners, and which may be required to provide specialized sectoral
expertise in specific cases. The cost of both the resident adviser and
back-up consulting services is estimated at US$700,000. Recruitment of the
resident adviser will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
3.15      Mutual InvePtment Fund.  Technical assistance will also be
provided to the Ministry of Economy and Pinance (in coordination with the
Central Bank and SNI) in the proposed establishment of a Mutual
Investment Fund (open-end fund). Such a financial intermediary typically
holds a portfolio of shares and bonds in corporate enterprises (and would
therefore have a variable capitalization) and, in turn, issues its own
shares/bonds which are subscribed by institutional and individual
investors. The mutual fund would play a key role in facilitating the
participation of Togolese investors in the privatization process and
contributing to the deepening of the Togolese financial system through the
introduction of a new tool which could constitute a first step toward the
creation of a capital market in Togo.  The main advantages to be derived
from the establishment of the mutual fund would be as follows: (a) it would
act as a damper between companies and investors, as the performance of the
fund portfolio would result from the cumulative performance of the
individual companies whose shares are being held in the portfolio,
therefore reducing the risk exposure for inexperienced/uninformed small
shareholders; (b) it would substantially improve the term transformation of
resources and constitute a more effic4ent outlet for domestic individual
and institutional creditors (social security, pension fund, OPAT),
currently depositing their excess resources in low yield short term
deposits; (c) it would reduce the risk for majority shareholders (hence
increasing their willingness to open the capital of their companies) of
being exposed to direct confrontation with inexperienced/demanding minority
shareholders; and (d) it could facilitate a phased reduction of the
Government share in parastatals, while ascertaining that ownership remains
under Togolese control. Under the Project, technical assistance
(9 man-months) would be provided in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA to help define the most appropriate organizational
set-up for the fund and subsequently establish this new institution and
provide advice during its start-up phase Annex 3-6. Agreement has been
reached with IDA on an implementation schedule, with the establishment of
the fund to occur prior to November 1988.
3.   Pilot Microenterprise Lending Scheme
3.16      The proposed Project, representing IDA's first attempt at
financing SMEs and industrial enterprises in Togo, does not contain any
specific arrangements for assisting microenterprises, that is, the smallest
enterprises operating in the informal artisanal sector. This is on account
of difficulties inherent to microenterprises when operating in the formal
system, as they are confronted with considerable problems in their dealings
with the administration and with traditional banks, therefore justifying
the setting-up of specific support mechanisms and institutions. Such



- 20-
schemes, in order to be successful, would require the intervention
alongside the formal banking system, of appropriate non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), possessing intimate L.owledge of the microenterprises
and acting as conduits between them and the lending banks, taking stock
inter alia of the experience if the on-going IDA financed NGO-project in
Togo. At this time, however, IDA's knowledge of the informal,
microenterprise sector in Togo is insufficient to enable it to formulate,
in a timely manner, a microenterprise lending scheme with reasonable
prospects for successful implementation. An Important objective of both
the Government and IDA, however, is to work toward such a lending scheme,
so as to allow the large number of informal enterprises in Togo access to
institutional credit. Accordingly, the proposed Project would finance, at
an estimated cost of US$300,000, a pilot program including upto two
staff/years of technical assistance. Although the scheme should ultimately
principally resort to NGO/PVOs, advisory services would be financed under
the Project to help identify target groups, define the required
promotionallextension mechanisms and the appropriate lending instruments
and conditions, and subsequently provide the necessary operational support
(terms of reference in Annex 3-7). Progress on the scheme will be reviewed
periodically by the Government and IDA, according to an action program
satisfactory to IDA to be prepared by the Government (MISE) prior to
December 31, 1987.
4.   The Line of Credit
3.17      Institutional Arrangements.  The line of credit (US$9,000,000) in
this Project would be made available under an apex arrangement to all sound
Togolese banking institutions, with the national branch of BCEAO (Central
Bank) acting as the apex institution and administering the line of credit
on behalf of the Government. The functions and responsibilities of the
Central Bank as executing agency of this component will be defined in a
protocol to be signed between BCEAO and the Government, which will be a
condition of Credit effectiveness. In view of its extensive role in
regulating the financial sector, including refinancing both short and
medium term loans, the Central Bank is the most suitable institution to
administer the line of credit. Although in practice the line of credit is
likely to be mostly used by the three major commercial banks and two
specialized banks, all Togolese primary banks customarily involved in term
financing in compliance with the Central Bank refinancing criteria
(Annex 3-8), will be eligible for access to the line of credit. Adherence
to these criteria, required to insure that the participating banks are
financially and operationally sound, will be closely monitored by IDA
during supervision missions. The proposed arrangements would provide for a
wide participation of the banking network, in line with the Central Bank's
objective of expanding the involvement of commercial banks in term lending
to priority sectors. It would also facilitate access to the line of credit
by clients of all banks. Participating primary banks will enter with the
Central Bank into onlending agreements defining the terms and conditions
for refinancing from the line of credit. A circular outlining the
conditions and procedures for the utilization of the line of credit,
including a standard onlending agreement, will be prepared by the Central
Bank, in consultation with IDA; its enactment will be a condition of credit
effectiveness.



. 21 -
3.18      Eliaible Beneficiaries and Subproiects.  The line of credit would
finance investments and working capital for new projects as well as
existing enterprises in need of expansion or rehabilitation. All
productive economic activities would be eligible with the exception of
primary agriculture, trade, and real estate. Subprojects, to be eligible
for financing under the Project, must have a financial rate of return (FRR)
and an economic rate of return (ERR) of at least 10 percent on the overall
investment. For subloans below US$200,000, only FRR calculations would be
required. To ensure a sound financial basis of beneficiary enterprises,
they will be required to have a debt to equity ratio of not more than 3:1
(taking into account the proposed loans) 6/, a debt servicing ratio of not
less than 1.5sl, and a net worth and cash flow of at least 5 percent of
their annual turnover.
3.19      In line with the Project's emphasis on SMEs, one-third of the
line of credit or US$3 million would be earmarked for financing SME
enterprises/subprojects defined as those: (a) with total assets (including
the proposed investment) not exceeding CFAF 300 million (which constitutes
the ceiling for enterprises eligible for the benefits of the Charte des
Entreprises Togolaises), and (b) requiring subloans not exceeding
CFAF 150 million. This earmarking would ensure that smaller enterprises
will receive an adequate share of the line of credit. Furthermore, to
ensure that the Project will benefit a reasonably large number of
beneficiary enterprises, a ceiling of CFAF 350 million will apply on all
subloans to any single enterprise.
3.20      Subloan Processing and Administration.  Processing procedures
under the Project would to a large extent be patterned upon existing
Central Bank rediscounting procedures. In line with these procedures, all
subloans proposed to be financed under the line of credit would be
submitted by the participating banks to the Central Bank. The Credit
Department of the Central Bank would review the subprojects to ensure
compliance with its existing credit regulations as well as additional
project criteria (para. 3.18). In view of the involvement of untested
financial intermediaries, the first three subprojects from each
intermediary would be subject to IDA review. Thereafter, assuming
satisfactory standards, an appropriate free limit per intermediary, not
exceeding US$200,000 per subloan, would apply if deemed appropriate by IDA;
All subproject submissions to the Central Bank would be in accordance with
IDA's normal standards for IDF subprojects, including an economic analysis
for subprojects exceeding the free limit.
3.21      Training in Economic Analysis.  The Credit Department of the
Central Bank, which routinely reviews most credit applications made to the
banking system, is deemed to have the capacity to efficiently administer
6/   4:l for eligible SSEs, i.e. enterprises with outstanding credits not
exceeding CFAF 30 million.



-22 -
the line of credit, without requiring administrative arrangements for
strengthening it or advisory services under the Project. However, while
the staff of the Central Bank as well as primary banks are considered as
having adequate capability in undertaking technical and financial analysis
of subprojects, they are relatively unfamiliar with economic analysis. The
Project will therefore finance (US$100,000) training of the staff of the
Central and participating banks in project economic analysis through group
seminars by an experienced consultant in cooperation with the Bankers'
Association (Association Professionnelle des Banques - APB) and under the
coordination of the Central Bank.
3.22      Onlending Terms and Conditions.  The final onlending rate to
beneficiary enterprises would be 10 percent (9 percent for SSEs), which
represents an intermediate level between the rate applicable to
preferential credits (including SMEs) and that applicable to ordinary
credits (par&. 2.23), as computed on a basis given in Annex 3-9. This rate
(which amounts effectively to 11 percent inclusive of the TPS) is
substantially positive in real terms. Annual inflation in 1985 was
4 percent, and is not expected to exceed 6 percent in the coming years. In
the event the UMOA interest rates (which are subject to revision from time
to time) are modified by the UMOA monetary authorities, the Central Bank
will correspondingly adjust the onlending rate according to the mechanism
defined in Annex 3-9. with the new onlending rate to apply only to new
subloans. The spread accruing to participating banks would be set at
the arithmetic average between the TEN and TEP average spreads,
e.g. 4.5 percentage points, which is considered a sufficient incentive.
Maturity of subloans to subborrowers would be between 2 and 15 years,
inclusive of grace periods ranging from one to three years.
3.23      Funds onlent under the line of credit to participating banks
would be in local currency, with maturities based on a flexible schedule
corresponding to the aggregated amortization schedules of the subloans to
final beneficiaries. Passing on the foreign exchange risk to the final
borrowers in Togo is not feasible on account of the prevailing UMOA
regulations, which do not allow banking institutions to make foreign
currency denominated loans. Furthermore, exposing SMEs, which constitute a
major target group of the line of credit, to the foreign exchange risk
would be inappropriate due to their lack of sophistication and inability to
appreciate the implications of fluctuations in foreign currencies. The
Government would hence cover the foreign exchange risk out of the
differential between the cost of the funds onlent to financial
intermediaries and the cost of the IDA resources.



- 23 -
3.24      Mutual Guarantee Associations.  To encourage term lending to SMEB
by the banking system, the Project attempts to address the risk associated
with SME term lending through the financing of technical assistance to
support the establishment of two mutual guarantee associations (one
grouping SMEs and the other informal artisans in the Lom4 area). The
design of this scheme is based on the findings of an ILA-financed study
conducted in June 1986 (Annex 3-10). These associations would guarantee up
to two-thirds of the lending risk on individual subloans received by their
members, and would in turn receive a counter-guarantee from the SNI-managed
guarantee-fund on their overall operations. Through this pilot scheme an
attempt will be made to mutualize the lending risk among homogeneous groups
of borrowers, with the expectation of eventually extending the benefits of
such a scheme beyond the scope of this Project, to most term financing
activities. A resident technical adviser, from a specialized foreign
financial institution, would be financed for two years (US$300,000), in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA (Annex 3-5). This
pilot scheme will be managed by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, in
coordination with the Central Bank and primary banks. Agreement has been
reached between the Government and'IDA on an implementation schedule, with
the establishment of the first association to occur prior to April 1988.
D. Proiect Implementation ArranQements and Reporting Requirements
1.   Status of Prolect Preparation and Implementation Schedule
3.25      A PPF advance of US$550,000 was approved in December 1986 to
finance inter alia (a) initial technical assistance and investments for
CTI; and (b) initial technical assistance to support the privatization
program. An interim Steering Committee was set up in Oecember 1986 to
oversee the establishment of CTI and an action program was agreed upon by
its founding members. Terms of reference have been prepared for the
technical advisory services to CTI, and proposals have been invited from a
short list of consultants. A preliminary action plan is being prepared for
the Enterprise Assistance Unit (DIVA) within the Chamber of Commerce.
Arrangements and terms and conditions of the line of credit have already
been discussed with the Central Bank. An implementation program based on
the June 1986 prefeasibility study on mutual guarantee schemes will be
prepared in October 1987 as well as the feasibility study on the mutual
investment fund using bilateral and PPF financing. The detailed
implementation schedule is in Annex 3-11.
2.   3mulementation Arrangements and ReRorting
3.26      Because of the multicomponent nature of the Project, overall
coordination will be essential, and placed under the responsibility of a
project coordinator to be appointed by September 30, 1987 by the Ministry
of Planning and Mines, with quarterly summary reports forwarded to IDA.
Since the Project is the first of its kind in Togo, however, and includes
substantial innovations, sustained IDA supervision will be required as well
as detailed reporting from implementation agencies, at least during the



- 24 -
start up period. The line of credit will be managed by the Central Bank as
well as the program leading to the establishment of the two pilot mutual
guarantee associations. In addition, the APB, in coordination with the
Central Bank, will be responsible for the organization of seminars on
project economic analysis. Participating primary banks would be
responsible for supervising the subprojects financed by them and would be
required to submit to the Central Bank semi-annual progress reports on
these subprojects. The Central Bank would review these reports and make
available a summary to IDA within two months of submission by primary
banks. The Chamber of Commerce would monitor the technical assistance
supplied to DIVA. Quarterly progress reports will be prepared both by CTI
and by DIVA for the Government (MPM) and for IDA. MISE will prepare a
quarterly progress report on the assistance provided to it under the
Project. The establishment of the mutual investment fund will be conducted
under the supervision ef the Ministry of Economy and Finance, in close
liaison with the Central Bank, and a quarterly progress report prepared for
IDA. The microenterprise scheme will be supervised by the Ministry of
Planning and Mines and progress reports prepared for IDA upon completion of
key phases.
E.  Project Costs, Financing Plan. Procurement and Disbursement
1.   Proiect Costs
3.27      The Project costs are estimated at US$18.5 million and would
include (a) US$2.05 million to support the establishment of the investment
support structure; (b) US$1.50 million to support the privatization
program; (c) US$0.70 million to undertake the microenterprise scheme; and
(d) the line of credit of US$9.0 million to finance new projects and the
rehabilitationlexpansion of existing enterprises in the private sector,
supplemented by equity contributions by enterprises estimated at
US$4.5 million, and training and supporting schemes (paras. 3.21 and 3.24)
for an additional amount of US$0.75 million. Based on a three-year
commitment period, the amount of US$9 million of the line of credit would
represent about 7.52 of credits (both medium- and short-term) to the
industrial sector in Togo, which have averaged US$40 million equivalent
annually over the past several years, and 2.5? of credits to the economy,
which have averaged US$200 million a year (Annex 2-10) Project costs,
detailed in Annex 3-12, are summarized in the table below.



-25 -
Project Costs a/                       Local         Foreign           Total
----------(US$ million)-----
Institutional Support
Structure                             1.10            0.95            2.05
Privatisation Program                   0.65             0.85           1.50
Microenterprise Scheme                  0.40             0.30           0.70
Line of Credit                          4.85             9.40          14.25
TOTAL                                 7.00           11.50           18.50
aj net of tax and duties
2.   Financing Plan
3.28      IDA would contribute US$9.0 million to the line of credit and
equity contributions of beneficiary enterprises are estimated at
US$4.5 million. Consulting services and equipment for the promotional
structure, assistance to the privatization program, establishment of mutual
guarantee associations and a pilot scheme for microenterprise lending,
amounting to US$2.5 million, would be financed by IDA. The private sector
would support the operating costs of the promotional structure and the
Government/private sector would contribute to 100 percent of the financing
of the FPPS (para. 3.09). With respect to the privatization program, while
IDA financing would cover 100 percent of the proposed cost of technical
assistance, the Government would finance the counterpart staff and the
financial restructuring costs prior to privatization. The Mutual
Investment Fund would be financially autonomous, apart from the cost of the
technical assistance to be financed by IDA. IDA would finance 100 percent
of the cost of technical assistance needed to conduct training on project
economic analysis, while the Central Bank/participating banks will cover
all the costs related to the line of credit administration. IDA financing
would cover 100 percent of the costs of technical assistance to the mutual
guarantee associations, whose operating costs and resources would be
contributed by the members and by the Government (see para. 3.24 and
Annex 3-10). Finally, the costs of the technical assistance for the
microenterprise scheme will be 100 percent IDA-financed. Cofinancing is
being explored for expatriate technical assistance, especially where
foreign NGO/PVOs are expected to be involved. A detailed financing plan is
provided in Annes 3-12 and a summary breakdown shown in the table below.



- 26 -
Pinancina Plan                         Local         Foreiin           Total
___--__----t (US$ million) ----------
IDA                                       -            11.50           11.50
Government                              1.60              -             1.60
Private Sector a/          5i 5.40                        -             5.40
TOTAL                                 7.00           11.50           18.50
pi Includes US$4.5 million in estimated equity contribution by enterprises.
3.   Procurement
3.29      Essentially, procurement of equipment and goods under the line of
credit component would not be suitable for international competitive
bidding, given that loan proceeds are expected to predominantly finance
either SME8 or restructuring operations Involving partial replacement or
upgrading of equipment and spare parts. The size of a subloan under the
apex line of credit is limited to a malimum of CFAF 350 million
(para. 3.19). Procurement for both new investments and restructuring would
therefore be in accordance with commercial practices.  Participating banks
would be required to ensure that the goods and services to be financed
under a subloan are obtained at most competitive reasonable prices, and
therefore will require the final borrower to obtain price quotations from
at least three suppliers. Compliance with this requirement by the
participating banks will be monitored by the Central Bank and selectively
reviewed during supervision missions by IDA. Procurement of services for
the tecbnical assistance, consultancies and studies would be in accordance
with IDA guidelines for use of consultants.
4.   Disbursement
3.30      Disbursements under the line of credit would be made on the basis
of the lesser of 100 percent of the amount of subloans or 70 percent of the
total cost of a subproject, the latter representing the estimated direct
and indirect foreign exchange costs. Disbursement for advisory services
and studies would be on the basis of 100 percent of costs. Statements of
expenditures (80s) would be used for expenditures not exceeding US$200,000
equivalent under the Credit. Disbursement requests under the line of
credit would be submitted by the Central Bank; all other requests would be
submitted through the Project Coordinator by the respective implementation
agencies. All documentation for SOts will be kept by the Central Bank for
disbursements under the line of credit and by the Project Coordinator for
all other disbursements. Special Accounts of SDR 400,000 (special
account A) and SDR 80,000 (special account B), representing about four



- 2? -
months' ezpenditures, would be established at the Central Bank to expedite
disbursements respectively under the line of credit and for all other
expenditures.
3.31      The Central Bank and the Project Coordinator respectively would
maintain records to reflect the operation of the line of credit and
disbursements for advisory services and studies, in accordance with
accounting principles consistently applied and in a form satisfactory to
IDA. The related accounts, including Special Accounts for the proposed
Project, would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA. The audit report would express an opinion regarding the reliability
of the statements of expenditures to support claims for disbursements and,
specifically, whether such claims are supported by adequate documentation
and properly reflect the expenditures eligible for financing under the loan
agreement, as well as regarding compliance with credit conditions and the
adequacy of the Central Bank's internal controls. The audit reports, with
scope and format satisfactory to IDA, would be submitted to the Bank not
later than four months after the end of each fiscal year. In accordance
with the disbursement schedule given in the Project summary and in
Annex 3-13, which is based on the standard disbursement profile for ID?
projects Region-wide, the IDA Credit would be disbursed by June 30, 1997.
P.   Proiect Benefits and Risks
3.32      Proiect Benefits.  The Project would constitute the first
comprehensive program to be initiated In Togo for the promotion of and
assistance to private entrepreneurs and enterprises, focussing principally
on small- and medium-scale enterprises. The integrated package of policy,
regulatory, institutional and financial measuresicontained in the Project
is expected to yield substantial benefits to Togo. The general thrust as
vell as specific steps envisaged in the Government's Policy Statement on
Private Enterprise Development, notably the streamlining of business
regulations and the proposed revision of the Investment Code, are expected
to create an enavironment more conducive to private sector investments and
operation. The new Institutional structure for investment
promotion/extension, directly involving such major economic operators as
the Chamber of Comerce, the banking coumunity and business groups, is
expected to be responsive to the needs of the private sector. The line of
credit, besides providing finance for both new and rehabilitation
investments, would put in place an apex mechanism and pilot mutual
guarantee mechanisms designed to foster the active participation of the
banking system in term lendig and SHE financing. The technical assistance
for the ongoing parastatal privatization program would accelerate and
rationalize this process and thus, together with the expected introduction
of a mutual investment fund, contribute to enhancing the role of the
private sector in productive activities. The proposed establishment of the
mutual guarantee associations and the mutual investment fund, as well as
the initiation of a pilot program on microenterprise lending, is expected
to lead to Innovations in the financial system that would particularly
benefit small savers and small entrepreneurs, not only in Togo but possibly
in other comparable socio-econmic  nvironmAnts in Western Africa.



- 28 -
3.33      Proiect Risks.  The m#in risks relate to: (a) the sustainability
over time of a private-sector support system with only minimal financial
assistance from the state; (b) the difficulty of generating a significant
pipeline of bankable SME subprojects, taking into account the small size of
Togo's industrial SME sector and the reluctance of the banking system to
engage in SME term financing; and (c) the uncertainties of private sector
response to Government's privatization efforts. The risk related to the
sustainability of the private sector support system is being mitigated by
putting the main responsibility for administering and managing the new
institutional support structure in the hands of private sector entities and
by including safeguards to ensure that this structure will operate on a
businesslike basis. For the risk relative to the adequate number of
bankable SME projects, it is hoped that the direct involvement of the
banking system in the operation of the new investment support structure
would bring about the necessary integration of the financing function and
the technical assistance function, generating more investment projects
acceptable to the banks, thereby helping, together with the establishment
of mutual guarantee associations, to overcome the banks' usual reluctance
to finance SMEs. Finally, technical assistance for the parastatal
privatization program, by strengthening government capacity for its
implementation, is expected to concretely result in the satisfactory
privatization of a number of industrial state enterprises over the next two
years or so. A positive response from the private sector is expected to
the proposed introduction of the mutual investment fund.
IV. AGREEMENTS-REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      Durinx nerotiations, the following assurances and agreements were
reached with the Government on:
(a) the content of the Statement of Private Enterprise Development
Policy (para. 3.02);
(b) prior to March 31, 1988 (i) the streamlining of the procedure for
enterprise establishment through the elimination of the need for
its periodic renewal, and (ii) the abolition of the export
licensing requirement for industrial products (para. 3.02);
(c) a schedule for the establishment of the Mutual Investment Fund,
with the establishment of the Fund to occur prior to
November 1988 (para. 3.15);
(d) the principle of an action program for the implementation of the
microenterprise scheme, satisfactory to IDA, to be prepared by
MISE prior to December 31, 1987 (para. 3.16);
(e) the enactment by the Government, prior to December 31, 1988, of a
revised Investment Code incorporating modifications satisfactory
to IDA (para. 2.10);



- 29 -
(f) the onlending arrangements (para. 3.17), and terms and conditions
(para. 3.22);
(g) the eligibility criteria for beneficiary enterprises (para.
3.18);
(h) the subloan processing and administration procedures
(para. 3.20);
(i) the arrangements for training of banklng staff in economic
analysis of subprojects (para. 3.21);
(j) a schedule for the establishment of two pilot mutual guarantee
associations, with the establishment of the first association to
occur prior to April 1988 (para. 3.24);
(k) the arrangements for project reporting and monitoring
(para. 3.28); and
(1) Special Accounts (para. 3.31).
4.02      Conditions of Credit effectiveness will bet
(a) the opening of CTI for business (para. 3.07);
(b) the establishment and initial funding of the Studies Fund
(para. 3.09);
gc) signature of the agreement between the Government and the Chamber
of Commerce on DIVA (para. 3.10);
(d) recruitment of the resident adviser to MISE (paras. 3.13 and
3.14); and
(e) the signing of the protocol, satisfactory to IDA, between the
Government and BCEAO, specifying the arrangements for
administering the line of credit and issuance by the Central Bank
of a circular, satisfactory to IDA, outlining its onlending terms
and conditions (para. 3.17).
4.03      The signing of a subsidiary onlending agreement between the
Central Bank and each participating bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA will be a condition of disbursement of funds under the
line of credit (para. 3.17).



- so -
4.04      On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the Project
is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$11.5 million equivalent to the Republic
of Togo.



- 31 -
Annex 2-
TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAJOR INDICATORS OF TOGOLESE ECONOMY
1981       1982        1983        1984       1985
GDP (% growth)             -3.3       '-3.6        -5.4         1.3        4.7
Volume growth of:
- exports (%)                          14.2       -16.8      -17.4         5.6
- imports (X)                          30.0       -24.0      -14.9        11.2
Terms of trade             98.4        99.9       100.0      104.8       104.4
(1983 - 100)-
Current account            -9.9        -9.2        -6.4       -3.6        -7.5
deficit
(% of GDP)
Fiscal                     -5.6        -6.9        -4.6       -2.1        -1.5
deficit
(% of GDP)
Debt service               24.4        43.3        27.8       30.7        42.4
(X of exports)
Debt burden                94.5        96.6       114.4      109.7        93.9
(X of GDP)
Inflation (2)               7.5         7.9         6.4        5.8         4.0
Investment                 30.2        26.3        22.5       22.1        26.2
(Z of GDP)
Source: INF SM/86/110



- 32 -
Annex 2-2 (a)
TOGO
PRIVATF ENTERPRISE-DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GDP BY SECTOR OF ORIGIN
1981-1985
(Billions of CFA francs)
1981       1982        1983       1984       1985
Prov.     Est.       Est.
Current prices
Primary sector                73.7        72.8       90.1       93.1       93.2
Secondary sector              58.8       63.1        62.6       64.2       73.7
Mining                      24.6       26.9        28.7       30.6       31.0
Phosphate                20.1        21.0        29.5       30.0      N.A.
Clinker                  N.A.         6.2         7.1        0.5      N.A.
Other                    N.A.         0.6         0.6        0.6        1.0
Manufacturing               19.0       20.6        20.1       19.9       21.9
Construction                11.1       10.3         8.1        8.2       13.8
Energy                       4.1        5.3         5.7        5.5        7.0
Tertiary sector              129.0      134.1       128.6      134.8      145.9
Commerce and tourism       66.0        66.5        61.9       66.4      71.8
Transportation and
communications           18.0        21.5        18.1       193       22.7
Public services             27.0       27.5        27.8       26.9       27.6
Other services              18.0       18.9        20.8       22.2       23.8
GDP at market prices         261.5      270.0       281.3      292.1      312.8
Annual percentage change    10.8           3.3        4.2        3.8        7.1
1978 prices
Primary sector                49.8       45.4        45.8       51.7      52.7
Secondary sector             4U 1        42.6        39.8       36.4      39.7
Mining                      14.4       15.8        15.4       15.2       14.4
Phosphate                N.A.        11.4        11.1       14.4      13.8
Clinker                  N.A.         3.9         3.9        0.4      V.A.
Other                    N.A,         0.5         0.4        0.4       0.6
Manufacturing               14.2       14.8        13.7       11.2       12.0
Construction                8.8         7.5         5.9        5.6       8.8
Energy                      4.0         4.5         4.8        4.4       4.5
Tertiary sector              104.2      100.4        92.6       92.4      96.6
Commerce and tourism       55.9        53.2        47.6       48.4      TOM
Transportation and
communications           12.9        14.1        11.3       11.7      13.1
Public services            22.1        20.5        20.7       20.0      20.3
Other services              13.3       12.6        13.0       12.3      12.9
GDP at market prices         195.4      188.4       178.2      180.5      189.0
Annual percentage change    -3.3         -3.6        -5.4        1.3        4.7
GDP deflator                 133.8      143.3       157.9      161.8     165.5
Annual percentage change    14.6           7.1       10.1        2.5        2.3
N.A. - Not Available
Source: Ministare du Plan et de l'Industrie, Direction de la Statistique;
BCEAO-Lomd; and staff estimates



- 33 -
Annex 2-2 (b)
TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GDP BY SECTOR OF ORIGIN
1981-1985
(Percent of GDP)
1981       1982        1983       1984      1985
Prov.     Est.       Est.
Current prices
Primary sector              28.18       26.96       32.03     31.87      29.80
Secondary sector            2t.ff       750§        22.25     YT7i9      23.56
Mining                     9.41        9.96       10.20     10.48       9.91
Phosphate                7.69        7.78       10.49     10.27       N.A.
Clinker                  N.A.        2.30       2.52       0.17       N.A.
Other                    N.A.        0.22       0.21       0.21       0.32
M-anufacturing             7.27        7.63        7.15      6.81       7.00
Construction               4.24        3.81        2.88      2.81       4.41
Energy                     1.57        1.96        2.03      1.88       2.24
Tertiary sector             49.33       49.67       45.72     46.15      46.64
ComGerce and tourism      25.24       24.63       22.00      22.73     22.95
Transportation and
communications           6.88        7.96       6.43       6.61       7.26
Public services           10.33       10.19        9.88      9.21       8.82
Other services             6.88        7.00        7.39      7.60       7.61
GDP at market prices       100.00      100.00      100.00    100.00    100.00
1978 prices
Primary sector              25.49       24.10       25.70     28.64      27.88
Secondary sector            21.19       22.-61      22.33     20.17      21.01
Mining                     7.37        8.          8.64     -§8[5      -7.62
Phosphate                N.A.        6.05       6.23       7.98       7.30
Clinker                  N.A.        2.07       2.19       0.22       N.A.
Other                    N.A.        0.27       0.22       0.22       0.32
Manufacturing              7.27        7.86        7.69      6.20       6.35
Construction               4.50        3.98       3.31       3.10       4.66
Energy                     2.05        2.39       2.69       2.44       2.38
Tertiary sector             53.33       53.29      51.96      51.19      51.11
Commerce and tourism      28.61       28.24      26.71      26.81      26.61
Transportation and
communications           6.60        7.48       6.34       6.48      6.93
Public services           11.31       10.88      11.62      11.08      10.74
Other services             6.81        6.69       7.30       6.81       6.83
GDP at 1978 prices         100.00      100.00     100.00    100.00    100.00
N.A. - Not Available
Source: Ministare du Plan et de l'Industrie, Direction de la Statistique;
BCEAO-Lom6; and staff estimates



TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF ENTERPRISES BY SECTOR
1982-1984
Number of enterprises                                 Rate of growth
Percent share          1982-1984
Sector                      1982          1983         1984            1984               (percent)
Agriculture                                44           43            44              1.8                   0.0
Mining                                      5            3             3              0.1                 -40.0
Manufacturitg                              88           97           100              4.0                  13.6
Construction                              122          113           125              5.0                   2.5
Utilities                                  13           16            18              0.7                  38.5
Commerce and related services             401          567           582             23.4                  45.1
Transport and comwanications               50           61            62              2.5                  24.0
Services                                1,491        1,497         1,554             62.5                   4.2
TOTAL                                2,214         2,397         2,488            100.0                  12.4
Source: Caisse Nationale de Securit6 Sociale



TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GDP BY MANUFACTURING SUBSECTOR
1980-1985
(Billions of CFA francs)
Average
1980        1981        1982       1983        1984       1985       growth (S)
1980-1985
Manufacturing industries       17.00       19.00       20.60       20.10      19.90      21.90
Food, beverages, and  -
tobacco                      7.50         9.60       10.90      10.90       10.50      11.40          10.40
Textiles and garments           3.70        4.30        3.80        3.70       3.40       3.50          -0.01
Wood products and
woodworking                   1.30        1.40        1.20        1.50       1.50       1.70           6.10
Paper products and
printing                     0.30         0.40        0.50       0.30        0.30       0.50          13.30
Chemicals                       1.70        1.30        1.60        1.60       1.gV       0.90          -9.40
Mineral products                1.60        1.30        1.50        1.70       1.90       2.60           12.50
Metal products                  0.80        0.60        1.00        0.30       0.70       0.50          -7.50
Metalworking                                                                   0.50       0.70
Other manufacturing             0.10        0.10        0.10       0.10        0.10       0.10
Source: Direction de la Statistique (MPI), GDP Committee, Government of Togo



- 36 -
Annex 2-5
Page 1 of 4
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR IN TOGO
1.        The manufacturing sector in Togo plays a modest role in overall
economic activity, accounting for 7 percent of GDP in 1985 divided more or
less equally between formal and informal sectors. The formal manufacturing
sector is estimated to consist of slightly over 100 enterprises and to
employ between 4,000 and 6,500 people, accounting for less than 1 percent
of total active population. the bulk of this is in large enterprises; in
1982 the 41 companies with more than 20 employees accounted for more than
90 percent of registered employment in the sector. The informal sector can
be estimated to employ at least three times as many, its share of the
sector's wage bill being estimated to account for two-thirds of total and
wages likely to be lower than in the formal sector.
2.        The major characteristics of the sector are: (i) heavy
concentration on import substitution. Exports, often sold at marginal
costs, have consisted mainly of cement (until 1985), vegetable oils and
oilcake, steel rods (from 1986) and paint; (ii) low level of integration.
Most branches import all their inputs. Local production of inputs and
intermediates has consisted only of a few items like industrial gases,
containers, some packing materials and oil for soap industries; (iii) low
level of value-added; and (iv) high concentration around Lome. Table 1
presents selected indicators for the various subsectors.
Food and Beverages
3.        This is the most important subsector in terms of employment and
value-added (52 percent of the sector GDP). The formal sector in 1982
employed 2,150 people in 29 enterprises.
4.        The beverages subsector is dominated by a few large companies,
each controlling a specific market segment: beer, soft drinks, milk
products, alcohol. The absence of smaller enterprises is being attributed
to the difficulty of entering a market of established trademarks. The
existing companies have also enjoyed various fiscal or market privileges
rendering access more difficult to newcomers. Potential for further growth
can be found either in new types of products or in areas outside Lom6 which
are currently inadequately supplied. Increased farm incomes could
contribute to the opening of new markets for the sector's products.
5.        Other important activities are flour milling, pasta
manufacturing, bakeries, vegetable oils, fish processing, sugar and other
processing and packaging activities. Most of these subsectors tend to have
a few companies in the formal sector supplemented by a very active informal
sector. In bakeries, for example, about 80 percent of output is estimated
to originate from the informal sector. Bakeries are the only food
subsector which can currently be estimated as saturated. Its good past



- 37 -
Annex 2-5
Page 2 of 4
performance has attracted numerous entrepreneurs; during the past year, for
example, four extensions or new projects have applied to the Investment
Commission. For the remainder of the sector recent studies have identified
various sources of potential growth and business opportunities. The
internal market is undersupplied in most food items and this potential is
likely to be enhanced by the growth of rural incomes. For example,
processing either local or imported fresh fish or manufacturing new
products based on local sorghum and maize for domestic consumption or
animal feed in small-scale units offer interesting opportunities. The
small size of the domestic market and competition from neighboring
countries in similar goods coupled with smuggling often make larger-scale
food processing uncompetitive. Export potential would exist for fruits and
counterseason vegetables. Furthermore, the reduction in the protection
level in neighboring densely-populated Nigeria and Ghana can offer new
market opportunities for various food items from Togo.
Textiles and Shoes
6.        This sector is second in importance in terms of value-added
(16 percent of the manufacturing GDP in 1985) and employment. The formal
subsector consists of six companies employing 1,360 people, and includes in
particular the facilities of ITT and TOGOTEX, which have been largely
underutilized and are currently in the process of being privatized. The
Importance and dynamism of the sector is likely to be revigorated soon as
these two units are being taken over by new shareholders. Plans are to
export production to the United Stated and the European Communities relying
on the open access of Togolese textiles to these markets whereas quotas
prevail for most exporting countries. Employment is projected to increase
to 5,000.
7.        In the clothing subsectoT most domestic production is achieved by
small tailor shops in the informal sector. Growth potential for industrial
manufacturing is limited by massive imports of used clothing, which
responds to the demand of poorer income groups.
8.        In the shoes subsector there are three manufacturers in the
formal sector, which produces mainly plastic shoes. Each company is
specialized in a different income segment of demand. Sales in the domestic
market are hampered by smuggling and export development in the region is
constrained by high tariffs as Togo is not a member of the West African
Customs Union.
Mineral Products (including construction materials)
9.        The sector is dominated by a clinker-grinding plant, which is the
second largest enterprise in the manufacturing sector, with the sector
consisting of five formal enterprises (1982). Its value-added in 1985 was
estimated at 12 percent of the manufacturing sector GDP. It is one of the
few manufacturing companies that has exported a substantial amount of its
production. The remainder of the sector consists of a marble quarry and
some small construction material enterprises. The recession in recent



-38-
Annex 2-5
Page 3 of 4
years has made market prospects grim as construction has been hit hard by
reduced Government investment and spending. However, various studies have
indicated further potential to exist In the sector for smaller-scale
industries like various products of cement, limestone, gravel and lime.
Export potential may exist for some clay-based products.
Wood and Paer Industry.
10.       The wood and paper subsector accounted for about 10 percent of
the manufacturing GDP in 198,, and consisted of about 30 companies. The
wood subsector consists of a few sawmills and two small units making
furniture in the formal sector, complemented by numerous entities in the
informal sector. The country does not have vast forest resources but has
ample skills in woodworking activities. Studies have shown that if higher
quality standards could be met there might be some potential to develop
exports to Europe in simple furniture and wood paneling or cabinetry. The
domestic and regional markets could also offer further potential for
wood-based construction materials.
11.       The paper and printing subsector is dominated by a public
enterprise which prints the local papers and all official documents. Its
activities are complemented by those of a number of small enterprises in
the informal sector. Their relatively good profitability has induced four
of them to enlarge capacity recently and enter into the formal sector.
Products vary from packing material and toilet paper to various printing
jobs. Currently, however, there seems to be overcapacity in the sector.
Chemicals
12.       The decline in the sector's GDP share since 1983 is largely due
to the closing of the refinery. Currently the sector consists of various
small firms engaged in plastic products, soaps, toiletries, manufacturing
and paint. Local plastic products include PVC pipes and fittings, pails,
containers, bottle cases, foam mattresses.
13.       The two soap companies have recently enlarged production and use
local oils as raw materials. They already export small amounts to Europe
and the region and are planning to enlarge exports. As for detergents, the
local production facility was closed down due to competition from
neighboring countries.
14.       In paints, of the two units in existence only one is operational
producing for the local market, and has made initial efforts to export.
Market growth is Impeded by high tariffs in the region for Togolese versus
Ivorian competitors, since Togo is not a member of the Western African
Customs Union.
Metal-working
15.       The sector consists of about 20 small companies accounting for
about 5 percent of the manufacturing GDP. Goods produced comprise steel



- 39 -
Annex 2-5
Page 4 of 4
rods, galvanized containers, doors and windows from aluminum, sheets,
nails, pins, metal furniture, bike assembly and agricultural equipment.
Besides numerous garages, few shops exist for reconditioning and repair.
Further potential has been estimated to lie in development of agricultural
implements like wheelbarrows, kitchen utensils, construction tools and in
various maintenance services.
Am=  2-5, Table 1: SInrMAL INDICAIIS OF 7HE MUFMU1l1D  SBCWM IN IXD
Value-sided   EqkmnD       No. of     Value-   Was    Surpls
2 of sector   (hxans)  sterprise   added         1983     1983
(1985)       (1982)      (1982)      (O    (blms  (billns
(1983)    CFAF)    CFAF)
Fiod andbmvrages     53          2151         36         30       4.4       3.3
TetiIes and ioes      16         L366          6         22       2.5       0.8
wod and par           10)                     32         30        1.5     -0.1
1midcals              4)                      19         33       0.7      -0.5
MIfnelprodtcts        12)        3027          5         18       0.7       0.6
Netds andpMoUs        5)                      14         14       0.4      -0.4
O*hr                  0)                       9         33       0.1      n.a.
TMUL               100         6544         121        27       10.3      3.7
Source: Ministry of Plamdng and Industry (Diretioan de la Statlstique)
Fbgwy 1987



TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
POLICY FRAMEWORK
CURRENT STATUS AND REFORMS TO BE UNDERTAKEN
Policy element                     Actions already taken by Government          Issue                           Remarks /1
I. Import protection
a. Quantitative                Preliminary review in investment            Q.R. on a list of products
restrictions/               promotion study and ERP study.               (currently cement, chicken,
monopolies.                                                             iron rods, certain plastics,
flat steel products, shoes,
eggs, pasta).
Public impOrt                               Monopoly still in place for
monopoly of SONACOM                         alcohol, tobacco, rice,
liberalized in April 1986                   sugar, powdered milk,
for salt, soap and flour.                   pharmaceuticals.
Reference prices on a list
of products.
Licensing required on all
imports.
/I Further reforms, except otherwise specified, are expected to be discussed in the frame of the preparation
of the next structural adjustment program.
I:0
m c0'



TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
POLICY FRAMEWORK
CURRENT STATUS AND R E RMS TO BE UNDERTAKEN (continued)
Policy element                     Actions already taken by Government         Issue                            Remarks /1
I. Import protection (continued)
b. Border duties.              Limited simplification of tariff            High dispersion of tariff
system in 1985.  Reduction of import        still prevailing (range
duties on primary/intermediste              2-112%).
goods (April 1986) for certain goods.
Various case by case special Issue reviewed >
arrangements for specific       in investment
firms.                          promotion/ERP
studies.
Computerization of customs                  Complex regime of taxation
administration (Sydonia project)            (about 10 various taxes).
and adoption of the ECOWAS system
of classification.
TGA at lower rate (2%) for
Imports than for domestic
producers (10).
/1 Further reforms, except otherwise specified, are expected to be discussed in the frame of the preparation
of the next structural adjustment program.                                                                              f 0
0S



TODD'
PRIVAT ENTEsRPIse DzVELOPMENT FROJET
POLICY FRAHNEORK
CURRENT STATUS AND REFORMS TO BE UNDERTAREN (continued)
Policy element                     Actions already taken by Goveroment          Issue                           Remarks (1
II. Export promotion
a) Duty drawback.                                                          Non-operative.                  Exporters resort
rather to
temporary
admission
procedure. 8
b) Export taxes.               Abolished in April 86.
c) Export licensing.                                                       Administrative burden           To be abolished
for exporters.                  under the project
for locally
manufactured
exports.
d) Promotion measures.         Export processing zone since 1968.          Additional support
ITC study in 1978 on establishing           measures needed.
an export promotion institution.
III. Investment code               New Code in 1985.                           Sigh access levels, generally A complete  
favoring large capital-         review to be J x
intensive investments,          undertaken  to 
before        " >
December 1988L*
Special privlleges for
enterprises of regime B.
71  Further reforms, except otherwise specified, are expected to be discussed in the frame of the preparation
of the next structural adjustment program.



TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-
POLICY FRAMEWORK
CURRENT STATUS AND REFORMS TO WE UNDERTAKEN (continued)
Policy element                     Actions already taken by Government          lssue                           Remarks A1
III. Investment code (continued)                                               Value-added computation
based on market prices
instead of factor costs.
Duty exe ption on luports of
equipment and intertediary
goods.
No a posteriori control on
projects eligible for
prlv-ileges.
n. Price controls                                                              Fixed masrgis, complex           Initial review
calculations, high              in investment
administration cost, lower      promotion
margins for local goods,        study.
unclear guidelines.
V. Exit and entry                                                               Renewal of entry                Decree
of enterprises                                                             license every                   abolishing
2-5 years creates               renewal to be
uncertainty for                 issued under the
investors.                      project.
/I Further reforms, except otherwise specified, are expected to be discussed in the frame of the preparation
of the next structural adjustment program.
Source: WAPID, March 1987                                                                                                   *x
o 8
L



- 44
Annex 2-7
Page 1 of 6
TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE INCENTIVES SYSTEM IN TOGO
(Selected Aspects)
Tariff Protection
1.        Taxation of imports in Togo is governed by five basic taxes and
some specific duties of minor importance on certain goods. Tte two most
important taxes are "droit fiscal" (DF), 35 percent of revenues, and "taxe
sur les transactions" (T), 50 percent of total revenues in 1986. Taxe
statistique of 2 percent and timbre douanier of 4 percent accounted for
7 percent and 3.5 percent of revenues respectively. The large number of
various taxes makes the system unnecessarily complex. The Government
Justifies it on the grounds that, as the droit fiscal is generally
considered the negotiable tariff, the current system gives Togo more
flexibility in regional tariff negotiations. A first improvement towards
simplification was achieved in 1984 when two previous taxes were combined
to form the current TT.
2.        The majority of duties are levied on an ad valorem basis and are
cascaded upon each other. Specific duties exist for alcohol, tobacco,
petroleum and some food products. The Customs also uses reference prices
on certain goods, which either raise or lower the dutiable base. Lower
than world prices are used for certain basic foodstuffs. Their use is
related to the Government's pricing policies on agricultural crops or
desire to guarantee lower prices on basic foodstuffs. But as tariffs on
these tend to be low anyway, their impact is minimized. Higher than world
prices are on meat, poultry, beer, used clothes and some packaging
material. These are justifi4d by the Government on the grounds of giving
protection to local producers and preventing dumping or under-invoicing.
Altogether, the overall impact of the reference price system is limited.
3.        The system of classification used to be somewhat confusing and
left room for interpretation as to which categories certain goods belonged.
The ECOWAS system of customs classification, however, recently adopted by
the Government, provides a six-digit CCCN-classification of goods and is
expected to alleviate the problems encountered with the old system.
4.        The table on page 6 gives an overview of the current structure of
the Togolese tariff. The range is from 5.1 percent to 120.5 percent. The
import weighted average is 35 percent, without taking into account the
cascading effect. The highest rates are on matches and some vegetable



- 45 -
Annex 2-7
Page 2 of 6
oils. The overall variance is 123, which suggests that the majority of
rates are in the 24-46 percent range. As shown in the table on page 6 of
this annex, the highest variance is in the agro-industries, paper and
printing and chemicals. In the classification by end-use capital and
intermediate goods are relatively uniform but the consumer goods category
display relatively high variance in rates.
5.        The highest variations are in the two major taxes.  The "droit
fiscal" (DF) varies from 0 to 65 percent with most rates in the range of
10 to 30 percent. The "taxe sur les transactions" (TT) has four rates, 3,
6, 22 and 26 percent. The distribution of different goods to the various
rate categories does not follow a very logical pattern. For example, a
good exempt from the DF may bear the highest TT rate and vice versa. But a
general trend would suggest lower rates on food and intermediate goods and
higher on final goods. The requirements of the transit trade are reflected
on relatively low rates on certain consumer goods like electronics, alcohol
and cigarettes.
6.        Analysis of protection in Togo has also to take into account the
impact of the "taxe g6n6rale sur les affaires" (TGA) as it has a lower rate
on imports (2 percent) than on domestic production (10 percent for most
goods; agricultural goods are exempt). Thus for most industrial goods the
actual protection received is lessened by this tax differential.
Exemptions
7.        The low overall duty collection rate of 13 percent in the table,
page 6 of this annex, would indicate the existence of a large number of
exemptions from the statutory rates. It is lowest for machinery,
11 percent, which accounts for about one third of total imports. Higher
collection is connected with various consumer goods.
8.        The exonerations originate mainly in state imports and the
Investment Codes. The Investment Code (1985) grants exonerations on
capital equipment for accredited companies. Some of these date back to the
old Code (ended in 1982), which also granted special conventions to certain
firms. In the interim period between the two Codes some firms reached
special agreements with the Government on duty exemptions. Some of these
have now been incorporated into the new Code. On intermediate inputs the
new Code is more stringent. Exonerations are only granted if the inputs in
question cannot be found in Togo. Thus, for example, the majority of
approvals to the Charter have only granted duty exemptions for capital
equipment. The exemptions concern the DF and TT.
9.        A further way to get duty exemptions is the decree of April 1986.
Thereby firms that are judged to generate 40 percent of local value-added
at market prices and pay 60 percent of salaries to Togolese nationals, or
which enjoy the benefits of Investment Codes can apply for 50 or 75 percent
reductions in duties on inputs which cannot be purchased locally. This
applies only to the DF and not the TT. The Customs interprets the decree
in a very restrictive manner and so far six firms have benefited from it.
For example, a company which has been granted Investment Code benefits
which requires the same 40 percent value-added requirement is not
automatically accepted by the customs, who conduct their own investigation.



- 46
Annex 2-7
Page 3 of 6
Non-Tariff Barriers
10.       The Togolese protection system is beset by a number of
quantitative restrictions (QRs). All imports are subject to licensing, the
granting of which can be used to restrict imports of undesired goods.
Currently there are two different types of QRs. Firstly, there are
permanent QRs whereby any imports of goods produced by certain Togolese
companies are subject to their approval. Currently this privilege exists
for four companies: SOTOCIM (cement), SOTOTOLES (steel sheets), STS (iron
rods) and ITP (PVC pipes). Secondly, there are temporary quotas which
require the importer before obtaining his licence to purchase one third of
the total required amount from a local producer.  In general, these quotas
have been granted for three months at a time but the products involved tend
to have been the same over the years.  Currently the quota is effective on
shoes, chicken, eggs and pasta.
11.       A closer look at the statutory tariffs and the TGA reveals that
without the effect of the QRs, actual protection received in many cases
would be non-existent.  For example, in the case of cement and steel rods
inputs and outputs have relatively similar tariff rates suggesting a rate
of effective protection of about 40 percent. However, this is largely
eliminated by the existence of the TGA at a higher rate for imports than
for domestic goods. In practice, nevertheless, the companies concerned
have negotiated arrangements with the Government either for exemptions from
duties on inputs or exclusivity of the domestic market. As a result
protection is increased considerably, international price comparisons for
both goods would suggest the local price being about double the world
price. A more efficient way would be to base protection of local industry
on reasonable and uniform tariff rates.
12.       An example of the temporary quotas is pasta.  There are two
producers of the good and only LUDO has managed to get the above-mentioned
reduction in input duties for all but packaging material. The reason for
the latter was that the Customs judged that local production would be
available. The resulting tariff rates would give effective protection of
about 43 percent for LUDO and 25 percent for other producers who failed to
get the reduction on inputs. The existence of the domestic purchase
requirement is likely to give some additional protection. Here as in many
other cases of consumer goods, smuggling is likely to reduce the protection
received.
13.       However, the overall impact of the QRs is relatively small from a
global point of view. The companies covered by the QRs are estimated to
cover about 10 percent of industrial turrover. It is alarming though that
some of these restrictions have been connected to recent privatization
deals and their overall use seems to be increasing. Also, discussions with
Government officials reveal constant pressurs from local industries to
increase the use of protective measures.
14.       A recent study estimated the effective rates of protection to
vary between -21 and 250 percent. This would suggest a need for



- 47 -
Annex 2-7
Page 4 of 6
considerable rationalization in the tariff structure towards more uniform
rates.
Investment Code and the Charter of Togolese Enterprises
15.       In Togo investmenit incentives are governed first by the
Investment Code for amounts exceeding CFAF 300 million and secondly by the
Charter of Togolese enterprises for Togolese investors for investments
below CFAF 300 million, Major conditions for admission are 40 percent
value-added at market prices, payment of 60 percent of salaries to Togolese
nationals, 25 percent financing from own resources and fulfillment of the
country's development objectives. Special conventions may be negotiated
for investments beyond CFAF 3 billion.
16.       The advantages are degressive and limited over time and consist
of various exemptions from import duties on equipment and on inputs if they
are not locally available and on certain taxes on wages and income.
17.       During the prolonged recession in the beginning of the decade,
investment activity was very slack in the country. The past two years have
experienced a considerable upturn, especially in smaller-scale investments.
This has been reflected in tpe relatively large number of applications to
the Charter. A large number of the projects submitted to the Code have
been a posteriori granting of benefits for investment undertaken after the
expiration of the old Code in 1982.
NEW INVESTMENT APPLICATIONS UNDER THE CHARTER BY SECTOR (1985-1986)
Sector                   Amount*             Number of            z
(CFAF million)           projects       of value
Food                      542                     7              25
Wood                       30                     1               1
Paper                     779                     6              35
Chemicals                 314                     2              14
Metal                      16                     1               1
Machinery                 113                     2               5
Other manufactured
goods                   161                     2               7
Services                  272                     2              12
TOTAL                 2,227                    23             100
* Does not include working capital
Source: Ministry of Plan



- 48 -
AAnex 2-7
Page 5 of 6
18.       The investment commission has applied the various provisions of
the Code in a flexible manner. For example, the 40 percent value-added
criteria is not stringently required if the company is considered to
fulfill other conditions. In its examination of the projects, three have
been rejected, on the grounds of non-viability of projects, existence of
similar production in Togo already, etc,. The handling of some applications
has taken considerable time due to the relatively large amount of
information required in the applications and inexperience of the investors
in preparing this kind of document. The follow-up of the projects needs
strengthening. Currently, there is no monitoring or follow-up system to
determine whether or not companies keep fulfilling the conditions for their
admission to the benefits of the Code.
WAPID
March 1987



TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF TARITFFS IN TOGO
Sector                     Number of      Range of      UnVeighted          Weighted           Variance            Out Lest              Share
tariff       tariff         average           average                               value of                (Z)
positions                                                                               imports
Agriculture                   122           5-58           33.2               11.3               189                 4.5                  2
Mining                          77           5-48           35.4               47.8               124                 0.2                 13
Manlf actur1tig              3,3211          5-93           40.5               33.8               118                14.7                 85
Consumer gOOds               1.112           5-88           40.4               33.4               179                19.5                 28
lIUtermediate goods         1.440           5-93           42.8               31.4                88                 15.8                 44
(:apIta.1 goods                747           7-53           36.1               36.7                60                 8.9                 28
Food, beverages,
tObacco                     465           5-68           36.2               31.3               227                15.2                  13
Textiles                       647           13-58         44.5                26.4                60                19.3                 20  ..
Wood and products               82          8-53           42.4                45.6                98                27.2                0.4  D
Paper and printing             106          8-48           39.7               40.4                160                27.0                  1 1
Chemicals                     491           5-93           43.1                32.7               165                16.2                 11
Non-metallic minerals          190          28-58          47.6               49.9                 62                11.9                  5
Basic metals                   158          18-48          37.7               37.5                to                  8.3                  2
KMaeInery                   1.114           7-58           37.7               37.0                 66                11.0                 33
Other manufactured goods       lOt           13-88         47.4               43.4                103                34.8                  1
TOTAL                     3,526           5-93           40.1               35.2               123                 13.0
SoUrce: Sydonia project.
Note:   The data are unofficial preliminary estimates covering the first four months of 1986.  The calculations are based on
arithmetic adding and thtus do not reflect the Impact of cascading.  (Thus. for example, the maxi_m If 932
would become 120Z).
>; :
ON:



PLO=C SW= Bi m 1: 3W  LOei                          AID S38   (1 a LC 3E1
No  of entuprse            q       l=-'   _MrUP            .M.3l          Ptntm           Ib_t                         pnflt          W Of    T.. of
by  etor                  steac  Ia          ()            ()        d    hr         " ma t7           Wm  ijYt   (loss) j _ 
011T*  Onl hny (o)                       no.             100             0      tam  /c          S.b1             20,781 I    (2,8            .e       i
Tlbp Sslt 2ning Co. (S    )                o.             66            34       kta              amec                10  e      a3m)          81      19MD 1
Hmql )h*daU Id (0?) ap                                   10             0      n.e                               28,895                    3,00D   1   9 o
Tap lbzWelinin  Co. (WOW                 U.o.             67            33       ADn Mr(Italy)     _ t               194                      177      1983
Ibtiml fSteel OD. (                       Op             10D             0      1m               gm                  944A      10            a       - 1980 1
T; Tttie Co~.                             o cp            25            75       Sc. imwd        SM. uaAd
MM=)
0 ty)                                    op              25            75
m  a(hlAed Steel Co. (907U1E)             Gp              50            59       s rntmy                           1,740          40           47      191l
Tqp Pine  fItry (ri)                      GP              25            75       3312            T.?.                900        (196)          75      1902
TpDtaggto. C       1D)                   0.0.             97             3      ft-_to                               74i          34           93      1983
kp Claddo  co. (9QI                      0.0.
1* COemt o,. (CDI=)                       Gp              so            50      5     0 l lC                       5,617         264          188      1981
Data        .OD )                         op      *       25            75      am 1a.
1+ U&O1  cm.                              op              26            74       r1p             ft1A                                          31      1979
VW BNlsg C. (13)                          oP              25            75      IA1LKR           ft                1,257          47          135      191 3
lTp  llad Qqiy  (01                       .o.            100             0      n.S.               _ t                                                                S
V     it AMrlm  CU    C. (COMM           n.o.             92             8      Dtn                1" l7,0O0                                  733      191
s    i ralm Gas Co. (ICMS)                op              40            60      MrVWAi rU 'Sd                        15De                      19      1976
h A Hill.awop - fms<                 up -P             o. -                T.P. - T P  0
IS  t md1  op FA   lfm
/f 4iq iula a soop udt. Rbfsy closd
a,         (tow
Ii l_t avt   yer beWo  clae or 2a.
Ile e lt ady to Ne] do 2 fawne



HUIC   -       : ~aTEUE. Snv 13,      a   AD  um         (a D1V-=- (Cat1mzoa
-  ~      m           it 
NM o aft mptlm             Of I etiom1    amz   opmsdp               ftgS                                      pvfk      1Iomr of   TOW of
by 'Pe mr               status 4a()                   (3)       d.umb          mpmmMU          Sol  1_k   (') &    ev1om         waa
Tw 131kg 0. (am!                       GP           .45            55       hmn           Pt1             31.87 1       ..92                 ism
krdn  WIANl  (m)                    GP             40            so     Gii. NM?.r
Edibl On Phmemkg (I)                  MOe.           1i0            0      n.e.           GWUt               742       (211)        121      low             V
TAP 'au au k_. OmU. -
Na2Smm1 PAU O  Oa i. (Sam")            GP            300            0      n.e.                              217        (75)        921     192
hlgy IPx ot   Gi). (8MAMAV            n.o.            76           24      Iw/DE)4                           174       (5)44                 Ism
am= hwlWt Cb. (MM  )                   op            IGO            0  _ .                ibwL.I          3.  /.                             im
240t (Aop 3N a I I   rE0 (CM*1         4p            100            0      n4. e.TRi
agoia        flut e   ('WtHAUO         GP            10             0  k                  Grm
Ap*1uu1 f       *. ,UE                2.6.           100            0      1m.                . Pw.                    (1)         n.A.      nois
Nummti o t a       wnao  00 (Om)       GP            XID            0      am.e.
71US1 cow  8=   (M)                    op            1 00           0   31.                                                          so      1976
L*pse TW  1Aa1 (o. (am                 oP            s0             0      50 GA. Idbp                                 (1)          401      15
slab CO. tw CX     (Co                     51            49 Qin.                A.e.               400       -.e          £4
(sm     )                 os             I             12      p                                ne n_                  n.9Q
hgnt ?aftUkm 0.          l     24        d           100            0      n.e.                             ne na. t
At WMd        op -    s1oIOD a.0.- O pmwd&WA  P.O. -   _ t. -; c
iN uiau o CLfn~
rg %W~tt M ak oSb= Wdt. hAfhrny dosed
a1 pm&cdm (tmD)
o tat qmtk       w bfom clJrm or lam.
f Fteai olat. may to Ihiel   2 2 fe-lw



PM=C S R              41310 t EW. G             AN) Sma    O aWE MM     (,, __lxm
Ortwm          Privat                                                Pe-te
?se of a*rpla              Operatiou1     certdp        ar*dp        Pr.e                                      pfit    RMeof   Tow of
by stor                 statu /a          (             )       iir*Al&r   _ p2MIU7    San lb   (3m) hb   a3oym                  uumlz
ciierce and trasrt
Nbtimalm1a Thkg O. CMapI)                             60           40      Re=t           ca_v  it          495         (19)                19t
htim1 SdiWLe CIO. (UU                  Gp            100            0      ua.                _ tI
(Sum             Closed
(La Ibtai)       closed
ktlmal Ommarcld C*. (UMR                                                   G     _n
~mska1CD. CILUIAB
FIAdal 3mtitetS4w
Tlp am* for  Ce at lA intrfy (M) ap                   65           35      Pr
Ited  Dk of Tabp MM)                   ap65                        35      Priva
atlaAdl n,st Co. (SPi)                 ap            100            0      Q     _m.at
(VA)                                                  oevn
Thp DmlcPmt so* (MID)                 lop                                       mt
(CA)                cp            50            50       n _
LUb T - 3-ar                                                                 e
lttwy On                                                           a
4easlftml Cimdt      (Ga)                            10G            0   0   o, n
Ia   id1985: op - aperat1m1  .o. -    qieratMl  p.o. - p*,*watIm; T.P. - Psr ---    - -m-
,irMmm  Of CWA frams
h   peratc  as a stg  wdt.  afinery dod
rd Pft&mbtio (tow)
r Lit qperat1z yaw befoz clam    or .ew.
/ Flmes relate only to l&cel & 2 fewero



PLU         B?DW :s GUA1TGIL SDM                  AD AiUi SUfw   F    as m    (authmd
Bhin of mt.rprla           (4sIut1sA1       ausrddp      mmler,&        PrivateAffx                                psefkt     Ddwr of    leos Of
bry  tor                  stas /a          (I             )       dwdmIxlr        respommalty    Salesk        (low)       agoyme    rmzls
Nast l Now CO. (ElE)                     Op            100             0         nUs.   1 1 tel /f               657 /f    (3.0%) Lf    U.S.       low
4ps Arotisml              (CA"           Op            100             0         n.e.
Thp  Develoat Co. (WM)                   Op            10              0         na..
AtI4In Dte P        _eceg   r  ((BElW)   Op            1oD             0         n.a.         _Muu-
o  asn Coffee (Ihwbt OD. (e)                                                                  GQAws*t
C1ttle Reseac Z        AGr (en t
C40trel Sto    (AI )
EA * Fat;t Pnt1m  oD. (C3 o           Ccled ose
I!atlxuI Professioai l    (Qt         Cl               100             0         n.a.     _       bt
Nltl      tr Awmity MM                   op            100             0         n.a.     a    OVSrint         1,438        n.e.          448      1963
Top EMctricty CO. (C')                   op            1OD             0         n.e.         Covw.t
LIm Part h&zdlty (PAL)                   op            100             0         na.            _ t
(ORM                                                                        coavenin
t1tam1 Pdnrtg Co. (fl)                   op            100             0         n.a.           _ t              657        n.a.         n..       1962
naming Camtrcum Co. ((1)                                                                      c<venmt
/a At eds1985: op - operatiaul; n.o. - wn Openltkma; p.o. - pr;-opeudonai; T.P. - hdwfrel Parue
Ai lli    of CFA fms 
O(peratg as a stos umit. Refiaury cloed                                                                                                                         a T
d Pnxbctios (tms)
fi Loes  relateo yasw befor losure 2 eIe
CfP&x    elemy oBodd  ~2 fe



- aite lR            SE -'u
_m af umteprism        (t So=    _         m  p    mzIdp   _Iuit lt                                         aflt    flr  of          of
by    r                  tabLa           m )           )                  a                   u     
¶l  asXmtmd   c. (SXW_
T_a>. (Su
V   _I CAtCtMC. (NE              Close           IOm 
/a At  9-I1sa tp - ;pgmu  n.;. -   ouptm1; Poo. - ,u..uP.o.     - . - .4       1 P-
iIaUI       of CFA ftaP.
O/ 4efK sI a - 1,  lt. biliuzy cloud
)(tom)
Ie  Mlats uly to Btal di 2 forIew
bswx=  Ic a I    IN8s



- 55 -
Annex 2-9
Page 1 of 7
TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATUS OF THE PARASTATALS PRIVATIZATION/RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
In addition to SOTEMOA, SNS and STH, whose privatization (lease
of assets) was initiated under SAL I, nine enterprises were Initially
identified for potential privatization/restructuring, namely ITT, TOGOTEX,
SOTONA, TOGOROUTE, SODETO, ITP, IOTO, SOPROLAIT and OPAT.  For all of
these, except OPAT, which is being restructured but will remain under
public control, privatization was undertaken as a condition of the first
tranche release of SAL II. For the release of the second tranche of
SAL 1, twelve additional enterprises were identified for
restructuring/privatization, namely OTODI, SOTOTOLES, SOTCON, SALINTO,
HUILERIES TOGOLAISES, FAB, CAAN, SITO, SOTONAM, CENETI, SOTED, SATELIT, and
in addition a classification of the whole portfolio was prepared by the
Government, distributing public enterprises in four categories as follows:
enterprises to be retained in the public sector, enterprises to be
liquidated, enterprises to be privatized and enterprises to be restructured
prior to privatization (Table A). The status of the privatization program
is described in Table B.
WAPID
March 1987



- 56 -
Annex 2-9
Page 2 of 7
TOGO
PRIVATE ENTEPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table A: CLASSIFICATION OF PARABPULIC ENTERPRISES AS OF JANUARY 20, 1986
amnpses satat for                   fterprises retained In the
priwwing/IA~d4aticnt                      paraubli sector
I            II             II
~77~ 7j P eru.n.itly  Privatfed    To be pivatized
closed (in                  (or restuctuwd)
Sector                __d_                        ____
A
i~~~~~~~~~~~~AU SIIS                                                aLal
I                ~~~~~PAL      LW!?
MIdtUWmdImTiVhtEy                                 W                     Or?
SIR         m
sa                    CIueD        BATA
IVaSW                               SD
C ~ ~ ~ ~~~~SM
Agriture,            CIE. DU8 DN     9S1K        mm                     S(K          cm
stockreft.           sIYUIf         saRArr    HIUrUAIFS  aAIS          QPAT           MP
fidwdsi, glO-        TO                            .                                   SLADL
foed t -mtrip a                                                           -aW        SW
D
Comuo.m and          iX )V1U                     TO(OB1S                S(mAm
I aPot               SOWT                        smm                    ONA
-^, d I~~~~~~~~~~~flQE R   S~
SNI/E        Gil
HBD
w:           BN
F
HDtels                                                                  1UMS D'EWAT
(SAUF GESl    M
A GBJP   !VRWS -
2 FEVRIf, SARNAKMa
PAIK,  1N, RNUA
G
Pdlc estalistunts  lOXEDM                        FAB                    SROC
fuictlwif   in       CM                          CAAN                   cEAT
a rtof                                           SD
aihinistrative servings                          ( lCEr3
Source: Hinistry of State Enterprises, 1986



TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table B: STATUS OJ PROGRAK IKPLEMENTATION
Company    Form of operation       Partners                    Effective Date   Couments
Privatization operations
already carried out
SOTEXMA    Lease of assets         CEMAG S.A.                  November 83       Takeover of stock of agricultural
(French Group TEG)                          equipment; term of lease: 5 years;
minimum annual rent: CFAF 60 million
S.N.S.     Lease of assets          S.T.S. (American           October 84        Takeover of plant manufacturing round
Group IBCON)                                 concrete castings; term of lease:
10 years; minimum annual rent;
CFAF 70 million
S.T.H.     Lease of assets         S.T.S.L. (Shell-Togo        December 84       Takeover of oil products siorage
Group)                                       facilities; term of lease: 6 years;
minimum annual rent:
CFAF 1,000 million
SOPROLAIT  Lease of assets          FAN MILK (Danish           October 85        Term of lease: 10 years; minimum annual
Group EMIDAN)                                rent: ClAF 25 million
SOTOMA     Transfer of assets       - Norwegian Group          October 86       Asset transfer price: CFAF 280 million;
to a new societe          NORCEM                                     new company with capital of
d'6conomie mixte        - CIMTOGO                                    CFAF 500 million, of which 30Z to the
- Togolese Government                        State for contribution in kind
x
0 5
o0I



TOO
PRIVATE UNER$PRISE DEVEIDP NT PROJBCT
Table B: STATUS OF PROGRAM INPLEFIOU  (continued)
Company    Form of operation        Partners                    Effective Date   Comments
SODETO     Transfer of assets       - Danish Group              November 86      Asset transfer price: CFAJ 150 million
DOW-KEMI backed
by IPU (512)
- 1 Togolese investor
(492)
ITP        Capital increase         - 2 industrialists:         September 86      State participation reduced from 902 to
subscribed by private     WAVIN and PUMPENBOESE                       42Z; long-term loans of CFAF 300 million
investors in the        - 2 financial institu-                        and subsidies of CFAF 185 million FROM
amount of                  tions: IFU (Denmark);                      the new partners; complete privatization
CFAP 395 million           FMO (Netherlands)                          envisaged at a later stage
Privatization operations
in progress
10U/      Transfer of 1002 of      - CFDT 512                                   A memorandum of agreement has been signed;
HUILERIES  assets (approx.          - SGGG-TOTO 252                               the promoter Is plannlng expansion
TOGOLAISES (CFAF 1.5 billion)       - Other private investors                     of milling capacity and installation
242                                        of a refinery; contract signature
expected first quarter of 1987
wt



TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table B: STATUS OF PROGRAM IMPLENTATION (continued)
Company    Form of operation       Partners                    Effective Date   Comunts
ITT/       Transfer of 100I        - PEN AFRICA TEXTILE CORP.                   Settlement of bankruptcy of former
TOGOTEX    of "ssets (approx.         (U.S./Korean group)                       companies practically completed; a
CPAF 3 billion)         - IPC                                        protocol has been si8Ded as well as
- Private Togolese                          a investment agreement from IC;
investors                                 production of knits, woven and made-up
goods for export to the U.S.A.; contract
signature expected first quarter 1987
SALINTO    Transfer of 100i        - 1 private Togolese                         Negotiations In progress; signature
of assets (approx.        promoter                                   expected first quarter 1987
CFAY 25 million)
TOGOROUTE  Transfer of assets      - I GermanfDanish group                      Objective of potential partner Is
with minority equity      identified (trasport                       integration of Europe-Togo sea and
participation by the      sector)                                    road transport
State In the new
company    -
SOTOTOLES  Tvausfer of assets      S.T.S. has made an offer                     The Government finds this bid too low and
of CFAF 350 million                         is seeking other offers; settlement of
legal and financial disputes with
original promoter in progress; assets
estimated by IFC at CFAF 420 million
OTODI      If possible, transfer   Search for new operators                     No serious bid has been received
of assets; if not,      in progress
lease



TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table B: STATUS OF PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION (continued)
Company    Form of operation        Partners                    Effective Date, Comments
SOTCON     Transfer of assets       - A bid from SANECOM is                      Provisional leasing of SOTCONts assets
(approx.                  under study                                 to the Togolese company SANECOM is in
CFAF 80 million).       - A foreign bid is under                      progress
study
Exiterprises for which
the disengagement
strategy has yet to be
decided
F.A.B.                                                                           Total privatization through sale of    o
assets to a private promoter
-CAAN        -                                                                    Total privatization; search for a
private Togolese operator, possibly
in partnership with a foreign
professional in the field
SITO                                                                             Partial privatization through opening
up of capital stock. Search for
partners with a professional background
in real estate promotion. SCET has
submitted a bid to take over 20% of the
capital stock.
CENETI                                                                           Strategy not yet defined.  SOTED is   :3
carrying out a study to assess the
potential viability or this
enterprise.o 



TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Table B: STATUS OF PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION (continued)
Company    Form of operation       Partners                    Effective Date   Comments
SOTED                                                                           Opening up of the capital stock to
private partners, to allow for
diversification of activities at
the regional level
SOTONAM                                                                         Overall restructuring with capital
increase, to allow for the admission
of partners with professional
experience in maritime transport
I-
SATELIT                                                                         Goal not yet formulated 
WAPID
March 1987
24



-       m   mmmr _mw
TOM um W5          rim  I, D 35 am  If SO=AN         18/
1982           S               im               _             1984
iwr    Nt                    Shw    WIN          iluA  i      bw   Noh    L                sr
~~~~~~i-  WkL
tm       ten o=   ern      m     tok trn   or    crn                     am     u               tm      tm    t         U
1tm ftwtx
sid fIdg                       714      515     96    1,35       563     411    85   1,09       561     678    43   l,31       so      621    43   1.2S5
'a                             7,261      325    132    7,718   3,357      157    -    3,314      137   2,630    -    2,7      1,79    2,66     -    4,416
_EacbhS                        6,732    4,064    297   11,093   7.461   3,S6   2SD  11,497   7.12S   3,064   301  10.490   4,031   1,931   10    6.113
Ibw ad _r                         -     1,03      -      1.053     64      731    -      795       6      601    -    1,21        75     S77    -       652
~arnt1m =  V l  w              3,166      313     -     3,499   2,927  216    -    3,193   4,149          154    -    4,33    3,632      405    -    4,117
1~rns                         15,218    1,647     40   16,905  16,3P   1,975    46  18,325    .913   3,          41  9,179  19,616   3,79        4  25.
1gt m1cam _                    1,327      278     10    1,615   1,651      211    10   1,872   1,         23     -    1,743   1,74       m      -    2,1
Cd992   _                                        1       4.90    1.1    5.23             64 1,                    3   6-  1,253  S_             716   6.W
3mm  0m4         _b         35.4     12.06     692   46.1    33,7   12,3    697  46,1   316   1S,479    M   47.743  32.73   1S5,3    66   4,3
_epk   rpuqli  (14.725)  (2.10    (9  (17,234) (9,) (2,192  (19) (1,209  (6.3    (4,164) C0M) (10.7)  (4,W) (32    C.)  (sag)
mm a                         9,390       4,726--    14,116    ,40        4,662--    14,2 11,3    -2.751--   14,142  12.3  -4,A7
11XL___                                        -      -l¢     _        _ -- .__ '             --   '__                                    '               o
35 31ff                   44,820    -17,444         6 2264  43,80  -17,76-     61616  42.787  -19,           0  61.5  45          -8            63,078
ia A d.cmvd to dts C.trale des Rims.a dT
dj oay la" of   wU    OM 5 sflJam -&laxed Si cLimb.
rnmm H=



- 63 -
Anrex 2-11
TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SECTORAL CREDIT POLICY /a
(% of outstanding credits as of September of each year)
TARGET                   ACTUAL
1982-83  1984-85  1982      1983     1984    1985
I.  Priority sectors          40      42      31.3     36.0     29.5    32.5
Agriculture               15      15     13.0      10.6      3.2     3.3
Production               5       5      3.0       2.6      3.0     3.0
Marketing               10      10     10.0       8.0      0.2     0.3
SHE                       18      20     13.6      19.8     20.6    23.5
Manufacturing            8      10      4.9       5.4      5.5     5.6
Trade /b                 5       5      6.8      10.7     12.3    14.7
Services /b             5        5      1.9      3.7       2.8     3.2
Low-income housing         7       7      4.7       5.6      5.7     5.7
II. Non-priority sectors      60      58     68.7      64.0     70.5    67.5
a/   As declared to the Centrale des Risqiies du Togo.
b/   Only National SMEs of Trade and Services are considered as priority
entities.
SOURCE: BCEAO



- 64 -
Annex 3-1
Page 1 of 6
TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ministry of Planning and Mines
LomI
Togo
STATEMENT OF PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.        Since 1973, increased public revenues resulting from the rise in
export prices, and the shortage of Togolese entrepreneurs with adequate
financial and technical resources to invest in manufacturing, led the
Government to undertake a program of major projects, especially in
production activities. Unfortunately, these projects did not produce the
expected results, while their financing .ed to a sizeable foreign debt. In
1978, under the combined effects of the oil shock, the world recession, and
deteriorating terms of trade, Togo was confronted with an acute financial
crisis, characterized by a heavy foreign debt burde 'and an increased
deficit in public finances and the balance of payments. The Government
then decided to initiate a contractionary policy supported by a series of
IMF stabilization programs and two World Bank structural adjustment
programs. This policy enabled a substantial reduction to be made in these
deficits, thereby resolving in large part the major economic imbalances.
2.        Compounded by the worldwide recession, the cost of the
contractionary policy was particularly heavy; the gross domestic product
decreased by 13 percent from 1980 to 1983, finally stabilizing in 1984.
The manufacturing sector was even more severely affected; several large
public enterprises with heavy operating losses had to be closed down, and
production and employment also decreased in private enterprises. On the
whole, the value added in the sector decl,ined by almost 25 percent between
1980 and 1984, recovering with an increase of 5 percent in 1985 and
3.4 percent in 1986.
3.        This recovery remains fragile.  Too's foreign earnings depend
heavily on four basic commodities, i.e. phosphate, cotton, coffee and
cocoa, whose prices fluctuate sharply while the debt continues to represent
a considerable burden for public finances and the balance of payments.
Furthermore, Togo has an extremely open economy, and in 1985 imported goods
and services still accounted for 45 percent of the gross domestic product.
4.        These circumstances call for cautious economic management.  The
Government intends to pursue its structural adjustment policy and establish
solid economic conditions in pursuit of a balanced and sustainable growth.
MHaor Trends
5.        Togo's industrial policy must take into account the realities of
the prevailing situation. The manufacturing sector is small, contributing
only 7 percent to the 1985 gross domestic product, almost half of which
4



- 65 -
Annex 3-1
Page 2 of 6
from the informal sector. Manufacturing enterprises in the formal sector
provided less than 1 percent of domestic employment.
6.        Previous industrial policies primarily emphasized import
substitution. Manufacturing enterprises have often confined themselves to
the final processing of imported inputs, with a low value added, and the
degree of integration of domestic production remains very low. Such is the
case for the agro-foodstuffs subsector, accounting for over one half of the
sector's total value added, in which the four largest enterprises process
primarily imported inputs. In the other industrial sectors as well, the
production of intermediate goods is little develQped. Furthermore, exports
of manufactured products are insignificant, at most amounting to
3-3.5 percent of total sales.
7.        Taking into consideration the disappointing experience of large
public projects, the Government has now decided to orient its industrial
policy towards developing private enterprises, relying on their potential
dynamism to ensure sustained growth in the sector's production. However,
the domestic market is limited, and the scope for import substitution is
gradually being exhausted. For the most part, new enterprises should be
export-oriented, which they can successfully do by exploiting Togo's
comparative advantages which derive from a significant agricultural
capacity, a skilled and sizeable labor force, a well-equipped
infrastructure and efficient service industries.
8.        However, on account of the generally small size of these
enterprises, many of which lack administrative and technical experience,
their limited access to credit, and their insufficient export contacts,
this potential can only be achieved if the Government and its economic
partners jointly endeavor to establish conditions that are conducive to the
development of Togo.
9.        In light of the foregoing, new orientations have been taken,
namely:
-    selective retrenchment of the State in the industrial sector;
-    valorization of natural resources;
-    promotion of export industries;
-    promotion of SMEs;
-    decentralization of industrial production; and
-    regional cooperation.
10.       With a view to promoting a robust private sector, diversifying
the economy and creating employment, the Government intends to embark on a
dynamic development program including the following three components:
(a) establishment of an efficient and credible promotion structure;
(b) improvement of the incentives and regulatory framework; and



- 66 -
Annex 3-1
Page 3 of 6
(c) transfer of the State's share in productive enterprises to the
private sector.
11.       In order to reduce the heavy dependency of local industries on
imported inputs the Government will support endeavors to systematically
identify mining, agricultural and other local resource potentialities and
to exploit or process these resources in an economically efficient manner,
and with appropriate technologies. I
12.       In line with these objectives the Conseil Superieur de
Normalisation will be established to promote quality standards as well as a
National Technology Center to support the transfer of adapted technologies.
13.       Particular emphasis is to be put on the promotion of small-scale
and artisanal enterprises which are essential to the country's industrial
development and to its fight against unemployment, through specific
programs, in particular those that would aim at integrating the informal
sector and the formal sector of the economy.
Investment Promotion
14.       The Government is aware of major tdministrative, technical and
financial difficulties facing Togolese investors in the implementation of
their investment projects, on account of the lack; of any support structure.
It has therefore urged economic operators to work together toward (a) the
establishment of a new agency, the Centre Togolais des Investisseurs (CTI),
and (b) the strengthening of the Division d'Assistance aux Entrenrises
(DIVA) within the Chambre de Commerce, d'Agriculture et d'Industrie du Togo
(CCAIT), with a view to providing the necessary support services to
investors.
15.       In December 1986, Togolese banks, the Chamber of Commerce and
major economic groups decided to join forces to create the CTI. The State
supports this institution to which it will provide assistance.  It also
wants to keep itself informed of the Togolese industrial community's
expectations and to this end it will request the CTI to organize periodic
forums in which the Administration and the economic operators will openly
discuss their respective concerns. on the other hand, the Government has
no intention of interfering in the administration and management of CTI, an
organization created by and for the private sector, and it will only
participate as an observer in the workings of CTI's Board of Directors.
The CTI's primary responsibility will be to help project sponsors set up
their development projects, indluding assistance to them in their contacts
with the Administration, financial institutions, and consulting firms. To
enable it to perform these functions the CTI will have its own resources,
and will manage a Studies Fund (Fonds de participation aux prestations de
service - FPPS), which is to be funded by a grant from the State and which
will provide financial support to investors in carrying out their project
studies. The Division d'Assistance aux Entreprises de la Chambre de
Commerce, to be reorganized in 1987, will be responsible for providing the



- 67 -
Annex 3-1
Psae 4 of 6
support services required by the enterprises in their day-to-day
operations.
16.       This assistance to promotional agencies will be supplemented by a
program to encourage local service firmn (accounting and consulting firms)
in carrying out investment studies through financial contributions by FPPS
toward the cost of these studies, which often exceeds the inve3tors'
limited resources. Moreover, aonrolriate flasncial resources are to be
made available to investors by Togolese banks for financing of viable
investment projects, with lending terms that would be in line with the
investors' repayment capacity. Finally, the Government wishes to encourage
the creation of mutual guarantee associations, which represents an
innovative approach to the problem of credit risk inherent in financing
small businesses. In 1987, a program will be initiated to establish two
such associations on a pilot basis.
17.       Furthermore, in recognition of the crucial lmportance of the
entrepreneur in the success of a development project, the Government
launched, at end-1986, an entrenreneurshln develoument groatrm, drawing on
the experience of similar programs in other countries, but adapted to the
Togolese socio-cultural environment. This pro#ram uses behavioural
sciences to identify potential entrepreneurs, lelps them select, design and
set up their projects, and provides them vith practical and relevant
training and finally with post-establiebment support to enable them to
overcome the usual obstacles associated with the operation of a new
business. Thb program is now in its operational phase and the first
practical results are expected in 1988.
Imorovement of the Incentive System
18.       The Government has already taken important steps to foster the
development of manufacturing enterprises. A new Fiscal Code was
promulgated in 1984. At the same time, the complex system of import duties
has been simplified; the local tax and the TBFTT were combined into a
single Tax on Transactions (TT). Their combined base rate was increased
from 24 percent to 26 percent, but basic coamodities and transit trade
products benefited from reduced rates (22, 6 and 3 percent respectively).
In April 1986, fiscal import duties were reduced for certain industrial
importers.                                %
19.       A new Investment Code was promulgated in 198S5.  In relation to
the previous Code, it represents a significant improvement, particularly on
account of increased benefits accorded small- and medium-scale enterprises,
and on account of the temporary nature of the benefits granted, which
reduces the danger of artificially maintaining in activity inefficient
enterprises and of the creation of economic rent.
20.       In April 1986, the Government virtually abolished most export
taxes for industrial products manufactured in Togo. Furthermore, in
addition to the benefit of temporary admission, the Customs Tariff enables
exporters to be reimbursed for duties paid on imported inputs, thereby



-'68 -
Annex 3-1
Page 5 of 6
making their products more competitive o,n the international market.
Finally, the State created a free trade zone to encourage the establishment
of export industries.
21.       However, the incentives system requires further improvements
which the Government is determined to undertake in a timely fashion, as
vell as to reactivate certain existing measures which have not yielded the
expected results.
22.       Export Promotion.  Since the price structure remains biased in
favor of production for the local market, new initiatives are required to
promote exports. Thus export licenses will be abolished for export
industrial goods not later than March 31,.1988. A system to collect
statistics on exports will be studied and adopted before December 1987, in
substitution of the statistical information provided by the current system.
The new system will be operational rnt later than March 31, 1988.
23.       Price Control.  In 1987, the Goverament'will review the price
control system, with a view to eliminating the prior authorization
procedure for locally manufactured goods.
24.       Installation Permit.  The installation permit required for each
Togolese enterprise, needs to be reviewed. This procedure, which grants
permits on a temporary basis, to be renewed every two, three or five years,
is a source of uncertainty for entrepreneurs. The Government has now
decided to review this procedure before December 31, 1987 with a view to
abolishing the renewal requirement thereby eliminating all associated
uncertainties. Since the current system is useful in ensuring enterprises'
conformity with the fiscal legislation, the review will take this into
consideration. The Government will later study ways to replace this permit
process with a simple registration procedure not requiring prior
authorization.                            1
25.       Investment Code.  The present Code was promulgated in
January 1985. The resumption of operations by the National Investment
Commission (Commission Nationale des Investissements et Comite de la
Charte) enabled a certain number of projects 1o obtain benefits granted by
the new Code. Additional improvements are presently being studied and will
be adopted as soon as meaningful lessons have been drawn from implementing
the present measures. These improvements could relate to: (i) a reduction
in access threshold levels, which presently favor large enterprises;
(ii) strengthened control in granting special benefits to type-B
enterprises; (iii) a revised formula to calculate the value added which
determines certain advantages to be granted to enterprises by the
Investment Code (and the Charte); a formula integrating the factor cost,
instead of the market price as at present, in order to eliminate the
existing distortion which favors goods produced for domestic consumption as
compared to those manufactured for export; (iv) abolishing exemptions from
import taxes for capital goods, since these exemptions encourage highly
equipment intensive industries to the detriment of labor intensive
industries, and exemptions on intermediate inputs which go against the



- 69 -
Annex 3-1
Page 6 of 6
vertical integration of production; (v) a better control over enterprises
to ensure their compliance with the conditions under which the benefits of
the Code and the Charte were granted (at present this control is being
exercized by the administrative authorities merely on the basis of the
dossier available, without a subsequent follow-up to ascertain actual
compliance). The Government intends to overhaul the present Code,
incorporating appropriate reforms before end-1988.
26.       Protection Aaainst Imports.  At present, significant variations
exist in the respective protection levels for local industries. In certain
cases this level is very high, thus allowing excessively high prices which
penalize the consumer. In other instances the protection level is low,
even negative, with the possibility that higher duties are paid on the
imported inputs of a particular product than on the finished imported
product. In recognition of the need to eliminate these harmful economic
distortions and in the context of its next stru-tural adjustment program,
the Government is currently reviewing a proposal for reforming the
protection system, which it expects to implement before end-1987.
State Withdrawal from Productive Activities
27.       In line with its policy to selectively withdraw its involvement
in productive activities and in light of the growing capability of the
private sector in Togo to gra1ually take over the financing and management
of the country's large industrial enterprises, the State initiated a
privatization program for a number of public enterprises in 1982. This
program, presently bearing on approximately 20 enterprises, will eventually
include all public enterprises other than those of strategic importance or
public utilities. Given the technical complexity and sizeable financial
requirements of certain operations, the program will occasionally involve
the technical and financial participation of foreign investors. The
Government, however, seeks to increase the involvement of Togolese
investors in these enterprises and will therefore make available the
necessary resources. To that end, the State intends to encourage the
creation of a specialized financial institution which will, on the one
hand, invest in large enterprises, and on the other hand issue securities,
participative shares and bonds which the holders could buy and sell at any
time. A study, to lead to the establishment of such institution, will be
undertaken during the first semester of 1987.
B.M. BARQUE
Minister of Planning and Mines
Lome, Togo
June, 1987



- 70 -
Annex 3-2
Page 1 of 5
TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ENTREPRENEURSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
In parallel to the Project, an. Entrepreneurship Development
Programlis being introduced in Togo. This program, which uses behavioral
sciences techniques to select entrepreneurs with high potential, reinforces
their entrepreneurial orientation (using trainers/motivators) and assist
them in starting and running their enterprises, would train
trainers/motivators who in turn would select and train future entrepreneurs
and assist them in the development of their projects. The program
described below draws on the resources and methodology of the
Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII), but other
institutions have developed programs based on the same approach and could
be used independently or jointly with EDII. In Togo EDII has undertaken a
preliminary Country Review (Phase I of prdgram) and trained three
trainers/motivators (Phase II). The Ministr* of Technical Education and
Technical Training has indicated its strong interest in the program which
would be undertaken through an SPPF under preparation.
Objectives of the Program
The objectives of EDP's should be seen as the following:
(a)  To help accelerate detelopment by identifying local persons for
entrepreneurial activity;
(b) To help develop a class of "owners" as against "employees" by
widening entrepreneurial and self employment opportunities;
(c) To provide the basis for future medium and large enterprises;
(d) To enable development of local human resources, widen skill
formation and exploit local natural resources;
(e) To help identify and develop local trainer motivators to carry
out the activity and thereby have a program "for locals by
locals"; and
(f) To identify and develop a local institution to act as the nodal
agency so that the activity can be carried out on a continuous
basis.
Process
The objectives listed above can be accomplished through a process
involving the following steps:
(a) Country review to assess the SSE related activities and
institutions and to identify an appropriate nodal organixation
for EDP's;



- 71 -
Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 5
(b) Training of a core group of Trainer/Motivators;
(c) Preparation for Opportunity Guidance;
(d) Conducting an EDP for 30 candidates; and
(e) Follow up to ensure continuation qf process.
Steps (a) to (d) above can be carried out in four stages, at the end of
which, as a target, 30 candidates would have been identified, of which 25
should have completed the program and be ready to set up small
manufacturing or service enterprises.
Country Review - Stage I
At the outset two persons (a Senior Trainer and a Field Trainer)
from EDII would visit Togo for 15 working days (3 weeks) to review the
profiles of agencies engaged in SSE promotion (inter alia those in the
financial sector) including their professional resources. Since the links
between identification of strong potential entrepreneurs and a viable
enterprise are many, this team would also identify in a preliminary fashion
the constraints in the whole system such as technical assistance and credit
delivery, in infrastructure, regulations, etc. At the conclusion of this
review the nodal organization to act as a Center for Entrepreneurship
Development (CED) will have been identified. The Center will organize the
EDP in association with EDII and provide al8 the local support required.
During the review the EDII team would have also identified a core group of
4 to 5 persofs from the Center on the basis of their knowledge, skills and
aptitude to work as entrepreneur trainer/motivator/facilitators. The
application of EDII experience towards this task is a major objective of
this stage. (The decision to establish a separate center may be taken at a
later stage.)
During the visit the EDII team will also try to organize an
informal Advisory Board among the agencies engaged in the promotion of
SSE's - consisting of representatives at the level of Chief Executives if
possible of the development bank, small enterprise promotion organization,
Investmbnt Center, the commercial banks which support SSE's and the Chamber
of Commerce. This Board is intended to provide an integrated approach to
not only EDP's but also SSE development, and to reflect future financial
support for EDP's. The Board could act as a policy making body to provide
guidelines to the CED on the number and nature of EDP's, locations, future
budgets, monitoring of results, etc. During this entire stage the presence
in the country of Bank staff from the IDF Division with country knowledge
would be highly desirable. Alternatively the resident mission would be
asked to provide active assistance to the EDII team.
Training of Trainers - Stage II
This stage consists essentially of training of the core group of
4 to 5 trainer/motivators in EDII India for a period of 2 months. This



- 72 -
Annex 3-2
Page 3 of 5
would include on the job training, visits to ongoing EDP's in selected
states in India and to those most closely resembling Togolese conditions.
The trainer/motivator is the key to the EDP process with responsibility
starting at identifying potential entrepreneuzs through the establishment
of successful business ventures. They have to be able to not only train
but motivate, lead, counsel and support their entrepreneur-candidates. It
is a role of motivator, promoter, counsellor, manager and development
officer rolled in one. The thrust of EDII's training for them is on
attitudes, styles, communication skills and technical knowledge required by
trainer/motivators to succeed. (In the profile of candidates for
trainer/motivator EDII maintains that a high degree of extension motivation
is the most important.)
Opportunity Guidance - Stage III
The lack of knowledge of local natural resources, problems of
factor endowments, limited local markets and the absence of motivation
among locals for an entrepreneurial career call for special efforts at
identification of appropriate opportunities. These have to match the
educational levels of the target group, availability of skilled/unskilled
labor and infrastructure, ability for imports of machinery, available raw
materials for transformation, etc.
This task will be carried out by the trained Togolese core group
with major assistance from two technical staff provided by EDII (with
experience in this activity in remote parts of India) over a period of a
month. The team will use available data on natural resources, markets and
skill formation and atterpt to arrive at outlines of 20 tc. .0 potentially
viable project ideas. The team will take into account the social are
cultural backgrounds of the local population and their consumption
patterns.
The First EDP - Stage IV
This will follow back to back with Stage III. It will be carried
out with the active participation and assistance of two EDII faculty who
will remain in the country for 5-6 months, starting with the Opportunity
Guidance stage and have the EDII-trained Togolese trainer/motivators
conducting the EDP. In addition, a Senior Faculty from EDII will visit for
2-3 week periods each to assist in the Selection, Motivation and Project
Feasibility Report phases.
Since entrepreneurial characteristics are shown to be common
across cultures for the EDP, the same selection mechanism will be used as
that in India with modifications (especially of language/terminology) to
suit local conditions. EDII will adapt the application from and written
tests for local use reliing or the Togolese trainer/motivators. The EDP
will be initiated by a promotional program to create an awareness of the
program among the target group using local communications media identified
in Stage I. The better this effort, the wider the choice for the selection
of participants. Selection will be followed by the training program



- 73 -
Annex 3-2
Page 4 of 5
including information on the institutional environment such as agencies and
schemes assisting SSE's, formalities, etc. Next, Opportunity Guidance and
Counselling will be followed by assistance in market surveys for their
chosen product. The Achievement Motivation Training designed for
industry/business entrepreneurship to "develop" essential entrepreneurial
traits - which candidates already possess above the required minimum level
- is next to get participants ready to finalize their goals in the form of
a Project Report. The Senior Faculty of EDII are central at this stage.
This will include key sessions on Production Planning, Capital Structure,
Fixed Capital, Working Capital, Break Even Analysis, Site Selection,
Equipment Selection, etc. Development of managerial skills is last. This
will include sessions on financial management, accounts, marketing,
organizational behavior, labor regulations, personnel management, etc. To
the extent possible local resource persons (i.e. existing practitioners
from nearby areas) will be drawn upon to counsel on these subjects. The
EDII has found that in areas where there is too limited exposure to modern
industry, a visit to cities with such industrial plants has been a useful
complement.
Post Training Support
In the first place this will have to come in the form of
assistance towards securing financial assistance - for this the
trainer/motivator and the EDII faculty can assist. Thereafter comes the
issue of post-start up assistance as and when needed.  Here it is necessary
to look towards the extension service delivery system for SSE's to ensure
that they provide an outreach when needed and which is pitched at the level
needed.
Necessary conditions to ensure success of EDPs
(a) Organization
(i) The Organization to carry out EDPs should be independent
with a high degree of freedom at the policy and operational
levels. A desirable form would be a non-profit institution
combining the roles of education and training and research.
Its board should include representatives of Government,
Chief executives of term lending and other financial
institutions, and representatives of trade/industry and
similar professional organizations.
(ii) The Organization's Chief Executive needs flexibility and
autonomy at the operational level. He should be a reputed
and accomplished person with high executive ability. His
focus should include long term activities.
(iii) The Organization's staffing should begin with the training
element in mind and later add research capability. The
personality traits and commitment levels of the staff are
seen as relatively more important than education levels.



- 74 -
Annex 3-2
Page 5 of S
(b) 8upport Requirements
(1)  Institutional
The Organization should be supported by term lending Institutions
and those dealing with infrastructure In providing the assistance
needed by trained entrepreneurs in terms of physical/financial
facilities. This can be ensured by having these institutions on
the governing body and by a financial stake in the funding of the
organization.
(11)  Government
Provision of incentives to trained entrepreneurs in particular
and all first generation entrepreneurs in general; influence
various institutions involved to provide post training support to
entrepreneurs; enable the Organization and its Chief Executive to
function independently.
(1ii)  Financial
Contributions from the State, term lending institutions, etc.,
towards t'- capital expenditures of the Organizatiou; and
similarly towards a "Corpus Fund" to meet the overheads of the
Organization.
VAPID
March 1987



-75-
Annex 3-3
PaLe 1 of 2
TOGO
PRI VATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO CTI - TERMS OF REFERENCE
SSoW of tho assistance
i.        Assistance In establishing 'Centre Togolais des Investisseurs
(CTI) and Initiating Its operations. Tasks to be carried out include:
Establisbment of CTI
(a)  desig  and Implementation of CTI'a internal organization,
adufinstrative procedures and accounting system;
(b)  design, implementation and foIllow-up of a monitoring and
Information system for CTI-assisted enterprises, including
sectoral studies, central roster of projects, entrepreneur and
*project dossiers, SHE reporting requirements, etc.;
(c) proposal for, and implementation of, criteria and procedures for
financing support services to enterprises under CTI's Studies
Fund (fonds de finAncement des prestations de service);
Start-up of operations
(a) referral and Information services for national and foreign
investors;
(b) assistance in establishing-terms of reference for project
feasibility studies, appraisal format and lending criteria (in
consultation with Topgolqse banks);
(c) identification of bottlenecks and obstacles to enterprise
development, research of possible solutions, in consultation with
the Togolese Administration;
(d) development of working relationships with other national,
regional and international organizations promoting private
enterprises; and.
(e) review of services rendered to enterprises by consulting and
accounting firms.



- 76 -
Annex 3-3
Page 2 of 2
Assistance provided and expertise required
2.        A resident technical adviser in Organization/SHE promotion will
be financed for three years under the:project. The adviser should have
postgraduate training in business administration and a five year experience
in private enterprise promotion in developing countries. A banking
experience in term financing of SHE would be desirable. Personal qualities
would include a practical frame of mind, a strong sense of commitment, and
an inclination for team work. French would be the working language, but
English is also desirable.
WAPID
March 1987



- 77 -
Annex 3-4
TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (DIVA) - TERMS OF REFERENCE
Scope of the assistance
1.        Assistance in the setting up of the unit; specifically
contribution to:
(a) finalization of the unit's organization and preparation of job
descriptions;
(b) preparation of internal regulations and procedures; and
(c) proposal for a work program and an operating budget for the unit.
2.        Assistance in starting-up and subsequent operations of the three
sections of the unit, principally the technical information center and the
training and extension sections. The main features of the expert's
assignment would be as follows:
(a) setting-up the system for collecting/actualizing/disseminating
appropriate technical information specifically geared to the
needs of Togolese entrepreneurs;
(b) preparation of standard management tools (i.e. accounting plans,
inventory control systems, personnel management systems,
marketing plans);
(c) organization of seminars (and other extension mechanisms) on
general operational problems faced by entrepreneurs (relying
principally on the standard management material prepared by the
unit) and other areas of special interest; and
(d) in conjunction with CTI, trouble-shooting diagnosis/orientation
for enterprises facing operational problems.
Assistance provided and expertise required
3.        A resident technical adviser will be financed for two years under
the project. The adviser should have strong experience of SME operations
in Africa and be equally qualified in the managerial and administrative
aspects (general management, accounting) and in the technical aspects of
SME management. In order to ensure close cooperation between CTI and DIVA,
it might be advisable that the adviser belong to the same consulting firm
as the resident adviser to CTI.
WAPID
March 1987



-78 -
Amex 3-S
Page 1 of 2
TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANGE TO THE MINISTRY OF STATE ENTERPRISES -
TERMS OF REFERECE
1.  Background
1.        Since 1982, the Government of Togo has been engaged In a
restructuring program of its public enterprises through the
liquidation/privatization of a number of enterprises and the
reorganization/rehabilitation of enterprises maintained in the public
portfolio. In 1984, the Ministry of State Enterprises (NSE) was
established to speed up the process and monitor it more efficiently. The
program, backed by several IDA credits, yielded only limited results until
mid-1986. Out of the 24 enterprises slated for privatization, only four
had been taken over by private operators (through a lease of assets) under
financial arrangements usually in no relation to the substantial amounta
invested in these ventures I/
2.        In the second part of 1986, the results were more encouragiag:
the privatization of four enterprises, through the sale of their assets or
capital, is well advanced.  Still the Government, reckoning that the
response of the international business community has been extremely
reserved, and desiring to have a better control over and a stronger band In
the privatization process, is seeking the assistance of a specialized
financial institution which will provide the necessary opening on the
international community and the technical skills necessary to assess the
strategic potentialities of the enterprises slated for privatization.
3.        The financing of this technical assistance would be provided by
an IDA credit supporting a project under preparation to promote the
emergence of a stronger private sector in Togo (private enterprise
development project).
2.   Scope of the assistance
4.       T1ie assistance to be provided iould consist principally of the
following:
(a) assistance in refining the overall privatization policy and In
reviewing from time to time the classification of the parast8tal
portfolio;
1/   In addition, eight enterprises were slated for liquidation and 39
untouched by the program, including 16 agricultural/industrial
enterprises.



- 79 -
Anne  3-5
PaRs 2 of 2
(b) for each enterprise slated for privatization, preparation of a
privatization dossier based on a strategic evaluation of the
enterprise concerned and consisting of the following
(i) description of the current facility (output, equipment, labor
force, financial performance); (ii) proposed activities of the
restructured company; (iii) technical and financial requirements
of the restructuring, in particular need for additional
financing; (iv) Impact on the existing labor force;
(v) assessment of the present value of the enterprise as an
ongoing concern; and (vi) recommendation on the most appropriate
privatization method (sale of capital, sale of assets, leaQe,
management contracts); and
(c) assistance in identification of and negotiation with potential
privatization partners and in evaluation of bids. The resident
adviser would also be expected to assist the Government In
reviewing certain privatization arrangements already in force in
order to ensure their appropriateness or alternatively with a
view to renegotiating them; finally, he would also be consulted
on the identification of parastatals, currently classified as
those to be maintained in the public portfolio, and which might,
however, be suitable for partial or total privatization.
3.   Form of assistance provided and expertise required
5.        Technical assistance would be provided by a well-established
international financial institution specialized in international
mergers/joint ventures/acquisitions with relevant experience in developing
countries. The institution would be responsible for the provision of (i) a
resident adviser seconded for two years, attached to the Minister's cabinet
and reporting directly to the Minister of State Enterprises; and
(ii) punctual back-up services for the identification of potential
investors and specialized technical expertise (12 man/months). While the
resident adviser, who will have a strong background in industrial finance,
will generally be able to provide the bulk of the assistance necessary,
back-up from his company will be essential in the following: (i) aaking use
of their experience and international network in the identification of
potential investors for enterprises slated for privatization and the
initiation of preliminary contacts in close cooperation with MSE;
(ii) provision of specialized technical expertise in specific cases; and
(iii) review of privatization strategy/company potentialities in delicate
instances/for larger companies.
WAPID
Narch 1987



- 80 -
Annex 3-6
Page 1 of 2
TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MUTUAL INVESTMENT FUND - TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.   Background
Since 1982 the Government of Togo has been engaged in the
restructuring of its public enterprises through the
liquidation/privatiz,ation of a number of them. While withdrawing from its
direct involvement in the productive sector, the Government is attempting
to promote the development of a strong private sector. However, financial
and technical capabilities of individual Togolese investors are limited and
usually prevent them from taking direct participation in the capital of
large enterprises. On the other hand, financial reserves are available in*
Togo, as illustrated by the liquidity of commercial banks, and several
institutional creditors (OTP, OPAT, Social Security Pension Fund) have
large ill-utilized short-term deposits in the financial system. It is,
therefore, envisaged that a specialized financial institution be
established - a mutual investment fund - to hold shares in large
enterprises, particularly those being privatized and in turn to issue
securities (bonds or shares) to be purchased by private shareholders and
institutional investors. In a first phase and in the frame of an
IDA-financed project under preparation to promote private enterprise
development, a feasibility study would be conducted to determine the
viability and particularities of this Fund. The present terms of reference
concern this study.
2.   Scope of the Study
The main ob;jectives of the study would be as follows: (i) to
evaluate the potential size and composition of the portfolio to be held by
the Fund as well as its potential yield; (ii) to determine the potential
resources which could be mobilized to purchase the securities issued by the
Fund (assessing the potential response by the parties concerned); (iii) to
describe the kind of securities (bonds, participative bonds, shares) to be
issued as well as the mechanism which will govern the purchase and resale
of these securities, including the mode of evaluation of their value at the
time; (iv) to define the proposed adminiatrative and organizational set-up
of the Fund, in light of the,current organization of the financial system
(in particular should the Fund be operated by existing financial
institutions/be established as an independent entity); (v) to assess the
viability of the proposed institution; and (vi) if the overall project
seems viable, to propose an implementation program, detailing the
logistical and financial implications.
3.   Services to be rendered and qualifications required
The consultant selected would be responsible for preparing the
feasibility study as described in paragraph 2 above (scope of the study).
A budget for approximately 3 man/months has been earmarked for this
purpose.  Given the specialized nature of the services to be rendered, the



- 81 -
Annex 3-6
Page 2 of 2
consultant selected should be from a financial institution specialized in
the establishment and managerial aspects of an investment Fund such as is
considered under this project, either due to their direct financial
participation in, or through daily dealings with, such an institution. In
addition, a good knowledge of banking practice in UMOA would be needed.
WAPID
March 1987



- 82 -
Annex 3-7
TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEMVLOP?NNT PROJECT
MICROENTERPRISE LENDING
The formal manufacturing sector consists of only about 100
enterprises employing 6500 persons (1982 figure). It is known that the
number of artisans in 1900 was over 14000. Artisanal production
contributed 7% of GDP roughly equal to that of the formal manufacturing
sector.  However, it is thought that informal sector in manufacturing may
actually employ more than three times that of the formal sector, or over
20,000 persons or more than 32 of the active populatlon. As about 602 of
the employment in the formal industrial sector is in public or mixed
enterprises, those engaged in the artisanal and informal sector enterprises
account for over 802 of those employed in the private Industrial sector.
These very small industrial operations - artisans, cottage
industries, informal sector - usually consisting of one person In family
production units represent an important reservoir of skills,
entrepreneurship, and employment. It is therefore proposed wlthin the
project to provide a limited program of support for the microenterpris
sector.
Experience has shown that microenterprise support programs have
best chances of success when left to local initiativest with a minimal
government's role.  It is however desirable to ensure that the government
adopts appropriate policies and regulations that do not Impede the
emergence and growth of microenterprises and their orderly graduation to
formal small enterprises.
The Microenterprise lending component under the Project would aim
to establish a suilably designed credit program to provide financial
assistance in amounts, nd under conditions that would respond to the neds
of these very small units. There are major problem in developing and
implementing lending programs for microenterprises. The cost of
intermediation of such lending is undoubtedly very high. The small amouts
involved (usually around US$500 to US$1000), the sparse information
available on prospective borrowers, the high costs of supervision and debt
collection all substantially raise the administrative costs of lending to
this sector. Some claim that lending to microenterprises involves hlgh
losses although this may be a perception based on the unstable character of
microenterprises rather than hard evidence that repayments of credits to
microenterprises are in reality poorer than In the case of loans made to
formal small and medium sized enterprises.
Even though the real risk element has yet to be determined In any
specific country, credit schemes must recognize and make allowance for the
high administrative and transactional costs of lending to microenterprises.
Most evidence seems to show that intermediaries involved In landlg to
microenterprises may need a spread of 8 to 111 to cover the costs agsist S
to 81 to small enterprises lending for sums of $2000 upwards. Even this



- 83 -
Annex 3-7
Page 2 of 2
higher spread may not adequately cover the training and technical
assistance inevitably needed for the microenterprises to take full
advantages of the potential growth made possible through the availability
of credits.
The most desirable objective would be to involve formal financial
institutions - principally commercial banks but also possibly development
finance institutions - in the microenterprise lending program. To do this
there would be need to reduce intermediation costs by having NGOs and other
non-profit or voluntary agencies assisting in selection and processing of
muicroenterprise borrowers. The term NGO covers a wide range of privately
funded foundations, voluntary services, philanthropic and religious
organizations, credit unigns and cooperatives. Some operate
internationally, other are local creations. A number of such NGOOs are
active in Togo and have developed effective programs in rural development,
water supply, health services, education and training especially in
agriculture. A selection 'will be made of suitable NGOs with the
appropriate staffing and with the right business outlook with a readiness
to cooperate with the mainstream financial institutions in the country.
Participating NOOs will be selected also on the basis of their geographical
coverage.
The microenterprise enterprise lending component will therefore
be developed along the following lines:
(i) Study of the policy and regulatory framework to ensure that
it is conducive to the emergence and healthy growth of
viable microenterprises.
(ii) Identifying suitable NGOs and other institutions that could
effectively act as intermediaries for preparing projects
among microenterprises for financing.
(iii) Design of the framework of a microenterprise lending program
based on a suitable onlending interest rate, and appropriate
spread for the intermediaries and a risk sharing or
guarantee scheme which together could provide a suitable
framework for negotiating with selected financial
institutions to undertake the implementation of a lending
program for microenterprises in cooperation with the NGOs
mentioned in (ii).
VAPID
March 1987



- 84 -
Annex 3-8
Page l'of 2
TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CENTRAL BANK REFINANCING CRITERIA
1.        In order to be eligible for Central Bank refinancing, all
intermediary banks and beneficiary enterprises are required to demonstrate
that they have a good management, satisfactory financial, cash flow and
liquidity positions as well as sound prospects for future profitability.
These are assessed by the Central Bank primarily on the basis of the
following principal requirements, although subjective factors also play a
part in Central Bank's evaluation of each individual beneficiary.
2.        Principal Requirements Applicable to Banks
(a)  Minimum share capital ............ At least CFAF 100 million
(b)  Net worth *.................... At least 61 of total loan
commitments
(c)  Short-term assets   ................ At least 751 of sight and
short-term liabilities
(d)  Cash holdings .................... At least 3% of total liquid
and short-term assets
(e)  Maximum Central Bank refinancing . 35% of total commitments
(f)  Exposure limits:
(1) Individual equity participations limited to 15% of a bank's
effective net worth, or 25% of the share capital of
beneficiary enterprises;
(2) Aggregate equity participations plus net fixed assets of a
bank limited to 100% of its net worth;
(3) Total credits to a single or to a group of closely related
beneficiaries limited to 100% of the bank's net worth;
(4) Total credit to the staff of a bank limited to 20% of its
effective net worth.
3.        Principal Requirements Applicable to Enterprises
(a)  Debt/Equity ..................... Deterimined on a case by case
basis taking into account the
type of activity and the
profitability but generally
expected not to exceed 3:1 for
most enterprises.



- 85 -
Annex 3-8
Page 2 of 2
(b)  Net Worth             ........... At least 5% of annual turixover.
(c)  Cash-flow           ....           At least 5% of annual turnover.
(d)  Net Working Capital ............. At least 10% of gross working
capital for activities with a
long cycle (i.e. seasonal
sales) or at least 5% for
activities with a short cycle.
4.        Enterprises not fully meeting the above requirements, classified
as second category enterprises, may also be eligible for Central Bank
refinanced loans provided, however, that (i) both their net worth and net
working capital positions are positive and that (ii) prospects for t1eir
profitability to Improve are good.
5.        Compliance with the above requirements is monitored by the
Central Bank on an annual basis. To that end, the Central Bank requires
that all year-end financial statements of beneficiary enterprises be
submitted to it by the intermediary banks.
WAPID
October 1986



- 86 -
Annex 3-9
Page 1 of 2
TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ADJUSTMENT MECHANISM OF THE FINAL LENDING RATE
1.        Following advice from the IMF and the Bank, BCEAO has of late
been adjusting interest rates more frequently to retain parity with
international rates, given that the CFAP is convertible and that capital
movements are unrestricted for UMOA countries. Under the proposed project,
the final lending rate to borrowers has been set (para. 3.11) as a function
of the preferential rediscounting rate (TEP) and of the normal
rediscounting rate (TEN). As the TEP and the TEN are expected to be
adjusted from time to time, to reflect periodic changes in the interest
rate policy set-up by BCEAO and in order to avoid potential difficulties in
the future utilization of the line of credit (resulting from either a fixed
rate or a rate to be adjusted only after consultation with IDA), it is
proposed to define a formula which will permit an automatic adjustment of
the final lending rate in case of changes in the reference rates. This
formula should integrate the respective average spreads on preferential
credit (MTEP) and normal credit (MTEN), and since the project calls for a
uniform rate for SMEs and for larger enterprises, should also integrate the
respective weights given to the normal rate (a) and to the preferential
rate (b). In the interest of ease of application, the following formula is
proposed:
Ts - a(TEN + MTEN) + b(TEP + MTEP)
a + b
with
Ts - final lending rate. (before TPS).
TEP - Preferential lending rate.
MTEP - Average spread on loans extended at the preferential rate.
TEN - Normal lending rate.
MTEN - Average spread on loans extended at the normal rate.
a    - weight of normal final rate
b    - weight of preferential final rate
2.        In order to reflect the emphasis placed on SHE financing under
the project yet set a rate close to the normal lending rate as credit will
be available to larger enterprises as well, (a) and (b) are Initially
proposed to be set respectively at 2 and 1, but could be adjusted after
consultation with IDA. Moreover, since MTEN and MTEP are freely set-up by
financial intermediaries within ranges fixed by the Central Bank, the value
to be used in the computation is proposed arbitrarily to be the arithmetic
mean of the respective ranges (mw + max).
2
Under current conditions, TEP and TEN are respectively 6 percent and
8.5 percent and MMEP and MTEN 2 percent and 2.5 percent. With the proposed



- 87 -
Annex 3-9
Pane 2 of 2
veighta given to (a) and (b), the final rate Ts equals 10 percent before
TPS (11 percent including TPS).
As indicated In para. 3.11, the adjusted rate could only apply to
now subloans. However a clause for the revision of rates on outstanding
loans might be proposed.
3.        In turn, the spread of the financial intermediaries would need to
be automatically adjusted in case of an adjustment of the reference rates.
WAPID
March 1987



- 88 -
Annex 3-10
Page 1 of 2
TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT'
PILOT MUTUAL GUARANTEE SCHEME
1.  Background
1.        Based on the conclusions and recommendations of the study on the
SME promotion support system (project file document no. B5), a specific
proposal was made for the introduction under the project of mutual
guarantee unions (Socift6s de Cautionnement Mutuel - SCM) aimed at
facilitating term lending to Togolese enterprises by conventional financial
intermediaries (commercial banks). SCMs 1/ , which were introduced more
than a century,ago in Germany (Raiffeisen banks), have since then been
extensively developped throughout the world. Yet in Western Africa it is
only lately that their introduction is being contemplated as an attempt to
address the issue of the high risk associated with SME financing and banks'
aversion to this type of term lending.
2.        As a follow-up to the pre-feasibility study, an action program
will be prepared by a consultant (tentatively in March-April 1987) for the
establishment of the two pilot schemes identified by the study, one for
SME8 (SOCAPMET) and one for artisans (SOCAMAT).
2.  Highlights of the scheme
3.        Guarantee extended.  The SCM will guarantee up to two-thirds of a
loan extended to an enterprise by a bank. The bank will be able to call on
the SCM guarantee three months after the date of the first repayment
default by a borrower, provided a judicial action has been undertaken.
Collateral provided by the borrower (mortgages, joint registration, etc.)
will be requested jointly.in favor of the bank and of the SCM, with the
bank's rights being ranked first.
4.        Legal Status.  The SCM will be established as a mutual guarantee
association, according to the terms of the Togolese Commercial Law
governing such institutions. It will have a variable equity and will be
administered by a Board of Directors appointed by the members. Draft
stitutes have been prepared.
5.        Financing.  Each SCM will receive a budgetary allocation of
CFAF 50 million from the Government, which will constitute its initial
guarantee fund. Each SCM member will subscribe to the capital of the SCM
by the purchase of at least one share (or for an amount equivalent to
1 percent. of the guarantee extended if exceeding CFAF 4 million. Borrowers
1/  A union of professionals - usually belonging to the same professional
activity - jointly guaranteeing a loan extended to one of them.



- 89 -
Annex 3-10
Page 2 of 2
will have to deposit up-front the equivalent of 4 percent of the amount
guaranteed, 1 percent constituting a non-recoverable contribution to the
SCM guarantee fund and the balance being recoverable upon repayment of the
loan. Other revenues of the SCM will be constituted by the financial
revenues of the funds managed, and by a combination of (i) one point added
tc the final lending rate to the borrower; and (ii) two percentage points
out of the bank margin (repaid by the bank to the SCM from the borrower's
repayments) as a,counterpart to the reduction of its own exposure to the
lending risk.
6.        Members' contributionis and other resources have been budgeted in
such a way as to ensure the financial sustainability of these institutions.
Howce-er, this sustainability, and hence the credioility of the system,
would no longer be ensured if the recovery ratio was to drop below the
budgeted level of 70 percent.  In order to prevent such a risk a counter
guarantee arrangement will be put in effect to protect the initial capital
endowment under which aidditional contributions will be made from the
Guarantee Fund managed by SNI whenever the net worth of the SCM drops below
a certain predetermined level. This arrangement will be monitored by a
special Committee composed of representatives of the Administration, the
'banks and SCM boards 2/ .
7.        Administration of Current Operations.  Current operations of both
SCMs will be executed by the same technical team composed of a manager, two
accountants and two administrative staff. Initial operating costs
(excluding technical assistance) would amouint to about CFAF 16 million per
annum.
3.   Technical Assistance
8.        In order to assist in the setting up of these two pilot SCMs, and
as the concept is extremely new in the region, technical assistance will be
needed in the early years to help in establishing the two SCMs and in
providing back-up for its operations in subsequent years. Provision for
the financing of a resident adviser (two years) is proposed to be funded
under the project. This expert would in principle be seconded by a
financial institution involved in mutual guarantee schemes/credit and
qhould have substantial experience of banking in ALrica (preferably in
credit activities). Detailed terms of reference will be prepared by the
consul¶ant together with, the action program (para. 2).
WAPID
March 1987
2/  At a later stage, when the SCM network is sufficiently developed,
cross guarantee arrangements would be introduced between SCMs.



TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Debted Iiplernentafton Schedule
coundoYar YoI41
FAcd_________ _ _ Y OM         Pil  .                          -  - 4-9  f          4 S 3
_1       2131T4 1 2 3 4  1 2 i 3I 411234i12    4 4  21314112 314  1 2 3 4
d              T~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -         T aH -   _ _ _ ____a                   _ _-
Rev i? %on ot kw_stment codO
aIt%met a f netment
C  k1   e                               vi mum I*-
Olo fddtPolion o1 TA
TA tA io Mg
EstabU*TIshe Of
~mdud ftmod                                  i-                        n-     -rn v                
Olsbufsemernt of Uijds-                               r    nr       iUv                              
miao -*Wed IBM"
Roasflystu*l             Reciultient of TA
Op~eorttonr                               f i~e tato  td  Provision of T A
Marct, 1987                                                                                       Vnd Oank-31241



- 91 -
Annex 3-12
Page 1 of 2
TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Estimated Costs a/
Local       Foreign        Total          % of
-       (U--(US$ million)…-------    base cost
1. Investment support
structure
CTI                          0.35          0.55         0.90            4.90
FP?S                         0.50            -          0.50            2.70
Enterprise Assistance
Unit (DIVA)                0.25          0.40         0.65            3.50
2. Privatization program
Advisory services to MSE    0.35           0.70         1.05            5.70
Mutual Investment Fund       0.30          0.15         0.45             2.40
3.  Microenterprise scheme  0.40           0.30         0.70            3.80
4. Line of credit/
mutual guarantee
scheme
Line of credit               4.50          9.00        13.50           73.00
Project economic analysis   0.05           0.10         0.15            0.80
Mutual Guarantee Scheme      0.30          0.30         0.60             3.20
7.00         11.50        18.50          100.00
(a) net of tax and duties



- 92 -
Annex 3-12
Pagp 2 c  2
TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING (continued)
Financing Plan
Local       Foreign        Total           % of
--…--(US$ million)--------             base cost
1.  IDA                        -           11.50       11.50            62.20
-          11.50        11.50            62.20
2. Government
FPPS                         0.50
Mutual Guarantee Scheme      0.30
Institutional support,
of which:
Project Economic
Analysis               0.05
MSE                      0.35
Microenterprise          0.40
1.60            -          1.60             8.60
3. Private sector
Equity contribution          4.50                                      (24.30)
in subprojects
Institutional support,
of which:
CTI                      0.35
DIVA                     0.25
Mutual Investment Fund  0.30
5.40            -          5.40            29.20
TOTAL                      7.00          11.50       18.50           100.00
TOTAL                      7.00          11.50       18.50           100.00
WAPID
March 1987



- 93 -                  Anoex 3-13
PWA?3 rHOMM DUVUU MM
DOSW~       M  9     SRwUSNWtM .1
Quarter tdlq                             Quarterly               cuuatlv."
____________Diatreot                                  Dteburuamta
IT 9088 hI
Septeufer 30, 1987
December 31, 1987                        0.60                     0.60
ertck 31, 1908                           0.10                     0.70
June 30, 1980                            0.10                     0.50
if 1909
8etibr 30, !9"                           0.10                     0.90
Decmbr 31, 19U                           0.10                      1.00
Merch 31, 199"                           0.10                      1.10
Jun 30, 1989                             0.10                      1.20
If v9r
S.pwu*er 30, 196                         0.40                     1.60
DeeAdr 31, 1989                          0.40                     2.00
mock 31, it99                            0.40                     2.40
iuac 30, 1990                            0.40                     2.50
IT 1"1
SeptMer 30. 1990                         0.40                     3.20
D*eebe 31, 1990                         0.40                     3.60
mtrcl  3t, 19"1                          040                      4.00
J_n 30. 1"1                              0.40                     4.40
it 1m
September 30, 1991                       0.40                     4.50
D_embr 31, 1991                          0.55                     3.33
Meck 31, 192                             0.35                     S.90
J-e 30, 1"2                              0.40                     6.30
IT 193
September 30, 1"2                        0.40                     6.70
vic.me 3t1, 1992                         0.40                     7.10
Mersk 31, 193                            0.40                     7.80
.7wa 30, 1"3                             0.40                     7.90
if 1994
September 30, 193                        0.40                     0.30
December 31, 19,'3                       0.33                     5.63
Mrh 31, 1994                             0.35                     9.00
Ju" 30, 199                              0.30                     9.30
IT tm
Sepember 30, 1994                        0.30                     9.60
Dceamber ir, 1994                        0.25                     9.85
Nat"c 31, 1995                           0.25                     10.10
Juno  30, 1995                           0.20                     10.30
IT 1996
Sptesier 30, 199                         0.20                     10.50
December 31, 1995                        0.20                     10.70
March 31, 1996                           0.15                     10. 5
Jun  30, 1996                            0.15                     11.00
FT 1997
September 30, 1996                       0.15                     11.15
Decemeer 31, 1996                        0.13                     11 30
Merch 31, 1997                           0.10                     11.40
Jun  30, 1997                            0.10                     11.50
*/ Btsed on diabu rseemtu profiles Retion-tde
l/ Include  repaynat of PIP for the first year
WAPID, March 1987



- 94 -
Annex 4-
TOGO
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
A.1 Les PME au Togo - FRIDA - avril 1982
A.2 Diagnostic des Entreprises Agro-alimentaires et Programme de
Developpement (2 volumes), UNIDO, novembre 1986
A.3 Diagnostic des Entreprises Industrielles (autres qu'Agro-alimentalres)
et des Structures de Maintenance, UNIDO, juillet 1986
A.4  Togo, Private Sector Review, DFC, June 1985
A.5 Conference de Bailleurs de Fonds pour le Developpement du Togo
(Vol. I), Ministere du Plan et de l'Industrie, juin 1985
A.6 Rapport Annuel de la Commission de Contro^le des Banques et
Etablissements Financiers (1984-1985)
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1 Incentive Policies and Constraints in the Industrial Sector in Togo,
CDT, November 1986
B.2 Effective Protection and Domestic Resource Costs in Togo, CDT,
September 1986
B.3 Potential d'Exportation du Secteur Industriel et Dispositions
Institutionnelles ou Operationelles de Promotion du Commerce
Ext6rieur Relatif au Togo, CNUCED, d6cembre 1977
B.4 Promotion de l'Investissement au Togo, Amsalem, aoflt 1984
B.5 Etude pour la Mise en Place d'un Systeme d'Appui aux Petites et
Moyennes Entreprises Togolaises, SODI, juin 1986
B.6 Chambre de Commerce, d'Agriculture et d'Industrie du Togo (2 volumes),
ORGARIS, fevrier 1986
B.7 Etude pour la Mise en Place de Societes de Caution Mutuelle au Togo,
SODI, juin 1986
B.8 Promotion de l'Artisanat au Togo, CEPOGI, novembre 1977
B.9  Mission devolue au Ministare des Societes d'Etat dans le Cadre du
Programme d'Ajustement Structurel adopt6 par le Gouvernement
Togolais, Ministere des Sociftis d'Etat, novembre 1985
C.   Selected Working Papers
C.1 Togo Industrial Sector Strategy Paper, WAPID, August 1984
C.2  Import Taxation and Industrial Taxation in Togo, WA2DD,
October 1986



MAP SECTION



,t  .....ZA -,  , IBRD 141?8Rg
FASO       MAURITANIA~~~~4~ IGRI
| r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
8    vt;2~A    ! ~O
10                                N09 +
r  c  E N-?               L Tchomb\
TOGO          11~    So   obouov   
TRANSPORTATION
POPULATION DENSITY    ,l
1975 POPULATION DENSITY BY REGION
PERSONS PER Km'
20r - 40.5               ' P.l   A                            j
40.5 -60.5             §§'>                      >*
_-- 00 #I Te Y
MAIN ROADS ;_ tlpe{
-  R~EGIONAL BOUNDARIES           j                   ' 
--INTERNTIONAL 80UNDARIES    t$                               2
Tte V&Vl &V* 0  SOfaR 4.SWy
I        OC - The W                                                         , 
FEBRUAR~Y 19B7



