Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1843 TO
             (Private Enterprise Development Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated March 30, 1988
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March 30, 1988, between the REPUBLIC OF TOGO
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  by Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into between
the Borrower  and  Participating  Banks,  certain  proceeds of the
Credit will be onlent  to  said  Participating Banks, on the terms
and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
     (C)  by Investment  Agreements  to  be  entered  into between
Participating Banks and  Investment  Enterprises, certain proceeds
of the Credit will  be  onlent  to  said Investment Enterprises to
finance Investment Projects, on the terms and conditions set forth
in said Investment Agreements;
     (D)  the  Association  has  received   from  the  Borrower  a
statement of private enterprise  development policy, dated June 1,
1987, describing  the  policies  and  measures  that  the Borrower
intends to implement to  strengthen the development of enterprises
Page  2
in the private sector; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth  in  Schedule 3 to this Agreement
(the General  Conditions)  constitute  an  integral  part  of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "BCEAO" means the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique
de l'Ouest;
     (b)  "CFAF" means  the  currency  of  the  Borrower and other
members of the West African Monetary Union;
     (c)  "Credit Guidelines" means  the  detailed circular issued
by the Borrower through BCEAO and satisfactory to the Association,
outlining the terms and  conditions  and  the appraisal format for
the use of the proceeds  of  the  Credit by Participating Banks in
the Borrower's territory;
     (d)  "Investment  Agreement"  means  an  agreement  between a
Participating Bank and  an  Investment  Enterprise  to make a Sub-
loan;
     (e)  "Participating  Bank"  means  a  bank,  established  and
operating in conformity  with  the  banking  laws of the Borrower,
which will enter or has  entered  into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
with the Borrower;
     (f)  "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by a Participating  Bank  to  an Investment Enterprise for an
Investment Project out of  the  equivalent  of the proceeds of the
Credit relent to a  Participating  Bank  under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
     (g)  "Investment Enterprise" means  an  enterprise to which a
Participating Bank proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
     (h)  "Investment  Project"   means   a  specific  development
project to be carried  out  by  an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
     (i)  "Protocol" means the agreement  between the Borrower and
BCEAO, referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
     (j)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the  Borrower  and  a Participating Bank pur-
suant to Section 3.02 (c)  of  this  Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time;
     (k)  "Special Accounts"  means  the  accounts  referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (l)  "CTI" means Centre Togolais  des Investisseurs, an asso-
ciation established under the laws  of the Borrower, to inform and
assist businessmen and investors operating in Togo;
Page  3
     (m)  "DIVA"  means  Division  d'Assistance  aux  Entreprises,
a  division  within  the  Chambre  de  Commerce,  d'Agriculture et
d'Industrie du Togo, responsible for assisting, small- and medium-
scale enterprises;
     (n)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of  letters  dated  July  31, 1986 and December 30,
1986, between the Borrower and the Association;
     (o)  "FPPS" means Fonds  de  Participation aux Prestations de
Services, a fund to be  established  by the Borrower in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and
     (p)  "SME" means small-  and  medium-scale enterprises, i.e.,
Investment Enterprises whose  total  gross fixed assets, including
the amount of the Investment Project to be undertaken by it, shall
not exceed three hundred million CFAF (CFAF 300,000,000).
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, an  amount  in various currencies equiva-
lent to nine million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for:  (i)  amounts paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by a Participating
Bank on account of  withdrawals  made  by an Investment Enterprise
under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Investment Project  in respect of which the with-
drawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures
made (or, if  the  Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Part A.2 and Part B of the  Project  and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the  purposes of Part A and Part
B of the  Project,  respectively,  open  and  maintain in CFAF two
separate  special  accounts   (Special   Account   A  and  Special
Account B) in BCEAO  on  terms  and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special
Accounts shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to the Association the  amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount  of  the  Project  Preparation  Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1997, or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment  charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
Page  4
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as  may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on  each  May  15 and November 15,
commencing November  15,  1997,  and  ending  May  15,  2027. Each
installment to and including  the  installment  payable on May 15,
2007, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association after due considera-
tion by them of the  development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment  of  installments under paragraph (a) above
by requiring the Borrower to  repay  twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until  the  principal amount of the Credit
shall have been  repaid.  If  so  requested  by  the Borrower, the
Association may revise such  modification  to  include, in lieu of
some or all of the  increase  in the amounts of such installments,
the  payment  of  interest  at  an  annual  rate  agreed  with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the abovementioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the French Republic is hereby
specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.02  of  the  General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall carry  out  the  Project  through its Ministry of
Planning  and  Mining,  in  cooperation  with  said  Ministry, the
Ministry of Economy and Finance,  and the Ministry of Industry and
State Enterprises, with due  diligence  and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate  financial,  banking,  business and trade
practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. In order to  carry  out  Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall enter into a Protocol with BCEAO, acceptable to
the Association, pursuant to which  BCEAO shall undertake to fully
Page  5
assist the Borrower in the carrying  out  of Part A of the Project
in accordance with the  provisions  of said Protocol. The Protocol
shall further provide that BCEAO shall on behalf of the Borrower:
     (a)  enter into Subsidiary Loan  Agreements acceptable to the
Association with Participating Banks;
     (b)  cause  Participating  Banks  to  enter  into  Investment
Agreements with Investment Enterprises, acceptable to the Borrower
and the Association, in accordance with the criteria and the terms
and conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  ensure that a Sub-loan will be made on terms whereby the
Borrower shall obtain, through an Investment Agreement or by other
appropriate legal means, rights  adequate to protect the interests
of the Borrower  and  the  Association,  including  the rights set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  shall:  (a)  duly perform all its
obligations under  the  Protocol  and  Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
Except as  the  Association  shall  otherwise  agree, the Borrower
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending,  abrogating,  assigning  or  waiving  the Protocol or
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof; and
     (b)  exercise  its  rights  in  relation  to  each Investment
Project in such manner  as  to:  (i)  protect the interests of the
Borrower and the  Association;  (ii)  comply  with its obligations
under this  Agreement;  and  (iii)  achieve  the  purposes  of the
Project.
     Section 3.04. (a) When presenting  a Sub-loan to the Associa-
tion for approval, the  Borrower  shall furnish to the Association
an  application,  in  a  form  satisfactory  to  the  Association,
together with: (i) a description  of the Investment Enterprise and
an evaluation of the  Investment  Project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to  be  financed out of the Sub-loan,
taking into account the criteria set forth in Part A of Schedule 5
to this Agreement; (ii) the  proposed  terms and conditions of the
Sub-loan, including the schedule  of  amortization of the Sub-loan
and the terms and conditions set forth  in Part B of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement; and (iii)  such  other information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Except as the Borrower  and the Association shall other-
wise agree, applications and requests  made pursuant to the provi-
sions of paragraph (a) of  this  Section shall be presented to the
Association on or before June 30, 1996.
     Section 3.05. (a) In order  to coordinate the carrying out of
Part B of the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall, within its Ministry
responsible for Planning  and  Mining,  appoint,  by September 30,
1987, and thereafter maintain  as  Project Coordinator, a Togolese
national with qualifications and experience and with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.
     (b)  Except as the  Association  shall otherwise agree, goods
required for Part B of the  Project  and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit  shall  be procured under contracts awarded
after price quotations  solicited  from  at  least three reputable
suppliers.
     Section 3.06. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ banking, management, finan-
cial and marketing  consultants  whose qualifications, experience,
and terms and conditions  of  employment  shall be satisfactory to
the Association. Such consultants  shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures,  satisfactory  to the Bank, on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency", published by
the Bank in August 1981.
Page  6
     Section 3.07. The Borrower  shall  furnish to the Association
not later than March 1 of each year in which Part A of the Project
is executed, the final  year-end audited accounts of Participating
Banks as usually required by BCEAO.
     Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
     (a) by  December  31,  1987  submit  to  the  Association the
results and recommendations  of  the  feasibility studies required
for carrying out Parts B.3 (a), (b) and (c) of the Project;
     (b) implement the  recommendations  of  said  studies as they
shall have been agreed upon with the Association: (i) by April 30,
1988 for Parts  B.3  (a)  and  (b)  of  the  Project;  and (ii) by
November 30, 1988 for Part B.3 (c) of the Project; and
     (c) assess the  current  Investment  Code  and the charter of
Enterprises, inter alia, with respect to: (i) the accessibility of
the benefits of these  laws  to non-capital intensive enterprises;
(ii) the conditions required  for  qualified enterprises to accede
to the benefits of regime  B;  (iii)  the formula to determine the
value added to result from  the operations of enterprises benefit-
ing from the Investment  Code;  (iv)  the system for granting duty
exemption for imports of inputs  and equipment; and (v) the system
to monitor  the  execution  of  their  obligations  by enterprises
benefiting from  the  Investment  Code  regime.  To  this end, the
Borrower shall enact, by December 31, 1988 any proposed amendments
as said draft  amendments  shall  have  been  agreed upon with the
Association.
     Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  (i)  By  March  31,  1988,  abolish  the  present export
licensing system for  industrial  products;  (ii)  by December 31,
1987,  develop,  in  consultation  with  the  Association,  a  new
information system to collect  and record statistical data related
to industrial  product  exports;  and  (iii)  by  March  31, 1988,
implement said system in  accordance  with a timetable agreed upon
with the Association.
     (b)  (i) By  December  31,  1987,  review  the present system
regulating the establishment  of  new  enterprises  with a view to
abolishing the renewal of  establishment licenses and consider all
appropriate means to replace  the enterprise establishment licens-
ing  procedures  with  a  straightforward  enterprise registration
system; and  (ii)  devise  an  appropriate  system  to monitor the
execution of their tax  liabilities  by all enterprises registered
to do business in Togo.
     (c)  by March 31, 1988,  implement  the results of the review
referred to in paragraph (b) above  as they shall have been agreed
upon with the Association.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate  accounts,  adequate to reflect in
accordance  with  sound   accounting  practices,  the  operations,
resources and expenditures in respect  of  the Project and of each
Investment Project (including  its  cost  and  the  benefits to be
derived from it).
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the accounts and financial statements referred
               to in paragraph (a)  of this Section, including the
               Special Accounts for  each  fiscal year, audited in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
Page  7
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than five months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
               and in such  detail  as  the Association shall have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said accounts and  the audit thereof and
               said records as the  Association shall from time to
               time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
        (i)    maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
       (ii)    ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made;
      (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
       (iv)    ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section, and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether the  statements  of  expenditures submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with procedures
               and internal  controls  involved  in their prepara-
               tion, can be  relied  upon  to  support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  BCEAO shall have failed  to  perform  any of its obliga-
tions under the Protocol;
     (b)  as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall  make  it improbable that BCEAO will
be able to perform its obligations under the Protocol;
     (c)  the Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of  BCEAO,  CTI  or  DIVA  or  for  the  suspension  of their
operations;
     (d)  the Credit Guidelines  shall  have  been amended without
prior approval by the Association; and
     (e)  FPPS shall have been  dismantled or the arrangements for
its operations amended without prior approval by the Association.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
Page  8
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the events specified in  paragraphs  (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  the Protocol has been  signed  by the Borrower and BCEAO
in accordance with Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
     (b)  an agreement satisfactory  to  the  Association has been
signed by the Borrower  and  the Chambre de Commerce d'Agriculture
et d'Industrie du Togo for  the  carrying  out  of Part B.2 of the
Project;
     (c)  the Credit Guidelines have been issued;
     (d)  FPPS has been established  in accordance with the provi-
sions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
     (e)  CTI has become operational; and
     (f)  a resident adviser to the Ministry of Industry and State
Enterprises has taken up his functions.
     Section 6.02. The date  one  hundred  twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  the Borrower responsible for
Economy  and  Finance  is  designated  as  representative  of  the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
           Ministry of Economy and Finance
           P.O. Box 387
           Lome
           Republic of Togo
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                MINFIE TO                      5286
     For the Association:
           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
Page  9
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                        By /s/ Ellom-Kodjo Schuppius
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Goods and Services                          70%
     for Investment
     Projects:
     (a)   SME                    2,350,000
     (b)   other enter-           4,700,000
           prises
(2)  Consultants'                    80,000      100%
     services and
     training under
     Part A.2 of
     the Project
(3)  Equipment,                                  100%
     furniture and
     consultants'
     services for:
     (a) Part B.1 of                250,000
         the Project
     (b) Part B.2 (a)               310,000
         of the Project
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated           % of
Page  10
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category                SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4)  Consultants'                                100%
     services:
     (a)   for Part                 230,000
           B.3 (a) of
           the Project
     (b)   for Part B.3 (b)         230,000
           of the Project
     (c)   for Part B.3 (c)         120,000
           of the Project
     (d)   for Part B.4             250,000
           of the Project
(5)  Project Preparation            430,000      Amount due
     Advance                                     pursuant to
                                                 Section 2.02
                                                 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(6)  Unallocated                     50,000
                                  _________
          TOTAL                   9,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this  Schedule, the term "free-limit Sub-
loan" means a Sub-loan for  an  Investment Project in an amount to
be financed under the Credit which, together with any other amount
or amounts previously  financed  for  the  same Investment Project
under the Development Credit  Agreement  and not repaid, shall not
exceed in the aggregate the  equivalent of $200,000, the foregoing
amount being subject to change from  time to time as determined by
the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
     (a)  in respect of  payments  made  for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement;
     (b)  in respect of a Sub-loan under Category (1) unless:
          (A)  the Association  has  approved  the Subsidiary Loan
               Agreement pursuant to  which the Participating Bank
               has made said Sub-loan;
          (B)  said Sub-loan has been  made in accordance with the
               procedures and on the terms  and  conditions    set
               forth  or  referred  to   in  Schedule  5  to  this
               Agreement;
          (C)  the  Association   has   approved   the  Investment
               Agreement pursuant to which  said Sub-loan is made;
               and
          (D)  the Sub-loan  qualifies  as  a  free-limit Sub-loan
               for which  the  Association  shall  have authorized
               withdrawals from the Credit  Account or payment out
               of the Special Account A.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
Page  11
     The objectives of the  Project  are  to assist the Borrower's
efforts to: (i) promote economic growth and reduce unemployment by
providing financial means  to  expand  private enterprises through
restructuring or rehabilitation  of  such existing enterprises and
creation of new ones; and (ii)  reduce the role of the Borrower in
productive sectors.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Assistance to Enterprises
1.   Financing  of  Investment  Projects  to  be  carried  out  by
Investment Enterprises through the intermediation of Participating
Banks.
2.   Training   of   BCEAO's   and   Participating   Banks'  staff
responsible for appraising Investment Projects.
Part B:   Institutional Building
1.   Establishment of the  Centre  Togolais  des Investisseurs and
acquisition of furniture, office  equipment and supplies, required
to strengthen CTI's capability  to collect and disseminate project
concepts; and assistance  and  guidance  to potential investors in
the preparation of Investment Projects.
2.   (a)  Setting  up  adequate  facilities  for  DIVA  to provide
small- and  medium-scale  enterprises with adequate counselling to
enable them to improve the management of their businesses through,
inter alia, provision of legal  information and training in fields
such  as  marketing,  accounting,  financial  and  human resources
management; and (b) acquisition  of  office equipment and supplies
required for DIVA.
3.   Development and implementation of pilot schemes to:
     (a)  facilitate small-  and  medium-scale enterprises' access
to institutional credit  through  establishment  and management of
two experimental mutual guarantee associations;
     (b)  provide  artisanal  enterprises   with  credit  services
tailored to their specific situation; and
     (c)  encourage portfolio investments  by Togolese individuals
and enterprises through establishment  and  management of a mutual
investment fund.
4.   Strengthening the capability of  the Ministry of Industry and
State Enterprises to update  the Borrower's privatization program,
review  diagnostic  studies  for  enterprises  to  be  privatized,
prepare  the  required  dossiers,   seek  partners  and  negotiate
privatization arrangements with them  and monitor the execution of
the privatization program and promotion activities for the private
industrial and artisanal sector.
5.   Establishment and  management  of  FPPS  to  assist potential
investors to defray the  costs  associated with the preparation of
Investment Projects.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Modifications of the General Conditions
     For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Page  12
Conditions are modified as follows:
     (1)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (2)  The words "or for  Investment  Projects" are added after
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
     (3)  Section 6.03 is  deleted  and  replaced by the following
new Section:
                "Section 6.03.  Cancellation  by  the Association.
          If: (a) the right  of  the  Borrower to make withdrawals
          from the Credit Account  shall  have been suspended with
          respect to any  amount  of  the  Credit for a continuous
          period of thirty days; or  (b)  by the date specified in
          Section 3.04 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement, no
          applications or requests  permitted  under paragraph (a)
          of such Section shall have been received by the Associa-
          tion, in respect of any portion of the Credit, or having
          been so received, shall have  been denied; or (c) at any
          time, the Association determines that the procurement of
          any item is inconsistent  with  the procedures set forth
          or referred to in  the  Development Credit Agreement and
          establishes the  amount  of  expenditures  in respect of
          such item which would  otherwise  have been eligible for
          financing out of  the  proceeds  of  the  Credit; or (d)
          after the Closing Date,  an  amount  of the Credit shall
          remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Associa-
          tion may, by  notice  to  the    Borrower, terminate the
          right to request such  approvals  or requests or to make
          withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the case may be,
          with respect to such  amount  or  portion of the Credit.
          Upon the giving of such notice such amount or portion of
          the Credit shall be cancelled."
                            SCHEDULE 4
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories (1) and
(2) in respect of Special Account A and Categories (3) through (5)
in respect of Special Account  B  set  forth in the table in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Part A and Part B of the Project, respectively, and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the  Credit  allocated from time to time to
the eligible  Categories  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to SDR 400,000 in respect of Special Account A, and an amount
equivalent to SDR 80,000  in  respect  of  Special Account B to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account  and deposited into the relevant
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Accounts  shall  be  made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Accounts may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
Page  13
the relevant  Authorized  Allocation,  the  Association  shall, on
behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Credit Account and
deposit into the relevant  Special  Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Accounts at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into  the  relevant  Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be
required to replenish  the  relevant  Special Account with amounts
not exceeding the  amount  of  payments  made  out of the relevant
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Association  from the Credit Account under the
respective eligible Categories  and  in  the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Accounts for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request,  showing  that  such   payment   was  made  for  eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  relevant Special Account
shall be made  by  the  Association  when  either of the following
situations first arises:
        (i)    the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
       (ii)    the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to  the  eligible  Categories  for  Part A or
               Part B of  the  Project,  minus  the  amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
               Conditions with  respect  to  Part  A  or  B of the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the relevant Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligi-
ble Categories for Part A  or  B  of the Project shall follow such
procedures as  the  Association  shall  specify  by  notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit  in the relevant Special Account
as of the date of such  notice will be utilized in making payments
for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of any  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
relevant Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an  amount  equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified. No
further deposit  by  the  Association  into  the  relevant Special
Account shall be made until the  Borrower has made such deposit or
refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
Page  14
that any amount outstanding  in  any  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
                            SCHEDULE 5
Part A:   Eligibility  Criteria  for  Investment  Enterprises  and
          Investment Projects
     An existing Togolese  Investment  Enterprise will be eligible
for a Sub-loan provided:
     1.   it is operating in any one sector other than trade, real
          estate or primary agriculture;
     2.   it meets the criteria  of creditworthiness set forth for
          the Project;
     3.   it demonstrates that the  proposed Investment Project is
          both  technically   and   financially   sound  and  when
          implemented  is  likely   to   lead   to  efficient  and
          profitable  operations  including  a  financial  rate of
          return and an economic rate of return of at least 10% on
          its overall investments; such  rate  to be determined in
          accordance  with  a   methodology  satisfactory  to  the
          Association. For Investment  Projects  in  an amount not
          exceeding $200,000 equivalent,  only  the financial rate
          of return will need  to  be  calculated  and shall be at
          least 10%; and
     4.   its owners or managers  have  secured, or will secure at
          the same time as the  Sub-loan, any additional equity or
          short-term  debt  consolidation  or  both  that  may  be
          required, in the opinion  of  the Borrower and the Asso-
          ciation, to  strengthen  its  capital  base  in order to
          achieve:
          (a)  except as otherwise  agreed  with the Association a
               debt-equity ratio of:  (i)  not  more  than 4:1 for
               SMEs; and (ii)  not  more  than  3:1  for all other
               enterprises;
          (b)  a debt-servicing ratio of not less than 1:5; and
          (c)  a net worth and  cash  flow  equivalent to at least
               5:1 of the enterprise's annual turnover.
          Said ratios will be  calculated  taking into account the
          Investment Enterprise's total debt, including debt to be
          incurred  in  connection  with  the  proposed Investment
          Project.
Part B:   Terms and Conditions  to  be  Included  in an Investment
          Agreement Between a Participating Bank and an Investment
          Enterprise
     1.   A fixed interest rate  of  10%  per  annum or such other
          rate determined in  accordance  with arrangements satis-
          factory to the Association.
     2.   A maturity of not less than  two years and not more than
          15 years, including a grace  period of not less than one
          year and not more than three years.
     3.   Approximately equal semiannual, or more frequent, aggre-
          gate payments of principal and interest or approximately
          equal semiannual, or  more  frequent,  payments of prin-
          cipal.
Page  15
     4.   An upper limit to the Sub-loan of CFAF 350,000,000.
     5.   The Sub-loan shall not exceed  70%  of the total cost of
          the Investment Project.
     6.   The Investment Enterprise  shall  carry  out and operate
          the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency
          and in accordance  with  sound  technical, financial and          managerial 
standards and shall maintain adequate records
          and accounts.
     7.   (i) Goods and services  to  be  financed out of the pro-
          ceeds of the Sub-loan shall be purchased at a reasonable
          price,  after  price  quotations  from  at  least  three
          reliable suppliers  have  been  furnished, account being
          taken also of  other  relevant  factors  such as time of
          delivery, efficiency and  reliability  of the goods, and
          availability of maintenance  facilities  and spare parts
          therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality
          and the competence  of  the  parties rendering them; and
          (ii) such goods and  services  shall be used exclusively
          in the carrying out of the Investment Project.
     8.   The Association's right to inspect, by itself or jointly
          with  representatives  of   the  Participating  Bank  in
          question or of the Borrower, if the Association shall so
          request, such goods, sites,  works, plants and construc-
          tion included in  the  Investment Project, the operation
          thereof, and any relevant records and documents.
     9.   (i) The Investment Enterprise  shall  take out and main-
          tain with responsible  insurers  such insurance, against
          such risks and in  such  amounts, as shall be consistent
          with  sound  business  practice;  and  (ii)  without any
          limitation  upon  the  foregoing,  such  insurance shall
          cover hazards incident  to  the acquisition, transporta-
          tion and delivery of goods  financed out of the proceeds
          of the Sub-loan to the place of use or installation; any
          indemnity thereunder to  be  made  payable in a currency
          freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
          repair such goods.
     10.  Release of all  such  information  as  the Borrower, the
          Association, or the  Participating Bank shall reasonably
          request relating to the foregoing and to the administra-
          tion, operations and financial  condition of the Invest-
          ment Enterprise and to  the  benefits to be derived from
          the Investment Project.
     11.  The right of the Participating Bank to suspend or termi-
          nate the right of  the  Investment Enterprise to the use
          of the proceeds  of  the  Sub-loan  upon failure by such
          Investment Enterprise to  perform  its obligations under
          the Investment Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 6
I.   Fonds de Participation aux Prestations de Services (FPPS)
     1.   The Borrower  shall  establish  FPPS  under  by-laws and
          regulations satisfactory to the Association.
     2.   FPPS shall be managed  by  an accountant with qualifica-
          tions and experience satisfactory to the Association and
          under the direct supervision of CTI's Executive Manager.
     3.   The Borrower shall provide  FPPS  with an initial endow-
          ment  of  CFAF  150,000,000  and,  thereafter,  for each
          fiscal year,  make  budgetary  allocations sufficient to
          cover FPPS operating  costs.  Said  allocations shall be
Page  16
          made available to FPPS through quarterly deposits by the
          Borrower of the required  amounts  into an account to be
          opened and maintained in the  name  of FPPS in a commer-
          cial bank and  on  terms  and conditions satisfactory to
          the Association.
     4.   FPPS shall prepare a manual detailing the conditions and
          modalities (including  cost  recovery  mechanisms) under
          which its services shall be made available to interested
          enterprises and submit  said  manual  to the Association
          for its approval by September 30, 1987.
     5.   FPPS shall prepare a  draft  budget for each fiscal year
          and submit it by June 30 of each year to the Association
          for its review and comment.
II.  Mutual Guarantee Associations
     1.   The Borrower shall promptly  take  all steps required to
          promote the establishment of  MGAs  and provide each MGA
          with an initial  contribution  in an amount satisfactory
          to the Association to  be  allocated  by each MGA to its
          guarantee fund.
     2.   MGA membership  shall  be  opened  to  any individual or
          corporate entity in  accordance  with  the provisions of
          MGA by-laws which shall  be satisfactory to the Borrower
          and the Association.
     3.   MGA shall  issue  guarantees  only  to  members  in good
          standing and in  accordance  with  the provisions of its
          by-laws. Such by-laws  shall  provide,  inter alia, that
          guarantee  applicants  shall  pay  to  MGA  a  guarantee
          deposit in  an  amount  to  be  agreed  upon between the
          Borrower and the Association.
     4.   Any beneficiary of an MGA guarantee shall be required to
          pay to MGA a  credit  risk  management fee equivalent to
          one percent of the  amount  of  the credit guaranteed by
          MGA or such other percent acceptable to the Association,
          as determined from time to time by MGA.
     5.   MGA shall issue guarantees  only  in amounts which shall
          not exceed seventy percent  (70%)  of  the amount of the
          credit extended to any MGA member.
     6.   MGA guarantees shall be callable  only after a period of
          three months commencing as of  the date of any repayment
          default; upon any  payment  made  by  MGA  pursuant to a
          guarantee agreement, MGA  shall  be forthwith subrogated
          in  all  rights  held  by  the  payee  pursuant  to  the
          agreement by which  the  credit  was  made to the credit
          beneficiary.
     7.   Before  issuing  any  guarantee,  MGA  may  require  the
          guarantee  beneficiary  to   require   from  the  credit
          applicant any collateral or  any other security arrange-
          ment as MGA shall  have  deemed appropriate in the light
          of the  particular  financial  situation  of  any credit
          applicant concerned.
