Docuzmont of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
P1
k*pnr I No. P-jf4 162-uM
RHv.i3ORhr AtIl)  FWONMENPAT1 iN
[IF TrIf  PRESl)lEN'I'
[IF rtir:
INTErRNATrIONAl. J)ThvF,c1TMENT ASSqOCIATrON
'1'0 '111 1:
IExEtIi'rIvFJ DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSE'D JVEI.OPMENT CRE1IT OF  lSR 4.1  MIr.1.1)ON
A Ni)
A PROPOSED) SPE1CTA. FAC'I1T1Y  I-OR AFRIClA CREI)IT OF SDR 9.8 MILLIOrN
TO
TIIE  EPlIRI. lt (OF THF CAM RTA
FOR A
STR1XITI1RAI. AL I [!STMENT PROC RAM
August 4, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency lUnit            Palasi (D)
US$1.0          =       D 7.00
n 1.001                 U uS$0.143
) 1.00          =       100 Bututs
SYSTEM DF W1IGHTS AND MEASU1RES: MEIRIC
Metric                                             US Equivalent
I millimeter (mm)                                       0.04 inch
I meter (m)                                             3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)                                        0.62 miles (mi)
AB3REVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF       African Development Fund
ADP L1    Second Agricultural Development Project
FEf       European Economic Community
ERP       Economic Recoverv Program
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization (United Nations)
FPMC      FLsh Processing and Marketing Corporation
F.G.A.    African I)eve]opment Fund Unit of Account
(AIMTAN    Gambia Tannery
(;ARD     Cambia Agricultural Research and Diversification Project
GCDB      Gambia Commercial and Development Bank
GCII      Gambia Cooperative tnion
GPA       Gambia Port Authority
(;PMR     Gambia Produce Marketing Board
CPTC      'aambia Public Transport Corporation
CRTC      Gambia River Transport Company
C1'C      (;ambia Utilities Corporation
IBAS      Indigenous Business Advisory Service
IL(       International Labor Organization
MEPID     Mlinistry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development
MFT       Ministry of Finance and Trade
MVhC      Ministrv of Works and Communications
NIB       National Investment Board
dPA       Overseas Development Administration
PIPl      Public Investment Program
SAF       Special Adjustment Facility
SFA       Special Facilitv for Africa
SJF       Special Joint Financing
FISCAIL YEAR
Government:                                             July I-June 30
(;ambia Produce Marketing
Board (GPMB):                                         October I-September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Republic of The Gambia
Structural Adjustment Program
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:           Republic of The Gambia
Amount:             IDA Credit:        SDR 4.3 million (US$5.0 million
equiv.)
SFA Credit:        SDR 9.8 million (US$11.5 million
equiv.)
U.K. SJF Grant:   ITKE3.0 million (US$4.5 million
equiv.)
Terms:              IDA and AF Credits:  Standard
U.K. SJF Grant: Non-reimbursable contribution
Program
Description:        The proposed credits, grant and cofinancing would help
support the first phase (1985-1987) of the
medium-term Economic Recovery Program (ERP) initiated
by the Government in 1985.  This first phase consists
of a comprehensive set of policies and reforms aimed
at (1) elimination of exchange rate and pricing
distortions in order to create incentives for
increased production and exports and lay the
foundation for the longer-term growth of productive
sectors, and (ii) retrenchment of the public sector
in order to bring it into balance with the productive
capacity of the economy. Specifically, the ERP
program includes measures--many of which have already
been implemented --in the following areas: (i)
exchange rate and pricing policy, most notably the
introduction of a flexible exchange rate system; (ii)
agricultural pricing policy and institutional
reforms, including important steps to liberalize
input supply and output marketing; (iii) incentives
for other productive sectors, including the
elimination of export taxes and improved investment
incentives; (iv) far-rerching reforms of public
administration, including a significant retrenchment
of government employment; (v) public enterprise
reform, including a program for rationalization and
divestiture of government holdings; (vi)
reorientation of the public investment program to
emphasize rehabilitation, maintenance and high-return
productive investments, and to improve the processes
of investment selection and recurrent budgetting;
(vii) financial sector reforms; and (viii) sustained
pursuit of prudent fiscal. monetary and exchange rate
policies in order to help restore fiscal and
balance-of-payments equilibrium. An economic adviser
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



at the Presidency, currently being recruited under
the special technical assistance program for IDA-only
countries, would work closely with the Government's
ERP Steering Committee to oversee implementation of
the adjustment program.
Estimated
Dishursements:      The total financing package of US$30 million
equivalent would be made up of the proceeds of the
proposed credits and U.K. grant (US$21 million in
total), plus ADF cofinancing (US$9 million). The
funds would be disbursed in two tranches and would be
used exclusively for financing the foreign exchange
cost of eligible imports. The first tranche of US$17
million would be available for disbursement
immediately upon effectiveness of the credits and the
U.K. grant. Disbursement of the second tranche of
US$13 million would be contingent upon the Government
making significant and satisfactory progress in
implementing the structural adjustment program. It
is envisaged that release of the second tranche would
occur around April/May 1987 after a performance
review. Disbursement of the entire credit is
expected to be completed within 15 months of credit
effectiveness.
Staff
Appraisal Report: Not applicable.
!!M:                IBRD No. 11922 R3



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND
A PROPOSED SPECIAL AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
FOR A STRULCTUrRAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on n proposed
Development Credit of SDR 4.3 million (US$5 million equivalent) and a
proposed Special Facility for Africa (SFA) Credit of SDR 9.8 million
(US$11.5 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to the Republic of The
Gambia, to help support the Government's structural adjustment program. In
addition, I recommend that IDA administer a proposed Special Joint Finan-
cing non-reimbursable contribution of £3 million (about US$4.5 million
equivalent) by the United Kingdom.  In addition, there is the possibility
of a contribution of up to SDR 2.6 million (about US$3 million equivalent,
from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, which would offset part of the SFA
credit.    A  Development  Credit  of  F.U.A.  10  million  (approximately
US$9 million equivalent) would be made available by the African Development
Fund to cofinance the operation.
2.        Part I of this report reviews the characteristics, performance
and constraints of the economy. Part II outlines the Government's economic
recovery program, and Part III analyzes the expected economic and social
impact of the program.  Parts I%' and V describe IDA's role in the adjust-
ment process, the proposed operation, and other Bank Group operations in
The Gambia.
3.        A report entitled The Gambia: Development Issues and ?rospects
(5693-GM) was distributed to the Executive Directors on September 6, 1985.
Updated country data appear in Annex I.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. Structure and Characteristics
4.        The  Republic  of The Gambia,  with  an estimated population of
734,000 in 1985, is the smallest country on the African continent, occupy-
ing a narrow, 350 km long strip of land on both banks of the Gambia River.
The country, whose width does not exceed 50 km, is surrounded on three
sides by the Republic of Senegal.  It has no important mineral or other
natural resources, and the production base is, therefore, extremely
limited.   About two-thirds of the population  is engaged in agriculture
(subsistence farming, livestock raising and cultivation of groundnuts for
export). Manufacturing activity is limited, with the principal activities
being groundnut crushing, a few small bakeries, a brewery, a tannery,
brick, lime juice, soap, and plastics production. Fishing resources exist
but land-based processing is limlZed. The country is heavily dependent on



trade, importing abouit half of its food supplies, all of its fuel and
capita]  goodi and most  other manufactured  goods.  Exports  are hitghly
concentraLttd, wtith a  Lshigle commodity, groundnut products, accounting for
MS_-107 of Ll: Vi. u111t. (i domestic exports (as distinct from reexports).  The
rematning domestic exports are fish, hides and skins, cotton, and palm
kernels.
5.        Outslide  nf  agriculture,  the  most  important  features  of  The
Cambia's economy aire its rapidly growing tourism industry (tourist arrivals
lhave tripled since 1982 with the expansion of hotel capacity), nnd al well-
developed commercial sector whlich, for most of The Cambia's history, has
been invoilved in entrepot trade, or the transshipment of imported food and
consumer goods  t) other countries  in the region.   This reexport  trade
expanded rapidly 1in the 1970s, as The Gambia maintained its traditional
open-trade policy while neighboring countries increasingly resorted to high
tariffs and quotas to protect inefficient, import-substituting domestic
industries. Althoughi the bulk of reexports are unrecorded, it is estimated
that some 40%7 of The Gambia's total merchandise imports are reexported, and
that the gross value of reexports is substantially higher than The Gambia's
domestic exports.  Because of the large volume of reexport trade and the
fact that virtually nl] of the goods are sold for fully-convertible CFA
francs, The Gambia's net foreign exchange earnings (essentially traders'
margins and transport costs) from reexports have also become significant,
although much of this foreign exchange has remained outside the official
banking system.  Duties are paid on imports that are subsequently reex-
ported, however, and these constitute a very important share of total
government revenue.
6.        The Gambia's small size, substantial trade openness and heavy
dependence upon a single export crop make it an inherently vulnerable
economy, highly sensitive to shortfalls in agricultural production caused
by drought and to changes in the terms of trade.  Since 1975, the country
has experienced one of the lowest CDP growth rates (1.8% per annum) of any
country in Africa. The apparent acceleration of population growth over the
past decade (to 3.4% per year), means that per capita income in The Gambia
has declined by roughly 1.6% per year over the past decade. The estimated
per capita income of US$260 in 1984 places The Gambia among the most
impoverished countries in the world.  Wide differences in income between
rural and urban groups persist, however, with average incomes In the modern
urban sector, dominated by government wage earners, approximately four
times higher than average rural incomes. This differential partly explains
the very  rapid  (10% per year)  urban growth of the past decade.   The
political strength of the urban population is a factor in the structural
adjustment process, as urban groups must inevitably experience short-term
consumption cuts and shifts in Income distribution as a consequence of that
process.
B. Past Trends and Recent Economic Developments
7.        The Gambia's current  economic difficulties are the result of
developments concerning the balance of payments, on the one hand, and the
management of the public sector, on the other. Until the late 1970s, The
Gambia maintained broad balance of payments equilibrium in large part
thanks to substantial financial reserves built up by the Gambia Produce
Marketing Board  (GPMB) between  1960 and  1978.   At  the same time,  the
Government maintained a surplus on its current budget, which, along with



foreign grants mnd highily concessional ald, was used to finance a very
modest level of public [Investment.  Even when a more ambitious level of
investienllt Was Initiated uinider thce first five-year plan, 1975/76-t980/81,
public sector :;urpluses Initially financed an important share of expendi-
tures.
8.        Thle shift lii thie- public sector from a position of overall surplus
to significant  nud growing deficits beginntng In the late 1970s substan-
tially cxacerbuated the lnlherent tnt4tabiliry of thle Cambian economy.  The
public sector njo longer acte(d ais a buffer aganrst climatic  factors or
exogenous shocks hut,  Lnstead, became an ndditional source of disequl-
librium.  IPulic  sectnr  employment  and  development  expenditures  grew
rapidly and contrlbuted  to large Increases  in imports,  given the high
import  consumptIlon  of the  fast-growing urban  population,  and  the high
import component oif general government expenditures and development pro-
jects.   Heavy  external  borrowing  for  public  investments  swelled  The
Gambia's external debt from less than 25% of GDP tn 1975 to more than 200%
in 1985.   These factors created a "structural deficit" in Tle Gambia's
trade:  domestic exports, even in good yenrs, were increasingly unable to
generate foreign cx1ri'lo ..rr% I, ;     ct,J.r the cost of dnnestic imports
(principally fuel, foodstuffs, capital goods, and debt service).  At the
same time, declining world prices for groundnuts and the increase in world
oil prices combined to bring about a serious deterioration in The Gambia's
terms of trade. Tn 1982. these stood at one-third of the level attained in
the mid-1970s.
9.        These factors brought about a significant deterioration of the
current account  froni 1979 to 1983.   Yet severe adjustments that might
otherwise have been necessary were to some extent averted by a large
Increase  in external  assistance  to The Gambia  In  1980-81:   total net
resource inflows rose to roughly US$80 million a year, double the average
level of previous years and equivalent to 35-40% of The Gambia's GDP. As a
result of this assistance, about half of which consisted of grant aid, the
country was able not only to maintain total annual investment at close to
30Z of GDP but also to avoid a decline in consumption.
10.       Although capital inflows returned to more normal levels beginning
in 1982, consumption--particularly government consumption--proved difficult
to restrain.   The Government found it difficult to contain expansion of
government employment and remuneration levels. By 1983, cumulative balance
of payments disequilibria left the Central Bank increasingly unable to
guarantee the convertibility of national currency deposits into foreign
exchange; a rapid erosion of confidence in the banking system ensued and an
active parallel foreign exchange market emerged, through which most of the
earnings from the reexport trade transitted.  As a consequence of these
developments, arrears on official external payments accumulated rapidly.
11.       The  Gambia's  economic  situation worsened  sharply  in  1984/85.
Because of uneven rains, erratic input supply and unattractive official
prices, marketed groundnut production dropped from 93,000 tons in 1983/84



- 4 -
ro 49,0O() toll n 1n 1984/89, 1/  leading to a decline in real CDP of almost
4%, a  27%. declInev  In official exports,  and  a sizable  and unforeseen
fIinnciail. loss for thle CPMB.  At the same time, domestic demand pressures
intenslfIed,  it'e overall  fiscal  deficit  widened  tc  about  18%  of CDP
(excldinyg grants), and inflation accelerated to 22%, compared with 16% in
1983 /84.   W11t  rthe  sharp  decline  in  foreign  exchange  earnings  from
groundtiuit.s, Centrrl I Bank grosss officlal reserves were quickly exhausted and
Clie foreign eNchange situation became acute, leaving the Government unable
1.o mlect mnost n)I  Its official debt service obllgations.   As a result,
severail ol 'I'l  Cambla, 's major donors were forced to suspend disbursements
dIuiringw  1985.  'I'he country's Inability  to obtain  commercial credit for
petroleumg, rice nnd other basic imports led to recurrent and increasingly
Revere  shortages.   The  scope  of  the  parallel  foreign  exchange  market
conitinuiedi to expand, withi a widening differential between the official
exchainge r:ate of ) 5 = I 1.0 and the value of the dalasi on the parallel
umarket.
12.      'T'he severity of the economic situation during 1984/85 persuaded
the Government that fundamental changes in economic policy were required.
As discussed in the next section, in miid-1985 the Government sought assis-
tance from the World Hank and IMF in designing an economic recovery program
that was both more comprehensive and more radical than earlier efforts at
adjustment. As the cornerstone of the program, in January 1986 the Govern-
ment introduced a major reform of the exchange rate system, in moving from
a fixed peg to a floating rate (interbank market) system.
13.       During 1985/86, the impact of this and other policy adjustments
have begun to be felt. Thanks also to good rains, agricultural production,
especially food crops, has recovered strongly over the past year. Fishing
and tourism also appear to be undergoing significant expansion, and reex-
port activity has accelerated with the good harvests and expanded purchas-
ing power throughout the region. As a result, real GDP growth for 1985/86
is estimated on1 the order of 7%, producing the first positive per capita
income growth  in  three  vears  in The  Gambia.   Inflation,  however,  has
accelerated sharply, to an estimated rate of about 40% for the year.
14.        The  halance  of  payments  situation  continues  to be  severely
constrained. Officially marketed groundnut production remained low (about
50,000 tons), and the recent precipitous decline in world prices has
plunged expected groundnut export earnings for 1985/86 some 50% below the
already depressed 1984185 level. Although other domestic exports (fishing,
tourism) appear to be expanding, they are still relatively small.  In the
absence of any rescheduling, debt service due (including payments co the
IMF)  has  increased  further  to US$28 million--equal  to about  two times
projected domestic exports of goods and non-factor services in 1985186. as
1/   Officiallv marketed production, which has historically averaged about
80% of total production, fell to an estimated 60% of total production
in 1984/85 and 1985/86, due to a disparity in official prices between
The Gambia and Senegal.  This is discussed further in paras. 60 and
88.



- 9 -
comnpared  wltlh  about 50%  in  1984/85.   The  current  account  deficit  for
1985/86 has remained stable in dollar terms (US$36 million), largely as a
result of accelerated reexport activity, and has improved slightly as a
share ofi estimatetd CUP (217).  However, the dramatic decline in ner medium-
nnd long-term inflows associated with the suspension of disbursements by
several major donors hlas placed pressure on the overall bnlnce-of-pnyments
and resulted in a residual deficit   f about 11S$16 millIon for 1985186.  In
thte absence  of a  comprelu!nsive donor  nssistance  package and  debt  re-
schledtl ing. it Is ci fffcuilt to see how The CGambia can resolve Its problems
of external arrears and disrupted aid flows sufficiently to allow sustained
pursuit of its adjustment program  and the Investment necessary for future
growth .
C. Governmenit Adljustment Efforts
15.       Since  1980, the Governiment has made several attempts to adjust
the economy,  inclutding negotiation of two Stand-by arrangements with the
111F. The first of these was for SDR 16.9 million and covered calendar
1982.   It aimed  at  lowering  the public  sector deficit  and stimulating
production through higher producer prices for groundnuts and rice.   The
program produced mixed results. The fiscal deficit was reduced from 21% to
14% of- GDP, but this was entirely accomplished through increased revenues
and a drastic compression of expenditures on material and current supplies;
government wages and salaries actually increased by nearly (30%) under the
program.   Associated  with  the  higher  producer  prices,  groundnut  area
planted rose to the highest level ever in 1982 and marketed production
reached 130,000 tons.  Unfortunately, however, these results coincided with
a sharp decline in world groundnut prices, and little increase in total
export earnings took place.
16.       Continued balance of payments deterioration in 1983/84, a decline
in real GDP associated with poor rainfall and crop production, and an
increase In the fiscal deficit led the authorities to negotiate a further
Stand-by  arrangement  in  early  1984.   Policy  adjustments  under  the new
Stand-by program for SDR 12.8 million (covering the period April 1984-
July 1985) Included a 25% devaluation and upward adjustments in consumer
prices to reduce subsidies on rice, fertilizers and public transport.  On
the expenditure side, the Covernment adopted a hiring freeze except for
pressing emergencies, and limits on supplementary budgetary appropriations.
Monetary adjustments included increases in interest rates on deposits and
guidelines to limit commercial bank credit to the private sector. Although
the Government implemented the agreed prior actions, it was not able to
meet the June 1984 targets for reductions in external arrears and net
credit to the Government, the GPMB, and the private sector. Arrears to the
IMF also emerged towards the end of 1985 and, as a result, after one
disbursement of SDR 2.63 million in May 1984, the program lapsed and was
finally cancelled on April 22, 1985.
D. Long-Term Potential and Development Constraints
17.       The Gambia faces major development constraints  that are struc-
tural in nature and not amenable to rapid resolution. The first constraint
is the country's heavy reliance upon a single export commodity--groundnuts.
Although there are good prospects for development of the country's fishing,



- 6 -
toturtsm and resource-based manufacturing potential, achieving a significant
(liversificatlon of the country's fragile productive base will take years,
and groundnurs will remain the dominant export for the foreseeable future,
accounting for more than 70Z of domestic export receipts even in 1990.
Over the medium term, The Gambia's economic recovery will be made
considerably more difficult by unfavorable world price prospects for
groundnuts.   According  to the latest  projections,  groundnut prices may
dtc]ine by a furthier 5-10% In real terms by 1990, on top of the 40% real
decline experienced over the past year. From 1990 to 1995, however, a real
Increase  of about  15Z is forecast.   During  the rest  of this decnde,
therefore, sustained support from The Gambia's donors will be all the more
-Important.
JR.       A second fundamental constraint  is The Gambia's low level of
humanii resource development, reflected in an estimated 20Z literacy rate, a
secondary school enrollment of only about 16% of the school age population,
and a high incidence of chronic infectious diseases and seasonal malnutri-
tion, which undermine the overall productivity of the work force.  In
adldition,  the country's rate of population growth over the past decade
(3.4% per annum) is among the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa.  The Govern-
ment is aware of the development Lmplications of this growth, however, and
is one of the few in Africa with an open political commitment to population
policy and family planning.  With World Bank/ADF assistance, it is cur-
rently preparing a comprehensive population, health and nutrition project.
Inicreasing the long-term productive potential of the economy and raising
the welfare of the Cambian population will depend crucially upon the
Gnvernment's ability to invest adequately and efficiently in education and
health and family planning services, even during a period of severe public
expenditure constraints.
19.       A further long-term issue concerns The Gambia's political rela-
tions with Senegal.  An attempted coup in The Gambia in 1981 made it
necessary to invoke a mutual defense pact with Senegal for military assis-
tance.  in the aftermath, the two countries signed a far-reaching set of
protocols establishing the Senegambia Confederation and committing them to
expanded mutual defense and national security arrangements, establishment
of joint foreign policy organs, and eventual economic integration,
including adoption of a common currency and harmonization of tariffs and
import duties.  Two bilateral negotiating committees (one on customs, the
other on monetary issues) have been established to work out specific
proposals. While some progress has been made (most notably, agreement on a
establishment of a Senegal/Gambia free trade area as a first step towards
customs integration, it appears that formal integration of the two
economies to any significant degree will not be achieved for at least
several years.
20.       The Gambia's basic structural constraints have been exacerbated
by three policy failures in particular which underlie the economic deterio-
ration  experienced  since  1979.   Foremost  among  these  is  the dramatic
expansion of the public sector over the past decade--a major cause of
chronic  fiscal  imbalances.   Between  1976  and  1980,  the  civil  service
doubled in size and, largely as a result, total government expenditure
increased by more than 25% per year. In recent years, expenditure on civil
service wages and salaries has been almost twice as high as gross income to



- 7 -
grouncintit prodhucers, reflecting .a level of public sector employment seri-
ously out of line with the  long.-term potential of the productive  base.
Restoring a balance between tile overextended public sector and the produc-
tive, export-gener;itling :activItIes required to sustain it must be seen as
the startilg point for The Gamb ia s structural adjustment effort.
21.       Thel1  secoild critical problem  fIs the Iailure of successive publ Ic
lnvestmeIIt prograims to diversilly the productive hase aind place the ecnnomy
on a higher growth path.  lhe reasons for this tnclude heavy investments In
transport relative to other, directly prodiictive sectors; rapid expansion
of  Inlrnstructture  In  :ull  sectors,  straining  the  country's  absorptive
capacity; andl Inadequate attention to rime recurrent cost, import cost anld
debt service ImplI-cations oif investments and The Gambia's long-term capa3c-
ity to sutistain these.
22.       The  nccumiulated  external  debt  of  The  Gambia--a  third  major
problem--is now equivalent to about 20(1% of GDP.  Although more than 50% of
t[lis amount I- owed to multilateral orgnnizations and was borrowed on
concessionnli  ternms, debt service obligations on less concessional borrow-
ings from private creditors anid bilateral donors have built up rapidly over
the pnst  several  years.  An estimated US$6-8 million per year  In debt
relief could he obtained through rescheduling over the next five years, and
this clearly needls to be pursued as one element of a coordinated donor
assistance package.  Given the high proportion of The Gambia's debt that is
not reschedulable, however, it is equally clear that gross disbursements
from multilateral donors will have to expand significantly in coming years
In order to malntain the net flow of resources to the country.
PART T1 - THE GOVE.RNMENT'S ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM (ERP)
23.       During discussions of the draft Country Economic Memorandum with
Bank staff In June 1985, the Covernment was ,ersuaded that comprehensive
economic policy adjustments were necessary for The Cambia to achieve a
sustatnable recovery and reversal of the decade-long trend of declining per
capita income.  An Jnrerministerial task force was established to draft an
Economic Recovery lProgram (ERP).  Tn July 1985, an IMF mission visited The
Gambia for intensive discussion of the exchange system, pricing policies,
and fiscal, monetary and credit policy reforims required to promote economic
stabilization nnd recovery, and the program was elaborated further.
Following Cabiner adoption of the program, it was presented to a special
Donors' meeting on The Gambia held in London in September 1985, chaired by
the World Bank.  Donors strongly endorsed the program and several (notably
the U.K. and the African Development Bank) indicated their readiness to
help support implementation of the ERP through cofinancing of the proposed
IDA Structural Adjustmlent Credit.
24.       The  Economic  Recovery Program has  two  fundamental  objectives:
(i)  to  reverse  the  overextension  of  government  administration  and
parastatal activity In order to bring the public sector into balance with
the productive base of the economy, and (iI) to create favorable incentives
for private productive activity through the elimination of exchange rate
and pricing distortions, and selective other incentives.  With respect to



- 8 -
tihe lirst, the ERP and proposed SAI. foctun heavily oln a redefinition of the
role of the public sector in the economy andi Improvemcents In public sector
efficlenicy.  Under the program, the Government Is privatizing a numher of
government activities (particularly in the agricultural sector) that can be
more eflftclently hliandled by private jigents, pursuilg f public enterprise
dtIvestiture program. nnd impl]ement IMi a SiKgnif leant retrenchment of govern-
inertt etuployment. In  dd dition, tint' program lic 1eltides important mensures to
aiclileve grreter el i lcitievy in thn pubhlie nIector through-a changes In expendi-
ture policy, ttiprovements In the qut]lity and management of pub]ic invest-
nenitt, ntreamlininp and reforimi oi thie remiillng public enterprises,  and
Improvemeunti; In civili servicc personnel iiiiinwigenaLnt.
25.       Complementing thesc reformns; In the public sector, tile ERP in-
cludes important actions to improve the incentIves for private productive
activity, thus laying the foundation for the medium-terimi growth and diver-
sif-ication of the economy.   Key among these Is the exchange rate reforn
impleLmented Ln January 1986.  Othier elemenits include the preparation of a
revised investment code and more effictent administrative procedurcs,  a
major effort to rehabilitate the financial sector, and the elimination of
export diisincentives in the fishin1g sector.  Finally, significant producer
price increases under the ERP have greatly improved the incentives for
Gambian  farmers.   Together,  these  changes  are  expected  to  encourage
increased investment and entrepreneur-Lal activity In areas such as fishing,
tourism, agroprocessing and other resource-based manufacturing and, over
the next several years, to reverse The Gambia's decade-long trend of
declining per capita income and establish the basis for sustained, albeit
modest, growth.
:'6.       Notwithstanding  the  signitficance  of the economic adjustments
currently being undertaken,  the ERP/SAL program should be viewed as only
the beginning of a long-term effort to address The Gambia's structural
problems.  In an economy as resource-constrained as The Gambia, a supply
response to changed economic incentives is bound to take time.  This is
particularly true in agriculture, a sector which suffers from serious
institutional weaknesses and which has performed poorly in the past..
Consistent with this, the proposed SAL is envisaged as the first in a
series of policy-based operations in The Gambia and will also be
compLemented by continued efforts on our part to aid the Government in
addressing technical and policy issues In key sectors such as agriculture
through ongoing project lending.
27.       Over the past year, the Government's policy dialogue with the IMF
has expanded progressively and the Government has adopted a stabilization
program for FY86/87 following discussions with IMF staff. This program is
closely coordinated with and directly complements the ERP and SAL reforms.
In July, the Government arranged commercial brldge financing to clear its
arrears to the Fund (SDR 10.3 million as of end-June 1986), and immediately
thereafter concluded negotiation o' a Letter of Intent with the IMF which
could be supported by the use of Fund resources over the thirteen month
period  through  September  1987.  A Policy Framework Paper,  prepared in
collaboration with staff of the Bank and the IMF, has also been presented
to the Fund and Bank management, in conjunction with a request from the
Government for the use of Special Adjustment Facility (SAF) Resources. The
main features of the ERP are discussed below.



- 9
A. Public Sector Role and Efficiencv
I. PKfblic Enterprise Reform
28.       The parastatal sector In The Gambia conststs of 13 wholly-ownœd
non-fInancial enterprises (including the (PMB, public utilities, transpor.
and communications companIes), 5 wholly-owned financial enterprises, and
7 mixed enterprises wlth partial government ownership (mainly hotels).
Parastatal  performance  ir recent years has been poor, with accumulated
operating losses in a number of cases (CPMB, GtJC, GPTC, the Atlantic and
Senegambia Hotels) reaching serious proportions by 1985 and placing strains
on the financial system. As the Government's ability to provide operating
subsidies from the current budget has been limited, most enterprise defi-
cits have been financed by inadequate maintenance and depreciation, the
accumulation of paymients arrears, and commercial overdrafts, particularly
from the Government-owned Gambia Commercial and Development Bank (GCDB).
29.      lUnder the ERP, parastatal reform is a high Government prioiity,
and the performance of several enterprises (notably, the CPTC and CUC) has
begun to turn around through a combination of technical assistance, tariff
adjustments, and deliberate efforts to reduce government interference in
enterprise management.  The indcpendent government oversight agency, NIB,
is playing an important role in this process Lhrough its diagnostic studies
and recommendations on tariffs and management and accounting practices.
30.       The Government's reform strategy involves (1) rationalization of
the scope of the parapublic sector, and (ii) systematic efforts to improve
the perfon-" ze of remaining enterprises through the use of performance
contracts, technical assistance, tariff adjustments, settlement of inter-
locking arrears, etc. In this connection, the Government is strengthening
NIB's capacity to exercise oversight functions by making NIB representation
on parastatal governing Boards mandatory. Draft legislation providing for
this change will be submitted to Cabinet by December 31, 1986.
31.       Rationalization/Divestiture Policy.   Effective January 1, 1986,
the Government adopted a moratorium on the creation of new public enter-
prises or joint ventures with a Government equity participation of more
than 10%, except as agreed withi the Association-  It has also charged the
NIB with preparing a detailed divestiture plan for the sector by
December 31, 1986. The criteria for divestiture and a list of enterprises
to be considered for divestiture have been developed and discussed with the
Association.  For the enterprises identified, the NIB is cooperating witi
relevant ministries to conduct a valuation of the Government's holding,
identify policy and financial issues that must be resolved prior to sale
(including the portion of existing debts to be assumed by Government), and
identify  potential  buyers.   For  the  first phase  of  the program,  the
Government has identified divestiture of its holdings in the fisheries and
tourism  sectors  as  priorities.   For  the  second  phase,  the  NIB  has
identified  the  GPMB  (some operations),  Citroproducts,  GPTC  (urban  bus
service), and Camtours (tourist bus service) as potential candidates for
divestiture.   In addition,  it is considering options for private sector
participation in river transport and ferry operations.  Given the absence
of formal capital markets and the limited number of potential investors,
the  privatization  process  cannot  be  expected  to  proceed  rapidly;



- 10 -
nevertheless, the Government has :flready publicized the proposed sale of
one fishling company (the Seagtill Corporation) and has received numerous
expressions of interest and severa] firmii oFfers from Camblan businersmen.
3:,.      In  connection  with  its  parastara]  divestiture  srrategy,  the
Government has also reconsidered  thle status of the Fish Processing and
Marketinig Corporation (FPMC), .1 donor-financed new venture in the fishing
sector which had been proposed as a 100% government-owned corporntion.  As
discussedl further in para. 77, the Government has now agreed to try to
pr-Lvatize the company before it becomes operational.
33.       Performance Improvements  in Remaining Enterprises.  With World
Bank assistance, performance contracts for the three largest parastatals.
CPMB, CGK  and CPA, are currently being prepared and will be signed by
December 31, 1986. To ensure that enterprises have adequate autonomy, the
NIB is reviewing the legal framework governing each enterprise to establish
consistency, to the extent appropriate, with modern commercial company law.
particularly with regard to establishing clearly the duties and responsi-
bilitIes of Boards and reduclng the powers of parent ministries.  The NIB
will also review the composition of enterprise Boards and clarify proce-
dures governing the appointment of managing directors.  Finally, the NIB
will recommend appropriate legislative revisions to grant managers and
their Boards full autonomy in staffing decisions, salary structures and
bonuses.
34.       In the area ot tariffs, the Government's policy regarding enter-
prises not subject to market competition is to set tariffs to permit
financial self-sufficiency, assuming an appropriate level of operational
efficiency. The Government has approved a multi-year program of necessary
tariff adjustmentrj for the GUC and implemented major tariff adjustments in
recent  months  for  the  for  GPA  (port)  and  the  GPTC  (urban  bus).   In
addition, as indicated in the Letter of Development Policy, the Government
1s committed to regular tariff adjustments as needed to pass-through the
effects of changes in the exchange rate under the new interbank market
system.
35.       Finally, with the assistance of an TMF consultant, the Government
has established a timetable for the settlement of interlocking arrears
among public enterprises and with the Government before December 31, 1986.
The NIB is monitoring the progress of this operation.
2. Civil Service Retrenchment
36.       The Government has recognized that its effort to bring the size
and scope of the public sector into balance with the growth of productive
sectors must include a fundamental retrenchment of government employment.
From approximately 4,000 civil service posts and 2,000 temporary workers in
1975, government employment had swollen to an estimated 10,700 civil



- 11 -
service posts and about 5,000 temporary workers by 1985. 2/  The need to
accommodate Increasing expenditure on wages and salaries, moreover,
contributed to a sharp compression of outlays on maintenance and recurrent
supplies.  Grossly inadequate expenditures for current supplies have been
responsible for: (i) an evident decline in the productivity of workers
throughout the government, who are ill-equipped or even unable to pzrform
their ostensible functions;  (ii) substantial underutilization of new and
existing  infrastructure   (under-supplied  hospitals,  schools,  research
stations, etc.); and (iii) inadequate maintenance and premature deteriora-
tion of the country's fixed assets.
37.       To address these problems, the Government in late 1985 performed
its first comprehensive audit of civil service and temporary workers
(heretofore never fully counted).   On the basis of these results,  the
Government announced in November a sweeping fiTst-phase reduction of about
2,300 redundant temporary and daily wage employees and the elimination of
450 posts.   The  fiscal  savings  from  these actions  during  1985/86  are
estimated at roughly D1.7 million, net of statutory compensation.   The
Government has also adopted an embargo on the creation of net new posts
during the ERP period (1985/86-88/89), restrictions on the filling of
vacancies, and a halt Lo the practice of transferring budget allocations
for  unfilled  civil  service  posts  to  other  expenditure  categories
(especially the employment of temporary workers). At the same time, with
U.K. ODA assistance, the Government commissioned a major study of civil
service  staffing,  organization,   pay  scales,  efficiency,  and  staff
development needs.  Staff inspections were carried out in all ministries
(except Defense and Interior) in order to identify redundancies in civil
service  employment  and  the  scope  for  organizational  and  performance
improvements.  On the basis of the recently completed report, on July 1,
1986, the Government announced the following decisions:
(a)  750 vacant civil service posts and a further 750 currently filled
posts will be abolished, constituting a reduction of at least 14X
in the size of the established civil service;
(b)  A further 340 redundant temporary and daily wage employees will
be retrenched, constituting roughly a 50% cumulative reduction in
the size of the non-established Government work force since
December 1985;
(c)  The 750 established civil service employees to be retrenched have
been identified; termination notices will be issued as of
August 31, 1986, and staff will be effectively dismissed from
Government service by October 31, 1986;
2/   Despite the recent staff audit and progress made by the Accountant
General in computerizing the government payroll, the total number of
non-established (i.e., daily paid and temporary) workers has not been
conclusively identified.



- 12 -
(d)  In the 1986/87 budget, no funds have been allocated for estab-
lished but vacant posts (in contrast to the former practice of
fully funding these posts) except for certain priority posts in
specified Ministries; and
(e)  Beginning with the  1986/87 budget, wages for workers  in non-
esrnhlished posts will be paid only to those appearing on the
consolidated and verified list of temporarv and daily-paid
workers as of June 30, 1986, and wage payments will be made only
against specific budgetary provisions for wages and not out of
other budget categories.
38.       The Government intends to follow these staff retrenchment actions
with sustained and well-focused reforms of the public administration over
the next several fiscal years, including improvements in personnel
management,  manpower  budgetting,   financial   controls,   organizational
changes, pay and grading reforms, and changes in training and recruitment
policies.  The recommendations of the consultant study in these areas are
under consideration, and the Government expects to develop a multi-year
program of administrative reforms by early 1987 and to discuss its
proposals with the Association in February 1987.  Cabinet adoption of the
agreed program, as well as full implementation of the announced 1986/87
staff retrenchments, are conditions for release of the second tranche.
39.       Preliminary estimates indicate that gross fiscal savings from the
above retrenchments will amount to approximately D4-5 million during
1986/87. Net of statutory compensation, FY86/87 savings are expected to be
D2-3 million. The Government is committed to using the expected savings on
a priority basis for increased expenditures on material and supplies, with
the objective of raising the overall productivity of public administration.
40.       Finally, in light of the large number of individuals affected by
the administrative reform, the Government is developing a program to
provide reasonable compensation for those leaving government service. The
objective is to prepare people for productive roles in the private sector
--especially in agriculture, artisanal trades and small business. Institu-
tional arrangements for a modest adjustment/retraining program are being
finalized, but it is expected to be operational by December 1, 1986.
DI million in the 1986/87 budget has been earmarked for the start-up costs
of the program.
3. Public Investment
41.       An average public investment level amounting to about 15% of GDP
per annum over the past decade has resulted in little growth of output or
diversification of The  Gambia's  productive  base.   The  reasons  include
weaknesses in the Government's capacity to evaluate and supervise projects
and inadequate attention to the skilled manpower requirements, and recur-
rent cost, import cost, and debt service implications of investments, and
the Government's ability to sustain these.  Action to raise the overall
productivity of public investment is of critical importance for the success
of the ERP. To this end, the Government has established stringent criteria
for Investment selection and has initiated, with World Bank assistance. a
review of all ongoing and planned projects in order to identify a core



- 13 -
program of investments that meet these criteria.  The principal criteria
are:
(a) completion of adequate feasibility studies of the proposed
project;
(b) assigning of priority to projects whose economic rates of return
are high; the economic rate of return (where calculable) for all
new projects included in the program during the next two years
will be at least 15Z; for projects in social sectors whose
economic rate of return is not calculable, careful attention will
be given to cost-effectiveness; and
(c) completion of a thorough study of each proposed project's recur-
rent cost implications.
42.       Among projects that meet the above criteria, the Government will
give priority during the ERP period to projects with: net foreign exchange
generating or saving potential; an emphasis on the rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing capital assets rather than expansion or creation of
new assets; and long-term investments in human resource development (educa-
tion and health services) and research.
43.       The Government and the Association have begun a review of all
projects under execution, preparation or study in light of the above
criteria with the objective of identifying a "core" investment program,
"List A". for the ERP period (1986/87-1988/89). The core program comprises
projects and programs under implementation, which are consistent with the
recovery progrEm objectives  and criteria and whose  external  financing
requirements have been fully secured. The Government has also identified a
"B List" of pvjJects which are under implementation but require redesign
and/or reduction in scope to align them with the objectives of the ERP.
Finally, a "C List" has been established of proposed projects which either
have a substantial financing gap or are at the design stage and require
more thorough analysis of economic rates of return and recurrent cost
implications before they can be added to the core program.  (The three
lists are attached to the Letter of Development Policy, which is annexed.)
This review has been completed for 1986/87 and the effect has been to
reduce public investment from a proposed US$65 million to about US$30
million, including projects on the "B List" as currently designed.  This
implies a level of government development expenditure for 1986/87 equal to
roughly 20Z of estimated GDP, which is acceptable in light of the fact that
it includes a significant amount of recurrent expenditure.  Some further
savings may result from the review of the B List projects which the
Government has agreed to carry out with the respective donors by
December 1, 1986.
44.       For the period beyond 1986/87, the Government has adopted the
concept of a "rolling" public investment program, based on a three-year
programming period, and vith strengthened links to the annual preparation
of the recurrent budget. Accordingly, the Government will take the follow-
ing actions:



- 14 -
(a) By October 1, 1986, it will prepare aud agree with IDA on a
revised "core program" for the entire period 1986/87-1988/89 with
updated information on project execution, inflation, exchange
rates, and projected completion dates;
(b) By December 1, 1986, it will complete reviews of all B-list
projects with the donors involved and will agree on necessary
changes in project scope. design, cost estimates and execution;
(c)  By December 31, 1986, it will prepare a fully revised PIP inte-
grating the three lists:  List A in full; List B as modified;
those List C projects that meet the specified criteria and can be
accommodated without exceeding the ceilings to be agreed with
IDA; and the cost of studies on the remaining projects;
(d)  By December 1987, it will complete reviews of recurrent costs in
the four largest ministries--Agriculture, Health, Education and
Public Works;
(e) Beginning in 1987188, it will roll over the PIP and refine the
process as experience is gained, institutions strengthened, and
procedures adopted; the Government will also review with the
Association the Impact of the stringent 15% economic rate of
return criterion adopted for the first two years of the rolling
program to determine an appropriate criterion for subsequent
years; and
(f) To assure the integrity of the programming process, no external
borrowing will be approved unless the project is in the PIP.
45.       The Government is also taking further steps to strengthen its
investment programming capability with technical assistance from the UNDP
and possible initiation of an institutional "twinning" arrangement with the
Planning Ministry of another developing country with competence in this
field.
46.       Finally, while it is essential to establish a more effective
Gambian project appraisal and supervision capacity, progress in the quality
of public investment will also depend on donors' actions to support the
criteria established by the Government, especially with regard to the
scale, sectoral allocation, and recurrent cost and rehabilitation emphasis
of the program. Regular sectoral aid coordination meetings being sponsored
by the UNDP will provide an opportunity for donors to reach consensus with
the Government on investment priorities and sectoral policies.  In addi-
tion, it is important that donors be prepared to redesign ongoing projects
in support of the ERP priorities.
4. Other Fiscal Policies
47.       In  tandem with  the  civil  service  retrenchment  program,  the
Government is taking a number of actions to restructure public expenditure
and  reduce  the  overall  fiscal  deficit.   During  1985186,  the  deficit
(excluding grants) was reduced to 9% of GDP, from 17% in 1984/85. This was
achieved through: new revenue measures, wage and salary savings, tight



- 15 -
control of recurrent expenditures, and a slowdown in development expendi-
tures. However, given the existing underfunding of materials and supplies,
the Government  has attempted  to shield expenditure  in this area  from
further budget cuts.  With World Bank assistance, the Government has also
completed reviews of recurrent expenditure requirements and the adequacy of
existing budgetary allocations in the Ministries of Health and Public
Works; these sectoral reviews have been used in the preparation of the
1986/87 budget.   Similar reviews of the Ministries of Agriculture and
Education will  be performed during FYB6/87.  The Government's objective
over the next several years is to restore recurrent spending on materials
and supplies as a share of total recurrent expenditure to close to 50% (the
same as five years ago) from the current 25-30Z.
48.       In order to curb the growth of future budgetary liabilities, the
Government has adopted a moratorium on the provision of loan guarantees to
private or public enterprises, effective January 1, 1986, except as agreed
with IDA.  In the past, loan guarantees had been used as a development
incentive for private investors and for mixed ownership enterprises,
especially in the tourism sector. A large proportion of these ventures,
however, have proven unable to service their debts and the guarantees have
created a direct budgetary and foreign exchange burden for the government.
In the current climate of severely constrained public sector resources (and
particularly foreign exchange), the Government has decided that the risks
associated with further loan guarantees are unacceptable.
B. Production Environment and Incentives
1. Exchange Rate Reform
49.       As a key element of the ERP, the Government, in January 1986,
implemented a fundamental reform of the exchange system designed to achieve
a better balance between the economy's aggregate demand for, and supply of,
foreign exchange and to provide a clear measure of its real scarcity value
as a guide to appropriate pricing decisions.   In place of the previous
fixed exchange rate (pegged to the £ sterling), the Government introduced a
flexible interbank market system, under which the exchange rate of the
dalasi has been permitted to  float  freely.   The  interbank market was
initiated on January 20, 1986, with the assistance of a technical advisor
from  the  International  Monetary  Fund.   In  support  of  this  system,
liberalized exchange control procedures were also adopted.
50.       Following  some  initial  hesitancy by participants  in the new
interbank market system, the dalasi has floated freely and commercial bank
rates quoted at end-July represented a depreciation of about 125Z in local
currency terms on the previous fixed exchange rate. The interbank market
system has provided a clearer measure of the true scarcity value of foreign
exchange and has led to increased foreign exchange transactions within the
banking system and a marked diminution of activity in the parallel market.
At present, the differentials between the interbank and parallel market
rates are nominal. Consistent with the Government's exchange rate policy,
retail prices of petroleum products have been increased on four occasions
since  January 1986,  cumulatively  amounting  to  103%,  to  effect  a
pass-through of the exchange rate depreciation.   As noted above, other
officially controlled tariffs (in particular, electricity, water and



- 16 -
transportation charges) have also been adjusted to effect pass-throughe of
the exchange rate realignment.  These prices and tariffs will be adjusted
quarterly, in light of further exchange rate movements.
2. Financial Sector Rehabilitation
51.       A major constraint to the development of the productive sectors
is the financial and institutional weakness of the government-owned GCDB,
the largest bank and sole source of term lending in the country. Under the
ERP, the Government has launched a public campaign to restore credit
dtscipline.    Lending   activities   of   the   insolvent   government-owned
Agricultural Development Bank were formally suspended in March 1985 and its
future  is  being  reviewed.    The  Government  has  also  initiated  a
comprehensive financial restructuring and internal reorganization of the
GCDB. In particular, the Government has:
(a)  paid in a contribution to the GCDB's callable capital;
(b)  increased the GCDB's authorized share capital from D5 million to
D50 million;
(c)  amended  the GCDB's Act to open its share capital to foreign
(mainly development-oriented institutions) and private domestic
investors;
(d)  converted an outstanding IDA credit into GCDB equity; and
(e)  converted about one-thIrd of the GCDB's D100 million short- and
medium-term debt to the Central Bank into a quasi-equity loan,
the interest on which is being paid by the Government.
52.       As a final step in this financial restructuring, on January 1,
1987, the Government will transfer all outstanding government-guaranteed
loans (about 50% of GCDB's portfolio and 30% of its non-performing loans)
to a Government-held "managed fund". The loans in the managed fund will be
repaid by the Government to the Central Bank.  The GCDB will continue to
pursue loan collection on behalf of the Government and will receive a
commission on amounts collected. Finally, for the duration of the ERP, the
Government will cease to require or request GCDB to grant any further loans
or overdrafts. Satisfactory implementation of the managed fund on the date
and terms agreed with the Association will be a condition of release of the
second tranche.
53.       In  tandem with  these measures,  a major  program  of  internal
corrective actions is being implemented by the GCDB, including: technical
assistance to all major departments; retrenchment of excess staff; a
case-by-case portfolio review and intensified loan recovery effort;
improvements in credit evaluation procedures and documentation; improve-
ments in portfolio monitoring and management information systems; and
strengthening of the Board of Directors. In the context of a proposed IDA
credit to promote private sector development, technical assistance via a
"twinning" arrangement between the GCDB and a large Indian Bank is being
initiated, financed under a PPF.



- 17 -
3. Stimulating Agrictultural Production
54.       Expanding agricultural production is critical for The Gambia's
recovery in the short term as well as for its long-term development.  The
sector (now accounting for about one-third of GDP) will remain the mainstay
of the economy for the foreseeable future.  Production, which Is mainly
rainfed, is almost exclusively by smallholders, and has been characterized
in recent years by an expansion of food crop production (now believed to be
about 60% of total acreage) and declining production of groundnuts.
According to official statistles, aggregate production grew by less than 1I
per year from 1975 to 1985.  From an annual average of roughly 130,000-
150,000 tons in the 1970s, groundnut production has dropped since 1980 to
about 80,000-100,000 tons per year, in part because of a decline in most
years in the price incentives for groundnuts compared to the essentially
free market prices for food crops.  Institutional factors have also played
a role, sugh as underfunding of the Government research station responsible
for seed multiplication and the growing inefficiency of the parastatal
(Gambia Cooperative Ulnion) responsible for groundnut marketing and seeds
and fertilizer distribution.
55.       The  Government's  strategy  In  the  agricultural  sector  is  to
encourage both continued expansion of food crops, some recovery of ground-
nut production, and diversification into other cash crops (such as horti-
culture) through intensification of rainfed production.  This will require
not only adequate price incentives, but also significant institutional
improvements, particularly in the areas of agricultural extension, seed
multiplication, agricultural credit, and input supply and output marketing.
56.       The potential for substantially higher yields exists with the
application of current technical packages, and work has begun under the
auspices of a new USAID-funded research project (CARD) to develop longer-
term improvements, such as viable new crops, improved seeds for existing
crops, and extension messages geared to integrated farming systems. Many
of the institutional reforms being implemented (especially in the areas of
credit, seed multiplication, extension services and Input supply) are
designed to support the intensification of production of both food and cash
crops, in contrast to the earlier focus on cash crops alone. These reforms
notwithstanding, productlon trends will remain very sensitive to rainfall
patterns. On average, rainfall levels are adequate to sustain current
production patterns, but annual, intra-annual and regional variations are
significant, and there is some possibility of a long-term secular decline
in rainfall patterns. A medium-term objective of the ERP, therefore, is to
explore the development of cost-effective irrigation systems. At present,
however, the intensification of rainfed production appears considerably
more efficient economically and is the focus of the Government's strategy
for the ERP period.
57.       The Government's action program in agriculture aims at expanding
the role of the private sector in all phases of the production/marketing
chain; in addition to strengthening research, it focuses on:  (1) pricing
policy, (ii) input provision, (iii) agricultural credit, (iv) groundnut
marketing, and (v) institutional improvement.



- 18 -
58.       Pricing Policy.   AB a general policy, the  Government  Is now
committed to the pre-planting announcement of producer prices in order to
establish clear incentives for farmers. Given the recent introduction of a
flexible exchange rate system, the Government is also committed to keeping
producer prices under constant review and making prompt adjustments in the
light of exchange rate fluctuations.
59.       (a) Groundnucs.  The Government believes that it is important to
encourage groundnut production as the major source of official foreign
exchange earnings and as a crop in which The Gambia appears to have compar-
ative advantage. Although the long-term world price prospects for ground-
nuts are highly uncertain, given the indications of a gradual shift in
world demand to lower-fat cooking oils, some recovery in world prices from
the depressed current levels is expected over the nexc decade. The Gambia,
with less than 1% of world groundnut exports, is a price taker on the world
market and cannot sustain domestic producer prices that diverge from world
prices over the long term.
60.       Given the ease of border trade with neighboring Senegal, a second
concern of the Government's is to ensure that The Gambia's producer prices
do not fall below Senegal's. After two years in which the farmers' share
of realized export prices declined significantly, the Government in 1985/86
reversed this trend with a 100% increase in the groundnut producer price,
and has announced a further 45% increase for 1986/87. Although, in light
of the recent sharp decline in world groundnut prices, the 1986187 producer
price will result in a large financial logg for the GPMB, the Government
decided the increase (to approximate parity with the Senegalese price) was
justified in order to discourage cross-border outflows and maximize offi-
cial foreign exchange earnings.  The projected GPMB loss (equivalent to
about 9% of GDP) will be covered by a transfer payment from the budget,
which in turn will be financed partly by exceptional external assistance
and partly by new fiscal measures. However, the Government considers this
an exceptional arrangement for 1986/87, and not sustainable over an
extended period; prior to release of the second tranche, the Government
will agree with the Association on a groundnut producer pricing policy and
marketing arrangements for the 1987/88 crop season with a view to effecting
a sharp reduction in potential budgetary transfers to the GPMB during
1987/88 and their essential elimination in subsequent years.
61.       (b) Food Crops.  The Government does not intervene to control
producer prices of food crops, as the bulk of domestic cereals production
is either consumed on the farm or marketed by private traders. Government
policy under the ERP is to encourage the consumption of domestically-
produced cereals (which are mainly coarse grains) by providing a moderate
level of protection through a tariff on competing imported rice.  During
1985, the Government maintained this tariff at 23%; as of July 1, 1986, it
has been increased to 30%, partly to compensate for the recent drop in the
price of imported rice. The Government will adjust this level of protec-
tion as necessary in the future in order to encourage the consumption and
production of domestic cereals.
62.       In July 1985, the Government decontrolled the retail price of
rice  and  removed all  restrictions  on  its  importation.   As a result,



- 19 -
commercial traders have begun supplying the bulk of The Gambia's imported
rice requirements and the recurrent shortages experienced during [984 and
early 1985 have been eliminated; after having increased initially, retail
prices over the past four months have declined dramatically with the
increase in volume being imported.  Under the new policy, the parastatal
marleting board GPNB now handles official food aid shipments only and will
sell these only at competitive market prices.
63.       Input Supply.  Over the past few years, the Government has moved
substantially in the direction of economic pricing for agricultural inputs
in order to establish an appropriate incentive framework for farmers.
Under the ER?, the Government is additionally committed to promoting
efficiency In distribution through the elimination of the GCU's input
distribution monopoly and the expansion of competitive private sector
channels.
64.       (a) Fertilizer.  In January 1986. the Government announced the
liberalization of fertilizer distribution. To encourage private traders to
enter the market, in June 1986 it initiated the sale of fertilizers
received as a grant from the Italian Government to private traders via
competitive  bidding.   The  retail prices  charged  to  farmers have been
decontrolled and will be market-determined. Retail prices for fertilizers
supplied by  the GCU will also be market-determined.   Because the new
fertilizer pricing and distribution arrangements represent an important
change, the Ministry of Agriculture intends to study their impact upon
fertilizer consumption and agricultural production during the 1986 season.
Terms of reference for a study to this end have been agreed with the
Association and the results of the analysis will be reviewed jointly by the
Government and IDA during the mid-term review of the ADP II project.
65.       (b) Seeds.  The longstanding policy in The Gambia has been to en-
courage farmers to retain, treat and store their own groundnut seeds, as
this is generally more cost-effective than large-scale centralized col-
lection and redistribution of seeds each year.  However, the Government
recognizes the importance of (i) assuring farmers access to pesticides and
appropriate village-level storage facilities For their seeds; (ii) develop-
ing and disseminating new, high-yielding seed varieties (for groundnuts and
other crops); and (iii) maintaining a small security stock of treated
groundnut seeds to meet the demand of farmers whose crops fail or who need
additional or replacement seeds. (If this demand does not materialize,
treated groundnut seeds may be subsequently decorticated and processed.)
Pressures on the Ministry of Agriculture's recurrent budget in recent
years, however, have greatly reduced the supply of pesticides and limited
the foundation seed multiplication activities of the SAPU research station.
Lack of an explicit groundnut seed reserve policy and, therefore, disorga-
nized implementation resulted in the ad hoc collection of poor quality
nuts, little preventive treatment, careless storage, and late and unsystem-
atic distribution.
66.       In  light of  this experience,  the Government  is taking both
short-term and long-term actions to improve the quality and quantity of
seeds available. First, groundnut seeds for a 3,000 ton reserve/exchange
stock in 1986187 have been pre-screened by agricultural extension officers.
treated with pesticides, and stored at secure collection points. These



- 20 -
seeds have been made available to farmers in exchange fDr farmers' own
seeds or through sales at full cost.  Second. under the ADP II project.
ftnding in being provided for needed pesticides; na  a longer-term measure.
however, the Government is introducing expanded cost recovery from farmers,
and restructuring Ministry of Agriculture expenditure to ensure adequate
funding of pesticidet3 and other supplies.  Finally, with assistance from
the U.K. Government, USAID and the World Bank (in the context of the AI)F II
project). the Government is developing a decentralized system of seed
multiplication in which contract farmers, under the supervision of the
research station at SAPU, will be used to produce certified seed and
dissemination to farmers will be handled by private traders.  The role of
the Ministry of Agriculture in seed multiplication will be restricted to
basic research and initial varietal development. A detailed plan of action
for this new system of seed multiplication and dissemination is under
preparation and will be agreed with the Aseociation during the mid-term
review of the ADP II project.  As initial steps in implementing the new
policy, the Governmcnt has established a Seed Technology Unit for quality
control and Is recruiting a Seed Development Officer to asseist with
training and the planning of contracte with grovers for the 1987188 and
subsequent seasons.
67.       Agricultural Credit.  With World Bank assistance, the Government
has been working for several years to strengthen the management and finan-
cial viability of the Gambia Cooperative Union (CCU), the sole source of
institutional credit in the agricultural sector. Nonetheless, the GCU has
been forced to scale down its operations substantially over the past two
years because of poor loan-recovery rates and a shortage of fresh funds.
The Union has also suffered from rapidly rislg intermediation costs
reflecting a cumbersome administrative structure and poor internal con-
trols. At present, the GCU reports unrecovered loans to cooperative
members totalling D17.5 million, equivalent to several times the Union's
equity. 3/ Most of the loans are several years old and the CCU is pessi-
mistic  about  the prospects  for  recovery,  especially  in  light  of  the
Government's forgiveness of agricultural loans in several drought years in
the past.  Because of what it perceived as excessive risk, moreover, the
GCU until this season had abandoned medium-term production lending and
provided only seasonal input credits, in effect only for fertilizer and
groundnut seeds.  (For 1986187, GCU plans to extend about Dl million, or
20% of its total fresh credit, to farmers for equipment.)  The GCU has
recently been wracked by a major fraud, involving a large number of cooper-
ative secretaries, who are the main supervisory agents at the village
level, and who have since been arrested.
6B.       In light of these problems, the Government has decided to initi-
ate a comprehensive study of agricultural credit sources in The Gambia and
alternative institutional models of credit provision (such as lending to
village-groups,  rather than the present large cooperatives).  The study
will identify means of building viable and competitive channels for the
31 This is on top of Dl2.5 million in unrecoverable farmer loans which
were formally written off by the Government in June 1984.



- 21 -
privistlon  of n*seointil nnd  productInn  credit,  lncluding  privute  credlit
tianurcet.  Termn  of  reference  I-or ttle study hiave been agreedl and  the
GovernmLent  anJd  the  AsHoC Icint1on  will  Joill: Iy  review  the  sttidy  re-
CoTmnnend. lIonls, which  Ire expected to he availlable by March  1987.  AN i
condition oif rulci:san  of the second tranchie, the Government will agree with
the Atone l:t I(n on an eact ion program  (or fundaimental reforin of thle sysitem
of iagricuftlLuirn  rrretit.
69i.     (;rtiuninuti  Marketing  ukd f;lMII 111 ECl ciency. The GGII hain pla iyed a
milor role  In grounidnuit marketing, triditionnlly purcIlasing 1ront farmeru
nov   ffll% taOfl the groundiutit crop.  A recent UiSAil)-financed study, however,
han; conciluded titit extenslive govvernment subshidLes aknd other support to GCUI
lhaive undIermlned the ability ol- priviate groundnut traders to conmpete wlthl
:.CII antl haive contributed to tie rsharply risinp, unit costs of groundnut
ma.rke tinp,.  In accordance with  the policy objectives of  the ERP,  the
G:overnment Initends to ellminate disincentives to privatr groundnut traders
uind encourage Increased competition In groundnut marketing.
70.       Aitltough several comparntIve studies have found that the GPMB has
performed, in general, better than many other parastatal marketing boards
In Africa, there are several ways In which the efficiency of lts marketing
and processtnp. operations could be improved.  A USAID-financed study in
1985 concluded that unclear and conflicting objectives established by the
Government for the GPMB and a pattern of ad hoc financial relationships
between the Board and the central government had been the major factors In
the Board's sharp finnncial deterioration  and had undermined managerial
accountability and cost consciousness. The report, inter alia, recommended
negotiation of a "perfonmance contract" between the Government and the GPMB
as a means of addressing these problems.  As discussed earlier (pars. 33)
the Government has endorsed this approach and, with World Bank assistance,
Is preparing a performance contract with the GPMB for signature by
December 31, 1986.
71.       Reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture.   The Government
recognizes the need for a substantial reorganization and retrenchment of
the Ministry of Agriculture, going beyond the overall civil service reform
actions discussed earlier. The Ministry of Agriculture is by far the
largest ministry, and Its productivity has been constrained by grossly
inadequate recurrent supplies, poor internal organization, and a preponder-
ance of unskilled and  illiterate workers.   To begin addressing  these
problems, the Government initiated #In 1985 a merger of the extension
services of the departments of Agriculture and Crop Protection to eliminate
duplication. During 1986, Lltls merged extension service is being stream-
lined and developed into a modified training and visit extension system.
Under the ERP, the Government intends to conduct a more sweeping review of
the Ministry of Agriculture with a view to narrowing its functions to a few
core activities such as agricultural research, extension, statistical
analysis, and natural resources conservation. The Ministry's involvement
in operational activities, such as input supply and land preparation
services, which can be handled efficiently by private sector agents, will
be phased out. To aid In this reorganization, a consultant study is being
undertaken; the study will also examine staffing levels, the need for
further retrenchment, recurrent cost requirements. and will recommend
guidelines on the approprlate relationship between wages and salary



- 22 -
expenditures and recurrent supplies.  TOR for the study have been agreed
with the Bank and the study's recomuendations and a plan for implementing
the reorganization will be reviewed with the Bank in the context of ADP II
project supervision.
4. Stimulating Other Productive Sectors
72.       Induatrial Incentives.  The Gambia's modest manufacturing sector
(about 9Z of GDP) is largely local natural-resource based and export
oriented, reflecting the Government's open, trade-oriented development
I4trategy. Under the ERP, government policy will continue to promote
export-oriented industrial Investments and only such import-substitution as
is competitive without excessive trade protection.  The overall business
environment is liberal, with low average trade tariffs (25-30%), no quanti-
tative restrictions, and limited price controls (mainly in respect of the
major parastatals), investment regulations or employment restrictions; the
free repatriation of capital is also guaranteed.   In recent years,  the
Government has been making a transition from a predominantly public invest-
ment-led development strategy in the goods-producing sectors to a strategy
of government withdrawal in favor of the private sector--an approach which
is being accelerated under the ERP.  There have been encouraging signs
recently of increased foreign direct investment, particularly in the
fishing and agroprocessing subsectors.
73.       The exchange rate reform implemented under the ERP is expected to
be an important stimulus to the sector, as it will increase the profitabil-
ity of export activities and foster investor confidence that the monetary
regime will swiftly adjust to changing circumstances; by raising the local
cost of  imported consumer goods,  the reform should also stimulate the
development of some additional import-substituting local industries.
Beyond this action, the Government will:
(a) By July 31,1986, introduce a program to make the National Invest-
ment Board (NIB) 4/ a "one-stop" assistance center for potential
investors, foreign and domestic.  NIB will assist investors in
preparing project proposals and application. for benefits under
the investment code where necessary. The NIB, with the collabo-
ration of the Planning Ministry (MEPID), will complete an invest-
ment guide by December 31, 1986 in which the applicable laws and
regulations for new investment are presented.
(b) By December 31,1986, enact a revised investment code (Development
Act) covering all sectors and incorporating simplified adminis-
trative  procedures  for  granting  investment  incentives.   Duty
exemptions on importation of raw materials will be limited to
initial inventories not to extend beyond one year's supply.
4/   The NIB is an independent government agency of about 15 professional
staff, whose responsibilities are divided between public enterprise
monitoring and private sector investment promotion. Despite its small
size, the NIB has been quite effective in both areas.



- 23 -
However, the increased predictability of the decision process
will maintain the attractivenesa of new investment, as decisions
will now be taken within 90 days of application.  The level of
benefits will also be standardized to reduce administrative
complexity and the margin for discretion.
(c) By December 31,1986, review the existing provisions of the Gambia
Customs Tariff Act regarding duty drawbacks for manufactured
exporters with a view to:
(I) clarifying the provisions;
(ii) proposing any amendments necessary to establish a drawback
system available for all domestic exports (effectively
eycluding reexports); and
(iii) establishing administrative procedures for the efficient and
equitable application of the system.
(d) By December 31, 1986, approve a plan of administrative action to
promote the full utilization of the Kanifing Industrial Estate,
including review of land allocation and tenure and access to
electricity and water for industrial users.
74.       Fishing. Estimates of annual fish catch in The Gambia's offshore
and estuarine waters are sketchy, owing to the presence of unregistered
vessels, widespread poaching and underreporting, and difficulties in
recording the full scope of artisanal fishing activity, which is very
important  in The Gambia.   Estimates  of the country's  fish stocks  and
maximum sustainable yield are also considered by experts to be weak, based
as they are on limited and quite old survey data. Concerns about possible
overfishing of certain species, such as shrimp and high-value demersal
stocks, have recently been raised by the FAO. To address this problem, the
Government has decided to commission an updated baseline study of The
Gambia's fish stocks. Nonetheless, it appears that total annual production
for many species is still only a fraction (perhaps 20%) of the potential
sustainable yield and that, given reasonable development of The Gambia's
fish resources, by 1990 as much as 35,000 tons annually could be available
for export--representing net foreign exchange earnings of nearly US$14
million (in 1985 prices) and covering as much as 70% of the projected
petroleum import bill.
75.       Between  1979  and  1984,  however, The  Gambia's  recorded  fish
production and exports actually declined. This decline appears to reflect
both the uneven production performance of The Gambia's two onshore proces-
sing facilities and underreporting in order to evade steep export duties on
fish products (17-20% of the fob value).  Fish exports in 1984/85 were
estimated on the order of US$1 million, or less than 10% of the value of
groundnut exports, even in a very poor year.
76.       In line with the diversification objectives of the ERP, the
Government recognizes the importance of achieving a maximum expansion of
exports and value added in the fishing sector and has taken action to
remove disincentives that may have constrained the sector in the past. In



- 24 -
July 1985, It eliminated all taxes on fish exports. Initial indications
from the Department of Fisheries suggest that recorded production in
1985/86 may be 20% above the previous year.   The recently implemented
exchange reform will also Improve the competitiveness of Gambian fish
exports.  Finally, in June 1986, the Government increased license fees for
foreign vessels operating in Gambian waters, to cover the cost of increased
on-board surveillance by Department of Fisheries inspectors to help guard
against overfishing.  These policy changes appear to have contributed to
the recent significant increase in investment in the sector--both by
private Gambians (including several prominent reexport traders) and foreign
investors.
77.       In view of the increasing private sector interest in the fishing
sector and in the context of its overall public enterprise divestiture
strategy, the Government has initiated steps to divest its shares in the
Seagull Coldstores Corporation, now (60%) government-owned.  Moreover, it
has reconsidered the decision taken in 1983 to create a new 100%
government-owned company in the fishing sector, the Fish Processing and
Marketing Corporation (FPMC).  The FFMC, although legally established in
early 19B5, is not yet operational; donor financing for the project,
however,  has  been  committed  since  1983.   The Government has  recently
acknowledged that to proceed with the creation of a new parastatal in a
sector where it is actively trying to divest existing government holdings
is inconsistent with its commitment to rationallzation of the parastatal
sector.  Therefore, it has agreed to try to privatize the FPMC before it
becomes operational.  To ensure that the project is attractive to private
investors, the Government has also agreed to carry out updated studies of
the project's economic and financial feasibility, given the fact that the
existing appraisal dates from 1983 and, since then, the FAG) has raised
concerns about possible overexploitation of The Ga'tia's fishing resources.
In close consultation with the donors involved, IDA will assist the
Government in preparing terms of reference and seeking grant financing to
carry out the updated studies by not later than December 31, 1986.  No
further work on the project will be authorized (except for completion of
ongoing preliminary design activities) until the updated studies have been
reviewed  with   the  donors   involved.   if  majority  private  equity
participation in the company cannot be secured by June 30, 1987, the
Govenment will consult with the cedonors on a format for implementation
consistent with the objective of privatization.   Finally,  if government
minority participation in the project is retained, the estimated economic
rate of return for the investment would have to exceed 15%, in order to
meet the ERP criteria for the public investment program.
78.       In addltion to these actions, the Government intends to:
(b) By September 30, 1986, as noted above (para. 74), commission an
updated baseline study of The Gambia's fish stocks and use this
to develop an overall resource management plan;
(c) By December 31, 1986, develop a strategy to encourage artisanal
fishing, including construction of needed basic infrastructure at
landing sites and access roads between lauding sites and larger
roads, and strengthening of the revolving loan fund for artisanal
fishermen, previously financed by the European Community.



- 25 -
79.       Touriam.   Tourism has been the fanrtet-growing sector  in the
Gambian economy in recent years, with GDP generated by hotels and restau-
rants tripling between 1981 and 1985. Tourist traffic has increased from
about 30,000 visitors in 1982 to 75,000 (expected) in 1986. The market has
also become more diversified, both by nationality and by season (with
increasing summer, or off-peak, arrivals); the potential exists to attract
more than 110,000 visitors a year by 1990.
80.       Despite  this  growth,  the  financial position  of The  Gambia's
hotels remains precarious and the country's net foreign exchange earnings
from the sector appear to be unusually low. For 1985/86, these are roughly
estimated at US$9-1D million, or about 20% of The Gambia's estimated total
net foreign exchange earnings. However, available data lndicate that these
net earnings from tourism are less than 45% of gross receipts. as compared
with 60% or better in other countries. A large part of the problem is that
most of the initial hotel Investments from 1978-1982 were poorly struc-
tured, with excessively high debt-to-equity ratios and external financing
on very hard terms (guaranteed by the government). Most of The Gambia's 10
major hotels have less than 5% equity, and most of this is government-
owned.   In  addition,  the hotels  are  plagued  by  high operating  costs
(including high energy costs and expatriate salaries).
81.       The  Government's  strategy  for  addressing  these  problems  is
three-fold. First, it has rescheduled the external debt of several hotels
through bilateral negotiations and expects to work out arrangements for the
remaining hotels through Paris and London Club discussions this fall.
Second, it has requested existing private partners to provide increased
equity to strengthen the financial base of the major hotels and this has
been agreed in at least two cases.  As soon as the hotels can be made
sufficiently attractive, the Government intends to transfer them completely
to private ownership.  Third, under the ER? the Government has adopted a
moratorium on government loan guarantees (except as agreed with IDA), which
will help ensure that future tourism projects are financially viable.
82.       Although the Government intends to leave future development of
the sector to private investors (both foreign and domestic), the pattern of
low net foreign exchange earnings from tourism raises several issues for
government  policy.   To assist  the Government  in  designing appropriate
taxation, monetary (e.g., to discourage the holding of offshore bank
balances by the hotels) and other policies--both t. encourage the future
development of the sector and to maximize its contribution to the Gambian
economy--the Bank is collaborating with the Government on a major study of
the tourism sector, scheduled to be completed by August 1986. On the basis
of the study's recommendations, the Government intends to work with the
Bank to elaborate a medium-term development strategy for the sector.
PART III - ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT
A. Economic Impact
83.       Economic projections for The Gambia must be approached with more
than the usual degree of caution.  First, the data base is exceptionally



- 26 -
weak, especially regarding investment and major items in the balance of
payments  (reexports, nonfactor services, capital outflows).  Second, The
Gambia's past macroeconomic trends offer little guide to the future, as
they cannot  reasonably be projected  to continue:   unchecked growth of
government conisumption, low growth or stagnation in productive sectors,
large private capital outflows and declining net aid inflows by 1985 had
already produced a compression of domestic real incomes and balance-of-
payments disequilibria so severe that internal and external pressures for
adjustment could no longer be ignored.
84.       Nonetheless, for the purpose of assessing the economic impact of
the Economic Recovery/Structural Adjustment program, two sets of macroeco-
nomic projections prepared for the 1985 CEM were recently updated: Projec-
tion "A" portrays the likely pressures on the economy if the Government had
not begun to implement comprehensive structural adjustwent policies.
Projection "B" illustrates a growth path which is feasible and consistent
with estimated long-term levels of external support available for a country
of The Gambia's size, assuming Ci) that the Government is able to implement
fully its Economic Recovery Program over the next several years, r.nd
(il) that the coordinated donor assistance package for 1986/87, of which
the SAL and associated cofinancing is an important part, is successfully
put in place. The results of the two projection scenarios are summarized
in Table I; details are given in Annex VI.
85.       Projection A assumes the continuation of recent trends without
adjustment. Medium-term real growth of the economy would hover around the
trend growth rate of the past decade, roughly 1.8% per year, implying a
continued decline in per capita incomes of atout 1% per year. 5/ Even this
rate of growth, however, is overstated as it assumes that the trend rate of
investment  could be  sustained.   As  domestic  savings become  even more
negative under the scenario, maintaining the trend level of investment
would require a high level of donor project support, which, given the
current climate of disrupted disbursements, is unlikely. The productivity
of investment (with an ICOR of roughly 10-12) would remain low, as the
scenario assumes no coordinated action by the Government and the donor
community to streamline the public investment program and assure a better
balance between maintenance of existing assets and new capital expenditure.
In short, under Projection "A" even minimal growth of the economy would be
possible only through unrealistic levels of donor assistance to The Gambia,
to finance a dramatically widening current account deficit. The scenario
is, therefore, one of low growth, lower domestic savings, higher unemploy-
ment, declining real wages, and a worsening balance of payments position
that would leave The Gambia unable to service its accumulated external debt
and dependent on implausible levels of aid.
5/   Both scenarios assume some slowing of The Gambia's current estimated
rate of population growth (3.4%/year) to about 3.0% per year, partly
as a result of government programs now being implemented.



- 27 -
T1 I
!hmev wolc PuW1.Ctia  sdrmy
Pzv1aia.d                 P"lectim per
&~-b-- '>||Em         wrrnd Scord"           -!MSow
Agig         if-) "18       91 P W        I WP%  1907-      1991l
amoh Raw( p.a.)
a (at   _   pri)                      -8.6          7.3         2.0        1.8         3.4        3.4
Prlm y                              -5.6         15.5        0.7         0.2         3.2         3.2
(of ikh,. pvmhut.)              (-34.1)      (+2D.0)       (0.1)      (0.1)       (3.0)      (3.0)
Scawdary                            -6.6          3.0        2.2         2.2         4.1        4.1
Tertiay                            -10.9          3.3         3.0        3.0         3.4         3.4
Eqiorta of GMIS                      -19.8         12.1        2.5         2.6         4.1        2.7
ssTx       (offkeuly nzhwm iD      -39.7         +2.8        -3.0        0.1        13.6         3.3
Iqorts of  FS                        -14.2          3.6        3.9         2.9         1.6        2.6
Prnt Of GDP
Cqrtmci                              100.3         99.5       105.3      107.8        95.1       92.6
Tm ctic Sb np a/                      -0.3          0.5        -5.3       -7.8         5.1         7.4
I uibmot, rato                        21.7         18.0       22.4        23.0        18.0        17.7
Ph.onizr Gap                         -22.0        -17.5      -27.7       -30.8       -13.1      -10.3
(nwr.it Acx t Hmlb                   -23.3        -20.9      -39.2       -43.1       -19.2      -12.8
MMr bl                              (12-13)      (12-13)       9.5        12.1         5.8        5.2
QW per capita (gKmwtb rMMe)          -11.0          3.8        -1.1       -1.2         0.3         0.4
Debt Servle Ratio (Z) c/              19.6        19.4        17.6       10.1        15.1         8.6
M$ MUlUil  (ml averaum)
Carrant Acoiut Bluuw3                -35          -36         -54        -84         -31         -31
OfflcialG tuts                        30           38          36         47          26          32
WLX Disxbzraunts d/                    18           8          19          2          16           2
Awrtizatci  du e7                    -16          -25         -19        -11         -19         -11
- an XNr debt                      (-11)       (-12)       (-12)      (-11)       (-12)       (-11)
-"U                                 (-5)       (-13)        (-7)         -         (-7)          -
Net Sbort  fS CWp., E    Oiaxn,  sfrm    -6        -1         -16        -13         -18        -13
Mmv Finzwutig 1qd.fl                  -            -           34         59          26          21
(Arraa hdlid-up)                    (9)         (16)
RAin  tE r t or     adjustit.
bl  Past MCJR ae  difflcul to e ae bFam  of wide flneuutim  in GDP; if yea= of declning CJP
are lwr ed, the tm yes 1wM    appeu   -n the arder of 12-13.
el  Service paymfts on p6blic (or pulik cmra teed) unw.- aid hug-a=rm  OCI) debt as a peratawge
Of Woa eq-rtg of eoop and  srvces (Imi1             eadmted .-eVpot) aid mldi  fl
d/  ProJected d.B- r.   n  an the bEEis of the          2!Elm of lnom comitbmti tsmugh end 1985.
el  bichn  rtepms ats due on NLT debt and dm to IHF.
f/ 1Uxx an soue, incwihmIiig -n m:r --T     r        and project-elated grawte. diaurcents wider the
propxsed SAL aid pondble folkaeo-p operatims, wn use of DM rienmwes, other exrYtCtmml
bmlm-of-Vqynta aid, or debt relef fr=m  .maddu 4g.



- 28 -
86.       Projection  B  illustrates  the  expected  results  of  sustained
implementation of the Government's Economic Recovery Program. The economy
would grow at a rate of 3.4% over the period, allowing GNP per capita to
increase by roughly 0.4% per year. Although slight, this improvement would
at least mark a reversal of the decade-long decline in per capita incomes
in The Cambia. The sources of growth are a gradual recovery of agricultu-
ral production (both cash and food crops), an acceleration of growth in the
secondary sector, and continued growth of services at about the trend rate
of the past decade.
87.       In agriculture,  the institutional reforms and price incentives
being Implemented under the ERP are expected to support a modest (3% per
year) recovery of groundnut production from the current level (estimated on
the order of 80-90,000 tons in 1985/86) to roughly 100,000 tons in 1990 and
117,000 tons by 1995. To place this in perspective, it should be recalled
that the average reported production for the decade 1975-1985 was 110,000
tons per year, and in prevlous years of good rainfall production as high as
130,000-150,000 tons has been attained (most recently in 1982/83).  With
intensification of production through the introduction of improved seeds,
adequate fertilizers and pesticides, and reductions in post-harvest losses
associated with more efficient marketing, groundnut production could
certalnly regain the level of 1982/83.   All of this, however,  is very
sensitive to world prices, and is discussed further in the section on
project  risks.   Given  the  uncertain  world  price  trends  for groundnut
exports over the next several years, a more conservative, 3% per year,
growth of production was assumed.   It is expected,  however,  that this
recovery of groundnut production could be accompanied by 3% per year
expansion of food crops (compared with the 6% per year trend rate for the
past decade estimated by the FAO), thanks to the assumed productivity
increases. Thus, under the ERY, the agricultural sector as a whole would
move slightly in the direction of increased food crop production relative
to groundnuts, as food crops currently account for a larger share (about
60%)  of total production.   The overall growth rate projected  for the
primary sector is 3.2% per year, which also reflects the estimated growth
of the fishing and livestock subsectors (5% and 3%, respectively).
88.       Although groundnut production would grow by only about 3% per
year, it should be noted that the volume of (official) groundnut exports
would Increase by more than 13% per year over the 1987-90 period. This is
because of the exceptionally low share of estimated production that was
marketed domestically during the past two years, associated with the
Government's inability to keep producer prices competitive with neighboring
countries' during a period of exchange rate instability. Given the indica-
tions of growing confidence in the dalasi since the January 1986 exchange
reform and the Government's commitment to maintaining competititve producer
prices, the volume of groundnuts marketed in official channels in The
Gambia ls expected to increase from the 1985/86 level (about 60% of total
production) to the historical average (80Z of production) by 1989/90.
After 1990, although the volume growth of exports would slow slightly, more
favorable world price trends are expected to produce a steady improvement
in the current account balance.
89.       In the secondary sector, the exchange rate reform, new investment
code and other incentives for manufacturing would lead to an acceleration



- 29 -
of growth from the past trend rate of roughly 2.2Z per year to about 4%.
In particular, growth is expected in fish processing, food processing,
tanning, construction and building materials. Finally, the tertiary sector
would benefit from the liberalization of rice marketing and agricultural
input distribution, plus expanded commerce associated with the gradual
growth of domestic manufacturing activity.  Tourism is also expected to
continue its trend growth of the past five years (52 per year), taking into
account new hotel capacity under construction and the prospects for higher
value added from improved linkages with the rest of the economy.  These
would largely offset the (i) zero growth in value-added Imputed to govern-
ment administration, reflecting the Government's policy commitment under
the ERP to reduce significantly public sector employment; and (ii) the
expected decline in the growth of reexports over the period, as neighboring
countries implement trade policy reforms that progressively reduce the
incentives for The Gambia's transit trade.
90.       In sum, the ERP policies would promote a progressive diversifica-
tion of the productive base--within agriculture, with a shift towards food
crops and horticulture--and thrDugh the expansion of fishing, tourism, and
resource-based manufacturing. Although the projections indicate a constant
GDP growth rate over the period, by 1991-95 this growth would stem from a
more diversified productive base, less dependent upon groundnuts.
91.       A second important distinction between the recovery and trend
scenarios is the increased productivity of investment under the former,
achieved though: (a) stringent project selection to raise the average rate
of return on public Investments and to increase the cost-effectiveness of
social investments, (b) greater attention to adequate recurrent budgeting
to safeguard the economic returns from completed investments, and (c)
progressive increase in the share of total investment contributed by the
private sector,  with expected higher average returns.   Taken together,
these changes would result in a reduction in the economy-wide incremental
capital output ratio (ICOR) from roughly 12-13 at present, to the range of
5-6 and would permit higher economic growth with a lower rate of
investment.
92.       The greatest divergence between the two scenarios, ultimately,
can be seen in the evolution of the current account. Attempts to sustain
the trend rate of output growth in the absence of macroeconomic policy
adjustments, as noted above, would result in a dramatic deterioration of
The Gambia's current account deficit under the trend scenario, from an
estimated 21% of GDP in 1985/86, to 40% by 1990 and 44% by 1995. Under the
recovery  scenario,  there would  be   little  improvement  in  the current
account deficit initially, as imports, which have been compressed signifi-
cantly over the past four years in real terms, are restored to levels
adequate to support real growth. However, ERP policies to promote exports,
encourage local cereals production as a substitute for imported rice, and
improve the efficiency of public investment, would eventually produce a
progressive improvement in the current account deficit, which would decline
to about 13% of GDP by 1995. The tight demand management policies being
pursued under the Government's 1986/87 financial program are expected to
brin;- down the rate of inflation to 15% in 1986/87 and 10% thereafter,
which would foster exchange rate stability.



- 30 -
93.       External Financing Reqgirements.   Although under  the Economic
Recovery Program The Gambia's current account balance would begin Improving
between 1986 and 1990, coordinated and sustained donor assistance is
clearly needed to enable the country to implement its adjustment program.
Cumulative balance-of-payments disequilibria over the past several years,
exacerbated by the sharp fall in medium- and long-term (ILT) disbursements
during 1984/85 and 1985/86, have resulted in substantial unfinanced
balance-of-payments gaps which to date have been accommodated only by the
accumulation of external arrears.  As of June 1986, The Gambia's total
external arrears amounted to more than SDR 75 million (including arrears to
the IMF). It is crucial that The Gambia begin liquidating these, in order
to retain its standing with the IMF and to enable donors to resume develop-
ment project disbursements.  A concerted donor effort for 1986 (includlng
official debt rescheduling) would enable the cotntry to regain credibility
with its creditors and pursue implementation of the recovery program in an
environment of greater balance-of-payments stability.
94.       At the September 1985 meeting in London, donors discussed this
situation and agreed to try to mobilize roughly SDR 50 million in emergency
balance-of-payments support for The Gambia, covering the period through
December 1987.  Including the proposed SAL and associated co-financing,
other aid commitments (notably from the U.K. and The Netherlands), possible
assistance from the IMF, and official rescheduling of eligible debt, a
coordinated financing plan has now been achieved, as can be seen from
Table II.
95.       Assuming a continuation of the trend level of grant aid to The
Gambia--mainly for technical assistance--and counting only expected dis-
bursements from the existing project pipeline (as of end-1985), net annual
aid flows would average only about US$30 million in 1987-90 and about US$23
million in 1991-95. According to the projection results, net additional
external financing of roughly US$26 million a year in 1986-90 and US$21
million a year in 1991-95 would be required to sustain the recovery sce-
nario. These figures average about US$24 million a year in current dollars
for the entire projection period, if all new commitments are on highly
concessional terms. 6/ This requirement is not out of line with past MLT
commitment levels; it could be financed through such commitments and be
supplemented, if necessary, by further debt rescheduling, multilateral
structural adjustment lending, bilateral commodity assistance, and other
balance-of-payments aid.
96.       Although an exceptional level of donor assistance is being sought
for 1986/87, it appears vell-justified because it would set in motion a
sustained recovery and a decline in external capital requirements in the
medium term. It should be stressed in this connection that coordinated
61   This  includes US$6-B  million  per  year possible  debt  relief  from
rescheduling.



- 31 -
Table II
Foreign Exchange Requirements and Financing
(Official Sector Transactions) July 1986 - Dec. 1987
(in millions of SDRs)
1986/87    July-Dec. 1987    TOTAL
6 mos.        (18 mos.)
Outflows                             40.7           13.6           54.3
MLT Debt service a/                 9.2            7.4           16.6
Other debt service b/               6.9            --             6.9
IMF repayments c/                  19.1            3.7           22.8
Reconstitution of reserves          5.5            2.5            8.0
Inflows                              29.5           10.5           40.0
GPMB                                8.4           --              8.4
Exceptional Aid                    21.1           10.5           31.6
SAL                              15.0           10.5           25.5
- IDA                           (2.6)          (1.7)          (4.3)
- SAF                           (6.0)          (3.8)          (9.8)
- U.K. Joint Fin.               (3.8)          --             (3.8)
- ADF Cofin.                    (2.6)          (5.0)          (7.6)
OTHER, incl. EC STABEX            6.1           --              6.1
Balance e/                          -11.2           -3.1          -14.3
Note: Exchange rates used: US$1.49 - £1.00, US$1.18 - SDR1,
US$0.95 - ecu 1
a/   Includes full payment of NLT debt service obligations (after assumed
relief from official rescheduling of 19B6/87 debt and arrears by the
Paris Club and other creditors); it is assumed that an effective
rescheduling of 97.5% of principal and interest due during 1986/87 and
arrears as of June 30, 1986 is obtained, and that 100% of principal
owed to other official creditors is rescheduled.   The figure for
July-Dec. 1987, however, does not reflect possible rescheduling of the
1987/88 debt.
b/   Interest due on short-term debt and repayment of GPMB overdraft with
Standard Chartered Bank.
cl   Includes repayment of arrears as of end-June 1986 of SDR 10.3 million
plus amounts due during 1986/87.
e/   Could be covered by possible new drawings of IMF resources (including
CFF and SAF financing) or other exceptional financing. This balance,
however, does not allow for any further cash reductions in The
Gambia's outstanding arrears.



- 32 -
donor agreement with the aims of the ERP--particularly with respect to
public investment priorities--is essential for the program to realize the
economic benefits projected here. The Government has agreed to adhere to a
stringent core program of high-return investments; not only should donors
refrain from offering financing for any project outside this program, they
should make every effort to ensure that the core program is carefully
designed and fully implemented, given the importance of complementarity and
the timely execution of projects for maximum economic impact.
B.   Social Impact
97.       The Government's Economic Recovery Program (ERP) should in the
medium term contribute to broad based economic growth and allow increases
in per capita income and consumptlon not possible without the program.
However, it is not expected that the costs and benefits of the program will
be evenly distributed. In general, the incentive structure is deslgned to
encourage agriculture and lncrease real incomes in the rural areas relative
to urban areas. Since the rural areas conLain the majority of population
and a disproportionately high share of the poor, the ERP should contribute
to absolute poverty alleviation in the medium term.  The predominance of
small-holder agriculture and mixed (cash/food) cropping in The Gambia
suggest that the real income in rural areas may be fairly evenly
distributed. Although there are some landless farmers in The Gambia, they
are largely migrants (known as "strange farmers") from neighboring coun-
tries.
98.       The second major policy thrust of the program--improvement in the
efficiency of the public sector--should translate eventually into a lower
share of national income absorbed by the public sector and better social
services as a result of explicit efforts to raise the productivity of
government agencies.   These effects would contribute to improved living
conditions for all groups, and probably the urban population in particular,
which is likely to remain the major beneficiary of education, health and
other government services.
99.       In the short run, however, all groups will feel some loss of
consumer purchasing power associated with the depreciation of the dalasi,
and increases in water, electricity, public transport tariffs, and retail
prices of petroleum products and basic consumer goods, most of which are
imported.
100.      The severe lack of data on income distribution and consumption
patterns in The Gambia makes both the design and analysis of economic
policy  reforms  extremely  difficult.   To  address  this  situation,  the
Government and the Association have agreed to carry out a research project
designed to track some of the real income effects of the ERP and the pace
of adjustment at the household level in representative segments of the
population. A carefully designed survey of household income and consump-
tion patterns in selected urban and rural compounds will be carried out and
repeated at regular intervals.  Funding for this research effort is being
sought from several sources at present.
101.      At present, however, only qualitative observations on the prob-
able effects of the adjustment process on various segments of the



- 33 -
population may reasonably be made.   The population can be divided into
groups according to the nature of their economic activity.   In the urban
areas, income can be earned In either the formal or informal sectors.  Tn
the rural areas, the three basic economic groups are:  farmers; livestock
herdsmen (primarily the Fula ethnic group); and the small number of rural
households (estimated at about 5% of the population) whose livelihood Is
primarily non-farm activities (craftsmen and traders).
102.        Gambian  agriculture  is  dominated  by  upland  production  of
subsistence food crops (mainly millet, sorghum, and maize), groundnuts for
both cash and subsistence, and a small amount of cotton.  The sharp nominal
increases in producer prices under the ERP have clearly produced a
significant short-term increase in gross income in these households.  The
Covernment's policy to support a further 45% increase in the groundnut
producer price for 1986/87 at a time of falling world prices will provide a
significant  transfer  to the  rural  population.   On  the other hand,  the
depreciation of the dalasi. combined with the elimination of fertilizer
subsidies will cause input prices to rise, as will prices of imported food
items and other goods consumed by Gambian farm families.   Provided that
cash crop producer prices are maintained in real terms at their current
levels and climatic conditions are favorable, however, real per capita
incomes and consumption will improve for Gambian farmers.
103.      Non-farm households  (both herders and rural traders/craftsmen)
are not expected to gain directly from the changed incentive structure,
although increased farm incomes should spill over into increased demand for
other products and services and the ERP should promote a larger role for
private traders in the countryside, as input suppliers, credit agents and
marketers.   Migrant  farmers  (usually  from  neighboring  countries)  who
commonly provide farm labor for cash crops on a wage or share cropping
basis should also experience increased incomes.
104.      In the urban areas, roughly 20% of employment (although a much
higher percentage of  income)  is located in the formal  sector.   Formal
sector income is primarily generated by the public sector, either through
direct  employment  or  government  contracts,  and  through  tourism.   Real
incomes in the formal sector are expected to decrease in the short run as a
result of the adjustment program and to decline relative to the incomes in
the rural areas.  The Covernment's civil service reform will result in some
unemployment, as may the curtailment of public investment.  In the medium
term, improved incentives for the private sector, especially in resource
based industries such as agro- and fish processing should stimulate private
sector employment, helping to mitigate the negative effects of the
contraction in the public sector.
105.      The effect of the adjustment process on urban informal sector
incomes is less clear. The slowdown in urban formal sector production and
income growth will hurt this sector, but may be partly compensated by
growing demand for informal sector services/products from the rural areas.
In addition, most informal sector products are import substitutes (soap,
textiles, etc.), whose demand will be boosted by the dalasi depreciation.
Taxi drivers, artisans and others who service the tourist industry should
experience less income compression, since tourism prospects remain bright.
However, at least initially, all urban groups will experience a loss of



- 34 -
purchasing  power  associated  with  the  exchange  rate  depreciation.  and
increased prices for tradeable food items, fuel, and utility and transport
tariffs, as these constitute a large proportion of the urban household
budget.
106.      The net effect of the adjustment program on poverty in the urban
areas  is difficult  to assess.  The  link between  production  units and
consumption units is weaker in urban areas; for example, a consumption unit
may include formal and informal sector participants.  While all available
lndicators (wages, health status, Infant and child mortality, literacy,
access to potable water, etc.) suggest a much higher living standard in the
urban areas than in rural villages, it cannot be denied that the adjustment
process will be difficult for these groups. Some reversal of the high rate
of rural/urban migration of the past decade will most likely occur as
employment opportunities shrink in urban areas.  Extended family networks,
the welfare system of low income countries, will have a major role to play
in easing the transition.
107.      The Government recognizes that the fundamental objectives of the
structural adjustment process are to reduce the size of the public sector
in the economy, encourage the growth of the private sector, and increase
incentives and incomes in agriculture and that these adjustments necessar-
ily will entail painful dislocations among significant segments of the
urban population (particularly around the capital Banjul/Kombo St. Mary).
To facilitate the adjustment process for retrenched government workers, the
Government is currently exploring the establishment of a modest "adjustment
clearinghouse" that could offer counseling services and work with the
Gaambian Chamber of Commerce to find private sector employment for redundant
government workers. In order to avoid large overhead expenses, the clear-
inghouse would be built around existing agencies, such as IBAS (Indigenous
Business Advisory Service, established with support from ILO), the NIB, and
the Chamber of Commerce. A small scale credit scheme (also administered by
IBAS), in conjunction with severance pay for some workers, is also being
planned on an experimental basis.
PART IV  -  THE PROPOSED OPERATION
A. Background
108.      The principal objective of the proposed Credit  is to provide
immediate assistance for the Government's economic recovery program and
allow economic activity to expand while current and future reform measures
are implemented.
109.      The Credits and the associated cofinancing will thus help support
the long-run rehabilitation and adjustment of the Gambian economy.  While
the reform measures taken so far are important, further substantial action
is required, focusing on measures to stimulate domestic output, particular-
ly in the agricultural sector. As noted above, improvements are also being
sought in investment programming, agricultural pricing, marketing and
distribution reforms, and retrenchment of the size and operations of the
public sector. These structural changes will take time, and complementary



- 35 -
strengtlhentng ol Ilie Gambin's nadministrutive and policy-making machinery
vwi] he requlred for the program to be implemented successfully.
I11i. The Economic Recovery  'rogrnm ans a basis for a SAL was reviewed
by  nin iDA/0DA Joint misiIon  In November  1985 and a joint  IDA/ODA/ADF
appraisal of the SAI. wan carried otit In February 1986.  Negotiations were
held  In Wsinglliiton  lrom July  28,  1986 to August  1, 1986.   The Gambian
Government delegition was headed by The lHonorable S.S. Sissy, Minister of
Finance and Trade, who submitted to The Association the Government's Letter
of I)evelopment Policy dated August 1, 1986, whIch forms the busis for this
operation (Annex IV).  There in no separate Staff Appraisal Report for the
credit. Sijpplementary data appear in Annex TII.
B. The Proposed Financing
Ill.      The Government's structural adjustment program would be supported
by a proposed Development Credit of US$5 million, a proposed Special
Facility for Africa (SFA) Credit of US$11.5 million on standard IDA terms,
and a Special Joint Financing (SJF) non-reimbursable contribution of
£3 million sterling (about US$4.5 million equivalent) by the United
Kingdom. Part of the SFA Credit may be offset by a possible Special Joint
Financing contribution of up to SDR 2.6 million (about US$3 million equiva-
lent) by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The IDA, SFA and U.K. SJF credits
and contributions would be administered by the Association. A Development
Credit of F.U.A. 10 million (approximately US$9 million) would also be made
available by the African Development Fund, to cofinance the operation. The
proposed credits and grants would amount to about US$30 million equivalent,
of which US$17 million would be made available immediately after credit
effectiveness.   The remaining US$13 million would be released after the
Government has made significant and satisfactory progress in implementing
the structural adjustment program, notably in completing the specific
actions described in paragraph 118 below. The proposed credits and grants
are expected to be disbursed over the 15-month period ending about December
1987.  They would finance about 20% of The Gambia's imports of goods over
the period.
112.      In meeting the gross external capital requirements of the coun-
try, the proposed credits and grant would be complemented by IMF drawings
and other project and non-project financing. Among the latter, the United
Kingdom has committed UKE5.5 million (about US$7.7 sillion) in balance-of-
payments support to The Gambia for the period October 19B5-June 1987, the
EEC is providing ECUS million (about US$4 million) in STABEX compensation,
and the Netherlands Government has approved balance of payments support
grants of DG1O million (about US$3 million) for the period in question.
113.      In preparing the program to be supported by the proposed credits
and grant, IDA staff have consulted extensively with the IMF staff and the
donor community, particularly those donors involved in balance-of-payments
support. These aid coordination efforts have helped to ensure consistency
and complementarity in the policy content of structural-adjustment-type
operations supported by the donor community.
114.      The action program described in the following paragraphs reflects
the agreements reached with the Government as to the key policies needed to



- 36 -
stimulate privnte Initiative nod to expand output in the productive sec-
tors, particularly agriculture, and the central management reforms required
tc) reduce the scope nnd Increase the efficiency of the public sector.  A
detailed listi olf reform measures planned under the ERP is presented in
matrix  form  in Annex V, which contains  an implementation schedule nnd
Identiflesi those nctlon[i  to be monitored during credit supervision.
C. Monltorable Actions
ll5.      'I'he fallowing .actions have already been taken by the Government
tnder the propoHed program:
(a)  introduction of a flexible syttem of exchange rate determination
(Interbank market) (parns. 49-50);
(b)  decontrol of the consumer price of rice and privatization  of
commercial rice importation (para. 62);
(c)  adoption  of a system of pre-planting announcement of producer
prices beginninp with the 1985/86 crop year and the following
increases: 11)0% for groundnuts; 65Z for paddy rice; and 30Z for
cotton; for 1986187, a further increase of 45% for groundnuts has
been announced prior to planting (para. 58);
(d)  Implementation of a trial groundnut seed exchange/reserve scheme,
during the 1985/86 crop season (para. 66);
(e)  announcement of decontrol of retail fertilizer prices and liber-
alization of fertilizer distribution and sales to private traders
of fertilizers received as a government-grant (para. 64);
(f)  elimination of 1ish export taxes (para. 76);
(g)  laying-off of about 2,300 temporary and non-established govern-
ment workers and abolition of about 400 vacant posts during
1985/86 (para. 37);
(h)  preparation of a consolidated list of all temporary and daily-
paid workers employed by Government (para. 37);
(i)  preparation of a satisfactory 19B6/87 public investme t program
(para. 43);
(j)  adoption of a multi-year program of tariff adjustments to ensure
financial self-sufficiency for key parastatals (GUC and (GPTC))
and institution of a mechanism for the automatic pass-through of
exchange rate fluctuations for all public enterprises subject to
tariff controls and other administered prices (paras. 34, 50);
(k)  adoption  of a  moratorium  on  the  creation of new parastatal
enterprises (para. 31) effective January 1, 1986, except as
agreed with IDA;



- 37 -
(1)  adoption of a moratorium on government loan guarantees to public
or private enterprisen (para. 48) effective January 1, 1986,
except as agreed with IDA;
(m) establishment of an NIB task force to prepare an overall parapub-
lic sector rational ization strategy and detailed divestiture plan
(para. 31); and
(n) initiation of vwork on performance contracts for the GPCB, GUC and
GPA (para. 13); and
(o)  announcement of a reduction of at least 14% in the established
civil service for 1986/87. comprising the elimination of 750
vacant post's, and the retrenchment of 750 workers (para. 37).
116.      During negotiations,  the following commitments  and  agreements
were obtained:
(a) a commitment by Government to establish on January 1, 1987 a
government-held m;naged fund for all government-guaranteed GCDB
loans outstanding (para. 52);
(b) agreement on TOR for a comprehensive study of agricultural credit
(para. 68);
(c) a zommitment by Government: (i) to initiate updated economic and
financial feasibility studies of the proposed FPMC project, and
(ii) not to proceed with the venture until majority private
equity investment in the company has been secured (paras. 32,
77); and
Cd) agreement on the design of a longitudinal research project to
study household income and consumption patterns in selected rural
and urban areas in order to monitor the economic and social
impact of the ERP program (para. 100).
117.      During negotiations, agreement was also reached that disbursement
of the second tranche would be contingent upon the Government making
significant and satisfactory progress in implementing the structural
adjustment program, notably in completing the following actions in a manner
satisfactory to the Association:
(a) preparation of a multi-year administrative reform program for the
government service as described in para. 38, and full implementa-
tion of the 1986/87 retrenchments announced July 1, 1986;
(b) agreement with IDA on an action plan for reform of the system of
agricultural credit (para. 68);
(c) agreement with the Association on a groundnut producer pricing
policy and marketing arrangements with a view to effecting a
sharp reduction in potential budgetary transfers to the GPMB
during 1987188 and essentially eliminating these in subsequent
years (para. 60);



- 38 -
(d)  Cabinet adoptian of a revised Development Act, as described in
para. 73;
(e)  review of  the administrative  feasibility  of a duty drawback
scheme for exporters, as described in para. 73;
(f)  establishment  of  a  CCDB  managed  fund  for  all  government-
guaranteed GCDB loans as described in para. 52;
(g) completion of a detailed plan for divestiture and rationalization
of the parapublic sector (para. 31) and signature of performance
contracts with GPMB, GUC and CPA as described in para. 33; and
(h) preparation of a revised 3-year rolling public investment plan
agreed with IDA, ODA and the ADF for the period FY1986/87-88/89,
as described in para. 44.
118.      The Government has established an interministerial coordinating
comnitteL to monitor the implementation of the ERP and the above SAL
conditions.  The committee is co-chaired by the Permanent Secretaries of
the Ministries of Finance and Trade (MFT) and of Economic Planning and
Industrial Development (MEPID) and comprises the Permanent Secretaries of
other key agencies involved in the execution of the program, notably the
Ministries of Agriculture, Works, and Fisheries, as well as the Central
Bank, the GPMB and the National Investment Board. The coordinating commit-
tee meets monthly to review progress and will make quarterly reports to the
Association.
119.      To strengthen The Gambia's weak administrative capacity, techni-
cal assistance arrangements have been made at all of the key implementing
agencies.  A recently-initiated USAID project  is financing a long-term
economic policy adviser plus short-term consultant assistance for the
Finance Ministry and the U.K. ODA is financing an experienced individual as
Accountant General; a long-standing UNDP technical assistance project at
the Planning Ministry is being expanded to include macro-economic policy
advisors who will be able to assist with implementation of the ERP; under
an IDA SPPF, consultant assistance is being provided to the NIB for the
development of parastatal performance contracts and a parastatal divesti-
ture strategy; the U.K. Government is financing consultant assistance for
the audit and restructuring of the civil sorvice; the IMF is currently
financing three long-term advisors at the Central Bank, and the Bank of
England has recently seconded one of its senior staff to serve as General
Manager of the Central Bank of The Gambia, beginning in June 1986. Final-
ly, to help monitor the economic and social impact of the ER? program and
to guide overall macroeconomic policy, the Government recently requested
the Bank to second a staff member to serve as an adviser to the President
under the special technical assistance program for IDA-only countries; this
request has been approved by Bank management and we are currently seeking a
qualified individual.
D. Coordination with the IMP
120.      At all stages, there has been close collaboration between IDA and
TMF staff. While the Fund and IDA staff support jointly all the elements



- 39 -
of the Government program, the Fund staff was primarily responsible for
advising the Government on the exchange rate adjustment and pricing policy
reforms, public finance management, credit policy and external debt manage-
ment.  The Fund fLilly supports the structural adjustment measures worked
out by the Government with the assistance of the Association.  There is
also close coordination between the IMF and the Bank with other donors,
especially the U.K., in the provision of technical assistance, the reform
of the civil service and by other operations in support of the program.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
121.      The  proceeds  of  the  proposed  credits  and  contributions
(US$30 million in total) would be used exclusively for the financing of the
foreign exchange cost of eligible imports.   Procurement procedures have
been designed to permit rapid use of the funds while ensuring efficiency
and accountability in the process.  Except for a few exclusions such as
luxury goods and defense items, any imports would be eligible for financing
provided they were paid for after April 1, 1986, the date by which the
interbank  market  was  functioning  effectively.   Petroleum  products  are
included because petroleum shortages have been a major constraint to the
expansion of output in the productive and transport sectors.  Imports of
petroleum and food items would not exceed US$7.5 million and US$14 million,
respectively,  of  total disbursements under  the proposed credits.   The
import and distribution of goods would be in accordance with normal commer-
cial channels, which are acceptable. Direct imports by Government would
follow public procurement regulations, which call for international compet-
itive bidding for amounts exceeding US$250,000 equivalent and three price
quotations for purchases under US$250,000. Imports of goods procured under
contracts costing less than US$5,000 equivalent would not be financed under
the SAL. Goods would be sold to the final users at prices that reflected
the international prices of the goods, plus applicable customs duties and
taxes. The Customs Service will conduct spot checks (ph5sical examination)
of private goods imports financed under the proposed Credits and will
physically inspect all government imports financed by the proposed Credits.
122.      To facilitate disbursement and procurement, two special accounts
would be established at the Standard Chartered Bank (U.K.), one for the IDA
Credit,  and one  for  the SFA Credit  and SJF contribution.   At credit
effectiveness, an initial depoeit of up to a total of US$8 million would be
made into the respective accounts.  These accounts would be replenished
regularly up to the limit of the First Tranche of US$L7 million, as
described below.   Replenishments would be made  on the basis of fully
documented reimbursement applications for amounts in excess of US$200,000
and on the basis of statements of expenditures under that amount.  The
Central Bank would indicate on the statements of expenditures the nature
and origin of the goods, as well as the payment date and would maintain all
relevant supporting documentation (invoices, customs declarations and
evidence of payment)  for review by supervision missions.   Expenditures
covered by the IDA Credit would be in accordance with normal IDA rules,
while expenditures covered by the SFA Credit and SJF contribution would be
in accordance with the resolution establishing the Special Facility for
Africa.



- 40 -
123.      The  Government's  ERP Monitoring Committee would  have  overnll
responsibility  for the mobilization and use  of  the external  financial
assistance. A technical subgroup of the Committee, with representatives of
the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance and Trade, would prepare and
certify withdrawal applications, which would be signed by the Minister of
Finance and Trade or his representative.  The technical subgroup would, in
particular, review import declarations to verify those eligible for financ-
ing. This group would also be responsible for vetting import declarations
for goods to be financed under tied bilateral credits or by other
multilateral donors.  The proceeds of the proposed credits and contribu-
tiOIis would be disbursed in two tranches as follows:
(a) a first tranche of US$17 million composed of US$3.0 million from
the IDA credit, US$6.5 million from the SFA credit, the entire
US$4.5 million equivalent of the U.K. SJF contribution, and
US$3 million of the MAF cofinancing would be available immedi-
ately upon effectiveness of the respective agreements (expected
in August/September 1986);
(b) a second tranche of US$13 million composed of the balance of
funds In the IDA credit, SFA credit and ADF cofinancing would be
made available in mid-19B7 after a review of performance under
the program and provided the conditions stipulated in para. 88
above have been fulfilled.
124.      Local currency counterpart funds generated by the sale of foreign
exchange provided by the Credit wou'ld be deposited into a counterpart fund
account in the Central Bank in the name of the Ilinistry of Finance and
Trade.   Counterpart  funds would  be  channelled  through  the budget  and
subject to normal public finance expenditure controls.
G. Benefits and Risks
125.      The Government's adjustment program and the proposed SAL credit
are expected to increase the efficiency of public administration, raise
average returns on public investment and improve the performance of public
enterprises.   The program will also help promote a recovery of output
growth, particularly in agriculture, and improve real incomes for the rural
population, which constitutes the majority of Cambians. Fundamentally, the
adjustment program would lower the claim of the public sector on overall
resources and create greater opportunities for private agents in the
economy. The move to a flexible exchange rate and related price adjustments
are expected to produce an improvement in the current account, by reducing
the demand for imports and improving the incentives for export production
and efficient import substituting activities. Without the reform program,
balance-of-payments and fiscal imbalances would continue to worsen, leading
inter alia to an intolerable accumulation of external arrears and the
likely eventual cessation of all disbursements to The Gambia, and the
prospect of a significant decline in real per capita incomes. Accelerated
economic deterioration would not merely produce further hardship for the
Gambian population and a waste of human potential and capital investments;
In the particular circumstances of The Gambia, it would pose a fundamental
threat to the survival of the country's socio-political order.



- 41 -
126.      The Government clearly recognizes these dimensions of its current
economic problems and has shown a determination to take action, both in the
initial series of stabilizatlon measures It Implemented in 1984 (including
a devaluation) and the seriousness with which it has developed and begun
implementing the comprehensive ERP in recent months. The political leader-
ship is openly committed to the program and the President, in parttcular,
hIas; been effective tn communicnting to the population the Iustification for
reforms and the need for all groups to make short-term sacrifices in
pursuit of longer-term national benefits.   Nonetheless,  there are major
risks associated with implementation of a program as comprehensive and
ambitious as the ERP.  Principal among these is the possibility that even
with a strong government commitment to reform, The Gambia's weak adminis-
trative capacity may result  in implementation delays.   As noted above,
hiowever, ongoing technical assistance efforts at most of the key economic
policy agenc-les should reinforce the Government's ability to elaborate and
implement the policy reforms called for under the ERP.
127.     It should be underlined that during this period,  the challenge
for the Government is not Just to implement the policies described here but
also  to prepare  the next phase of the adjustment  program.   This will
involve inter alia assuring that the many studies being started under the
program in cooperation with IDA are completed satisfactorily, evaluating
their recommendations, and developing policy proposals. This will require
a substantial Input of staff time, in terms of supervision, sector work and
continued policy dialogue, and is being reflected in our planning for FY87
and FY88.
128.      A second risk is associated with the degree to which the program
relies upon a recovery of groundnut production for its short-term growth
and balance of payments benefits. Although a recovery of marketed ground-
nut production from the current level of about 50,000 tons to a level
closer to the average levels achieved ln the past (105,000-110,000 tons) is
the most promising way to achieve a rapid expansion of aggregate output and
exports In The Gambia, the success of this strategy is vulnerable to two
major exogenous factors--world price fluctuations and poor rainfall.
However, for the short-to-medium term, The Gambia has no good alternative
to the expansion of groundnut production in order to maximize exports.
Over the long-term, the ERP and SAL programs will, of course, help reduce
this vulnerability by promoting the diversification of The Gambia's produc-
tive base.
129.      Finally, there are political risks associated with the ERP and
SAL programs, as the Government is introducing major economic policy
adjustments at a relatively accelerated rate. The direction of the program
as a whole, moreover, is likely to affect the urban population particularly
adversely, in that the public sector rationalization program will contrib-
ute to unemployment and the exchange rate depreciation and other consumer
price adjustments will hurt urban consumers relatively more than the
farming population.    The  fact that there was a coup attempt in  1981
suggests that the potential for urban unrest cannot be dismissed. Even in
the absence of overt unrest, indications of growing political resistance to
the program over time may undermine the Government's commitment to pursue
the ERP and SAL reforms as forcefully as it is currently doing.  These
risks are to some extent offset by the fact that the Government is highly



- 42 -
sensitive to them and has adopted a strategy of public campaigning to
popularize the program and its medium-term benefits. Perhaps most impor-
tant, however, the 1981 instability is now widely perceived in The Gambia
as having seriously jeopardized the country's existence as a sovereign
nation, and the Government's current strong efforts to redress the economy
appear to be supported fairly widely by the Gambian people as necessary for
the country's political survival.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE GAMBIA
130.      To date, the Bank Group has extended  twelve credits to The
Gambia, totalling US$62.1 million.  '.f these, four were in the transport
sector, three in agriculture sector and one each in tourism, education,
rural and urban enterprises, energy and urban development. Project imple-
mentation has, in general, been satisfactory as far as the execution of
physical  targets  is concerned.   Disbursement performance has also been
reasonably good and compares well with other countries in West Africa.
Institution building, however, has lagged behind, due to a dearth of
skilled personnel in most agencies. The situation has improved somewhat in
the last five years, as IDA projects are being increasingly designed with
objectives better adapted to the existing manpower constraints in the
country and to improving manpower development.   Our policy dialogue was
minimal in the 1970s and, although it progressively developed, it remained
project oriented, with the IMF being the only institution conducting a
macroeconomic dialogue. This, too, has changed as our lending has become
Increasingly policy-based. Projects approved in FY84 (the Second Agricul-
tural Development and the Urban Management and Development Projects) and in
FY86 (the Second Highway Maintenance Project) addressed major sectoral
policy issues.
131.      The proposed Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL) is, of course, a
major step in this direction.  Given the structural nature of The Gambia's
problems, however, the adjustment effort will have to be sustained over a
number of years and the country will face a need for balance-of-payments
support for the foreseeable future.  We therefore envisage focusing our
lending for the next several years on support for the Government's recovery
effort with a series of SAL operations. At present, a second SAL is being
planned to follow the present operation.
132.      As a complement to this structural adjustment lending, we are
planning a limited number of other projects in the key productive sectors
to address institutional and other constraints and enable fuller realiza-
tion of the macroeconomic impact of the Government's policy reforms.
133.      Agriculture.   Improving  the  performance  of  the  agricultural
sector is critical for sustained economic growth in The Gambia.  Major
policy issues (particularly in the areas of agricultural credit and pricing
policy) are being addressed by the Government's ERP and the proposed SAL.
The serious weakness of institutions in the agricultural sector is perhaps
the most important constraint at present, and this institution-building
requires  more  sustained  assistance.   The  oagoing  IDA-supported  Second
Agricultural Development Project (expected to run through FY91) provides a



- 43 -
good vehicle for continued efforts to strengthen the agricultural extension
system, reorganize the Ministry of Agriculture, and improve the systems of
seed multiplication and distribution.
134.      Small-Scale Enterprises.   Prospects appear reansonably good for
the development of resource-based processing activities, construction,
fisheries, and trade. To assist the Government in formulating a program of
action for the small-scale enterprise sector, we have recently completed a
private Rector development review. Issues identified in the study will be
addressed by the proposed Second IDF project which is aimed at increasing
the efficiency of finanicial intermediation in The Gambia, further improving
the overall business climate (principally through tax reform), and provid-
ing selective support to small-scale entrepreneurs. A major element of the
project is also technical assistance to support the financial and organiza-
tional restructuring of the Gambia Commercial and Development Bank (GCDB),
the largest commercial bank and only term-lending instltution in the
country.
135.      Health and Population.   Improvements in the health status and
education of the Gambian population are critical for the full utilization
of  the  country's human  resources.   Although  the  Government  has  taken
important initiatives to improve the country's health situation, progress
in reducing morbidity, mortality and fertility rates has been discouraging-
ly slow.  The country's widespread poverty and illiteracy are important
constraints to an effective health care delivery system. However, a large
part of the problem also stems from the incapacity of the system to finance
recurrent costs and from shortcomings in the core infrastructure of the
services delivery system. The proposed Population and Health project will
asslst with financing and policy reforms (through the introduction of cost
recovery mechanisms) In meeting short-term recurrent cost problems, and
will support selected long-term investments in manpower development,
communications, infrastructure and analytical capacity.  The project will
also help strengthen family planning services in The Gambia and assist the
Government in developing a comprehensive family planning policy.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
136.      1 am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
137.      1 am also satisfied that the proposed African Facility Credit
would comply with Resolution No. IDA 85-1 adopted on May 21, 1985, by the
Executive Directors of the Association.
138.      I am also satisfied that the proposed Special Joint Financing
Administration Agreement for the non-reimbursable contribution from the
United Kingdom would comply with the agreement between the Government of
the United Kingdom and the Association for cooperation in the Cofinancing
of Programs of the Special Facility for Sub-Sahara Africa dated September
5, 19B5.



- 44 -
139.      1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit and the proposed African Facility Credit and that the
Association would act as Administrator of the proposed Special Joint
Financing non-reimbursable contribution from the United Kingdom.
B. Conable
President
Attachments
August __, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-45-
ANNEX I
T ALe  I  ra-iage 1 Fof 6
CAtNBA. "wI               - SOCIAL INDI    fh 54Th  lm- T
Wm$aNS. TN1                              *UPKUNCI MOPNE (U 1047E0 AVKRIAJ2) la.
NoIT                        tIPS?T UCINT LUTWIATK2 AL
ICKNT            lADW INCOSE allICA          61008.  ala
19aok       3l9 l  gsTig*tIk.           SOH llr SA0MAR          ANRICA h. Ur :I"ARA
ass nMma aQ. m)
TOTAL                                   11.1         11.3         11.1
UAIILITUIAL                              3            1.9          4.1
I_  Mg CWITa (IU0                                        .          19.0 D11D.5                                     batS8
SsmuI CumunTIu nr cAPIT
(I5LOGRANS 01 OIL £1831VALNUI)          14.0        fl.o          u.U                  2z.]                      Sol.%
IUUATIO   aD VITAL STATICS
POFULATIOS.Nl-fTthA (1OUSAINS)         114.f        44 1.0      v.9.
13545 5OrilulATIO  (I Ulf TOTALI        11.4         39.0         30.0                20.1                        11 
POPULATION RuOJECTIONS
POPOLATION INI rtA  2000 (HILL)                                  l.l
RTATIONARY  OPrltATION (NUILL)                                  1.2
POPULATION NCINUZ                                                I.
PIIIATIOW  SuASn
35o !I. Vi.                           11.1        41.1          1.1                32.2                        051.
PUS 11. KM. hORS. LAND              101.9        119.1        56.6                112.1                       124.D
POPULATION AGt ST31Jflh  IX)
s-Ia  Ws                            42.?          03.9        '1.4                *4.0                         45.4
1s5-   Is                            14.2         11.1         11.2                 )0.5                        18.3
h$ AND A4O3!                          2.9           2.1          2.1                 2.9                         2.1
vurULTIN UWU RATr (t1
rOTAL                                  1.2          ..          3.4         .t       l                           2.9
UUbD                                  2.5           7.1         4.3                  4.4                         5.1
cmSUD  wirs SATE (REa 1NV53             40.3         45.1         49.0                41.2                        .1.0
CUS  14T*  BAM  (PS n10)                29.2         24.8         22.7                17.6                         13.0
CODES ROUODUCTIION 6tAT                  2.0          3.1          3.2                 3.3                          3.2
FAKLY FLA1191100
ACFlTOSS. AIIHINML (THOU)              ..           ..0
USERS (X OF AID           )            ..          ..            1.0                 3.3                         6.4
IroK Of rFeO   MoO. re cAPITA
(1949-71-100)                          101.0         96.0         02.0                61.3                        62.9
P35 CArITa SUPPLY OF
caLOtls (I or  IfIDtRi*EW!           309.0       9s.0          34.0                 51.7                        9U5.
PRtMINS (C(ASi  PER  DAY)            63.0         54.0         S.0                  58.9                        35.4
OF WICK ANIMAL APOD PULSE            13.0         12.0         13.0 it             18.7                        8t.5
CI.ILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH UATE            52.9         52.3         43.3                23.1                         IA.6
mLALTS
LIFt UhUcT. AT 31N7  YEASE)             31.1         32.3          6.O                417.5                       52.a
INFANt  lDT.  ATE (Ptr  T1ous2)       122.0        236.1        200.0                119.5                       108.1
ACLIES TO SAFI lUTRE (olrQ)
TOTAL                                              1.0                              21.1                        41.6
iliuS                                  ..          7.0          55.5 Id             63.5                        6Z.5
RumaL                                  ..           2.0          ..                 19.3                        35.aI
ACCCSS TO EUCETA DIuSPOSA
OF OF  OULTtIO)
TOTAL                                  .            ..           ..                 26.5                         26.9
uIaS                                   *-           .            .                   5.                         51.1
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..                 20.e                        20.7
PorUATroO rMO PHYSICIANI            24930.0      23910.0       12310.u  a          2)7901.7                    II111.7
POP.  ER NLURSIN  PESON               1390.0 Ir  io1.o 0         770.0 r            3306.'                      za59.e
POP. FEB IIOSFITAL UV
TOTAL                               920.0           * *         t0.0 /.           1213.6                       961.1
URA                                  10.a  f        ..         170.0 7L             2.2r2                      168.5
RURL                               9210.0 7         ,.      1U90.0 la             1292.5                      U371.9
ADIISSIONS  Fit HOSPITAL lNED            ..           .            .                   ..                         27.2
7ZRA1e Sit OF HOU5IIHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..            .           ..                  ../h
UMIA"                                  ..          4.8 7W        ..
RURAL                                  ..           s.0 7i
AVUERA   NO. oI FELlOWS 13004
UtaH                                   ........
toenA.                                 ........
IructgCAa OF OIIELLINCS  11T4 PLLCT.
TOTAL                                  ..           ..            .
URAL                                   ..
RURaL                                  ..            .           -.                    .                          .



-46-
ANNEX I
Page 2-of 6
MAFIUKA. THe            - moCal. INDICATORS DATA SHEKT
OAlNIA. THE                            REPCECE GROuPS (bmLU4NT  AVEACh) f
MET                       (MOST NCoNr ESTtATE) /b
IRCCFT          LAW INCSI AttliCA          mmDDmA lC
s,a. mtl  £sTrtrTlATmb   SOUTtt oP SAHARA       AFRICA S. or FSAHA
DUCATION
AfIJITCE CENROLMENT RATtI
PErlAfti  TOTAL                     12.1        24.0        34.0                47.S                       9S 7
MMLF                    17.0         34.0        71.0               77.4                      100.0
FEMALE                   t.0         IS.U        41.                504.9                      33.2
SFCONODAYR  TOTAL                    3.0         *.0        14.0                13.5                       17.3
MALE                     4.0         12.0        22.0                17hA                      25.0
rWALE                    2.0         4.0         50.0                9.                        14.6
VOCATIONAL (1 OF or BO EV)              4 1        Lb 76.                         13.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
IlPRAR?                            31.0         27.0        23.0                A4.V                       41.1
SEOONDART                           W.0         20.0       It0                 27.4                       23.3
PiSSNCEE CABS/TOUSANSD POP             2.1         4.2         3.5 id              3.t                       20.8
10a1o RIIVES/THOUSAD PP                3.3       107.5       111.4                35.0           8L7i.
TV RECIVERS/THOMAND POP                ..          ..           ..                 2.                        20.
*EWuSPAPER "DLT GENOCAL
INTERES) CI ROtATION
PER T1OUSAtM POPULATION               A.f         ..          ..                  1. 33.4
CIKOW AN1AL ATTPUIAC/CAPITt                                                        0.5                       0.4
LtAWE NlC
rotaL LAB   P4ORCC (THOU)            193.0       227.0       331.0
EMAIZ (PERCENT)                     ".5         44.2        43.1                34.2                      3642
ACGICULTURE (PtZiCCNT)              65.0        32.0        Z.U0 ft             77.3 5                     N
INUSTRI (PeRCENT)                   7.0          9.0         9 0 WE             9.7                        16.3
PARTICIPATIOK RATE (PERcnT)
TOTSL                               51.7        S.7         47.3                39.3                       364.
nt                                  54.2        33.3        33.6 (d             50.9                      47.1
FINALE                              47.4        44.2        41.1 Id             26.1                       27.2
£0-SIO DEPEUMN I  RATIO                0.9         1.0         0                     1.3                      1.2
S'O SIS7TRMI,
sICamT SO OF HU6C110WLD
NIGCEST 20S OP bOhSENLDh
LN-ST 201 OP IOUOLDU                 ..
LOST 402 OF HOMUOLU                 ...
Pmen TAXK! CmS
ESTrIATED ASSoum LUoT IOW    hsCUI
L.DEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
U                                    ..          ..          ..                165.5                     5'0.7
ROUL                                 ..          ..         95.0 lc             95.0                     273.3
ESTUATO RELATIVE lOERov   [WNC
LECvL (168 PER CAPITA)
IBmS                                 ..          ..        165.0 Ia            112.1                      343.6
I.L.                                                        90.0                4 67.6                   201.1
ISTmAns0 POP. KmOWe AmLoTf
POWEC INCOUS LEVEL (2)
UILSMI                                                                          36 6
UgL                                             ..' 100                       61B
NOT AVAILAUX
0OT APPLICALE
NfOT * S
s   The grLup aeregue tore aeb Indicutor are populeciorwa ightsd sriCluatic mass.  Cus rugs of cantulme g
swamg the lndlcotare depends an  allabtiltcy of data and ls not tnitots.
lb  0U.1e. othevwels  noted. "Dats tor 196"r refer to any year beweem 1939 sad 161; "Date for 191J" betwrsn
3969 and 1971; mad data toa  "Mot Retont Etimte" batsmen 1931 aod 1963.
/c   1977;  Id 19i0; -I/ 1970:  It 19621 j  5974:  fb 1973;  n1 1594.
JUNE. 1983



-47-                                 ANNEX I
Pge 3 o f 6
DERNMON5 OF KOCIAL INMICAlOES
Maims  lthough ite dat mJsui finn minima gwllypddhamt attbrinttimi ad nulmaie. it uhouhW aimbe noted tha tlaIh mayou tie bmaemuamlly
comparble bhnuwa cie lack of aandaoduad dlauon and co|mm  uad by diUsent counmna ut coaling lh data Tlwe mdna ar. noehelekes, umtful to
doicnbr orde    mag_It, ndetiest. tsa. and diarcam  nm   mwajr d_&iem  haiwn uomatna
llTh  efeirnogupa amIr 11) he mwat cottory ump of the uject ousin,w anrd (23 a euntry grup with somehat highr average imoat itan the comnry
group t hbe nc  ountry tempt cfr116  Inco   ilE sxpursomp I  -Madde_l         Noeh Afca and Middleal-ir acho hecaush    at mfongr
aco-cuthural aflmill  In h enc °m g  detaste ac  * am pop a wbuitd  ineth  mnam oew ch indiar amd ln only w   inanty
fd the comatrm is a group hen doaL rer sthm slmaor Sim di coverag comm amg iS iAicators depeda on the avalebilaiV of1 dais amd lb nou umform.
cauti uaui ue eaictid in misting avrpap a one indcator to maao  Tm average ame only awful ma companga the walur of oae ilntlori at  a ti*t amngso
the ccuoirt and trefemno groups
AREA (thousand sq kmi)                                             Crude Ult Rate (pee heussNd)- Numbhcr ol live birhs itn the year
rToel - Total surface area compnssng land area and inland waters,  per thousand of mid-year population; 19O. 1970. and 19H13 data
1960. 1970 and 1983 data                                           Crur DeOtb Rare pewr thausuadj--Number of deaths in the vear
Agseiharal  Esimate of agricultural area used temporarily or       per thousand of mid-year populauon; 1961). 1970M and 1983 data
permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Crass Repnauefma Rate-Avcragc number of daughtcrs a woman
lie fallow. 1960, 1970 and 1912 data                               will bear in her normal reproductive penod if she expenences
present a5e-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS) -GNP per capita estimatcs at current          in 1960. 1970, and 19R3.
market pnmcs. calculated by sme converston nmthod as World         Fvdy Pai-Acrepaarn. dmul (fhowaoad-l--Anual num-
Bank AdUs I19N1-83 basis); 1983 data.                              ber ofaceptors of birth-conrol dcviccs under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTEON  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                     family planning program
consumption of commercial pnrmary energ  (coal and lignite.        FuIp PIauuIag-Uaers (parent atUmarre  we.weu--The perccn
petroleum, naturIl gas and hydro-. nuckar and geothermal elec-      age or mrried women ofchild-beanng age who are practicing or
tncaitv in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whoew husbands are practicing any form of conLraception. Women
1982 data                                                          of child-beanng age are generally tumen aged I )-49. although lor
somc countrics contracptive usage Is meaiured For othet age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                     roups.
rndalPapuluaion. Mid-Yer factsaud)-As tf July 1; 1960. 1970.       FOOD AND NUTRIrION
and 3953 data.
Urba  Poplauo  (pecentof aal)- Rato ofurba  to  otal leAr: of Ir.d Predweriao Per Capit (1969A-71 - 610j- Index of per
Urban Poillstio n'e (pereer of  wal)-- Ratio of urban to total     capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas my affect compw-  excludes animal iced and seed  f agriculture. Food commodites
ability of data among countnres 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.         include pmary comnmodttes (e.g. sugarcane instead of suart
Populna PRsvjecai                                                   which are edible and contaim nutnents (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popu/nrion In year 20MPh-The projection of population for -00.     excluded) they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on     vegetabes, frruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets, livesiock, and
total populatton by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates. and  livestock products Aggregte production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980, these pramneters    on national averagc producer pnce weights: 1961-65, 1970. and
were projcted at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized    1912 data.
asumpiions until the population became stationary.                   eCapr C's. Suppy efCailories (pareem  of requ rus)- -Comput-
,Statonnry pupulation-Is one in which agc- and sxt-specific mor-   ed from. calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in countrv
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement lvel   tion, imports lss exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
Inet reproduction rate- 1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds For tise in agriculture. qunutities used in
constant and equal to the death rare, the age structure is also     food processing, and losss in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population   estimated by FAO based on physiological need,, rf  normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristic of  and health considering environmental temperatumr body weights,
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fernlity  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percaEt for
rate to replacenment lvel,                                         waste at household kvel; 1961, 1970 nd 1982 data.
Populann IMonmenrurn  Is the tendency for population growth to     Per Cpite Supply of Pre-oiea (rams per days - Protein contcnt of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of I-ood per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is, even after the net reproduction rae has reached  as above Requirements for all countries established hy USDA
unity The momentum of a populatiot in the year r is measured as    provide for minimum allowances ol' 60 granis ofMtotal protein per
a ratio of the ultimate sstatonary population to the population in  day and 20 grants of animal and pulse protetn. uf which tO grams
the ycar t. given thre assumption thalt fertility renains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 19815 data.                         75 grams of total protei and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Pop/aion Dessimy                                                   average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqAn.-Mid-year population per square kilometer  100 hee-       Supply; 1961. 1970 and 19J2 data
tars) of total area. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                    Per CaopitParreiu Supplyr F     ni 4s niuo dPhse-Protein supply
Per sq.km  agrirulrural land-Computed as above for agrietulural    of food derived from aninitls and pulses in grams perdav. 1961-65.
land only, 1960. 1970. and 1982 d[ata                               1970 and 19T7 data.
PopuAwtis  4ge Strnrere (prreeurj-Children (0-14 years). work-     CMd (ages 1-t) Death Rae (per tsAusmd) - Number of deaths 'of
migage (15-64 years). and retired (65 years andover)aspermentage   children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in Ltm  anie age
of mid-year populabon; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data                   group in a  wpven year For most developtag countries data denved
Population Grtnwth Rate rpeircenaD--teu-Annual growth rates of     from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 19X3 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197043.        HEALTH
Popuariou Growtrh Rate (perceuflr-arhmu-Annual growth rates         Life Erpeerawy o  Birth (yerws)- Numbec oi years a newborn
of urban population For 1950-60. 190-70, and 1970-83 dora.          infant would livr if prevailing patemns of mortality for all people



-48-                               ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at *he twa of of tu bknt wer to tuy the can  throughoul its life,  P`ga-ariora Ralaa   primarr. tad swcodmnr--Toial students en
l960. 1970 and I13 data,                                         rolled an pnmary and secondary levels dividd by nunshbrs of
Alq s Mawap Rate (pe shosammdD-NNumber of slants who die         teachen si ihe corsponding levels
before ruching one you of  e per thomand lie brths n a its
yar, 190, 1970 mnd 1913 dnta                                     CONStlM11TION
Aows - Sa  liNw (pinS of plp e)-UiaI. wham, asd                  Fmeqer Can (per uhasamd peadai- Passienger can com
wI-Number of people (total, urban, and rurl) with reaonabir    pns motor can seating lea than eight persons, excludes nmbul-
acr  to afe w5ta wipply (indluda tmaSed srface wvtm or          tances. hearn  and military vehicles
untmeatd but unconutaimad waer sch as tint from protected         adoi Re4mw (per thoaamdpepwa iwos--- All typre of recoivers
boehole. spnonpnd sas tary wll) as pIrmctao of thitr respec-     [or Tadi bromacasts to eneral public per thousand Of populatitoe.
ave populiatios. In an tibtrht saws a pubbw fountain or standpost  excludes un-lacensed receivers in countrws and in years whet,
locatad not nmo  than ZOO mowna   from a howusemy be csidered    registrxatmn of ratdio st was in effect, data fIn recenl years nusy
as being within reaonable see   of thal house In rural aras      not be comparshie since mt cousnitnes abolished licensing
reasnable asou  imtply tha the hourewtfe or neten of the              d          r
houwlbid do not love to sed  a d     kmoroi pnr Of the dity      IPrl}   B      (pr-T                TV mmvn for bFidrzw
in setclhong tde fnotlys haver toeds                             to general public per thousnd poulation, excludes unlicnsed TV
mAFetehing  thew E fanilys   UeS C   _~n,    recd                        in  countries  and  in  yesn   whcn   r istration   of TV   bets  was
Acews' ag tEr"ae OdlwaaJ (percen ofppasiaiwl arbim,              to elfect.
ad rnved-Number of people (total. urban. snd rural) served by
cxcrts dispsl - paecentags or their respecve populations.            W       C '_   {  r          ,a   l _)-Shw  the aurn
Excretc dispoal may include the colleton and dispoul. with cr    age  rwCultion of dauly goenml interet newvpaper," defiued as a
without treatmet, of human exceta and waste water by water-      penodirel pubicatcion devoted pnrmanly to rcording gneral news
borne systems or the ue of pit pnvie and similar installations   It toconsderd to be 'daily" if aappears at leut four times s week
ANpalureu per Phyidnu--Populstioa divided by number of prac-     Clwm.  Ammel Animadace pr Capitar p        ear- Based on the
tising physixans qualifid fromn a medil school at university level.  number of tickets sold dunng the year. including admissions to
Pbrpulau  pear IVNridW  Phrseu-l'bpiubition divided by number of  drive-in cinernas and mobile units
prwcticag male and ranLek grduate nurwes, astant nuns, LAR  FORCE
practcl nurse and nuning auslianes.
Abpiatt  per Hospil le--eall,  m,  ad rwal--lbpulation           Toma lab er Feet. (theuzadsi-EEcomweally active persons. to-
(total, urban, and rural) dinvid   by ilhir respective number Of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospta bed available m  public and private, geral and qpciriLd  studen i, etc., covenng population of all ages Definitions in
h;osptas and rehabilirante net  Hospit  are eusblishane          vaous counnee are not comparable. 1960. 1970 and 19113 data.
pemnently staged by at least o  phyican. Estabihment prov-       Feafr (p'ceanrl-Frnsale labor forc a peientege of total Labor
iding pnnapaily cusodial casm arc not induded. Rural hospitals,  fore.
however, include health and medical etmen not penianently staffed  Agrebwr lprrr.tla-LAbor forte in farming. roretiy. hunting
by a phyan (but by a medical assisunt nursc, sidwfc. etc.)       and fishing as prcentage of toul labor forte. 190. 1970 and 19W0
which olrer in-patient aommodtion and provide a limited range  data.
of nsical rawlities.                                             ls&swry (pereeuvi--Labor foire in mining. conLtructiDn. nianu-
Atlisoas per Hospitl ed-Total number of adsamsaons to or         factunng and clectnricy. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds          force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pa'rieiuim. Reac (perce.Dr"ecal, ak, aadfexms-Participiaon
HOUSING                                                          or activity rates arc computed as total, male, and femal labor frm
A-Me Sae of Houaeh     pt-  par   -arims,-,                     as peremtages of total, male and female population of all ages
adreurt-Ahouseholdcooaasssofagroupofmdivsduashwhoshare           respectively: 1960. 1970, and 1983 data. Thes arc bused on ILO's
iving quartr and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or    participation ratcs reflecting age-sex structure of the population, and
may not he incltuded in the houehold for statistiail purposes   long time trend. A few estimates are from national sourmcs
Aver..r Numser of Pers  per R             Rem-ceal mrchns. ad rural-  Econeoic Depeadvuy Ragi--Ratio ol population under I5. and
Average number of penosa per room is all urban, aid rural        65 and over, to the working ae population (thow aged 15-64)
occupied conventmioal dwellings. espectively Dwellings exclude
non-pennanent structures and unoupied pars.                      INCOME DlISTlBUTION
Percetge of DweSgs wask Elsteray-utal. mam, and rura--           Par rage of rTotal Drpesahk Men  (bot is cas ad kin d-
Conventional dwellings with electrcity in living qutr-ers as pereen-  Accruing to pementile groups of households ranked by total house.
Sagc oR total, urban, and rural dwellins respectively            hold income
EDUCATION                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjusted EAronwmud Raios                                         The following estimates are very approximate measures ol poveriy
Prermarn school - toal. molek ad fesnak-Gross total. male and    levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution
femaic enroUnent of ad ago at the pnmary kvel as percentages of  EsrtAed Abmte Paoermy laco  Lev l U1  per capliai-urban
respective pnmary school-age populations Whale many counines     ad rura--Absolute poverty incomne level is that income level
consider pritary school age to be 6-l1 years. other do not. The  below which a minimal nutriuionafiy adequatc diet plus cssential
differences in country pracu    in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable-
are reflected in the ratos given For smne countries with umvcrsal  Etiimred Relativ Pbhrery leow Levei r USS per capita)--urhon
education, gross enrotmcnt may exceed 100 percent since some     ad rval--iRural relative poverty income level is onc-third of
pupis are below or above the country's standard prnary-school    average per capita personal income of the country Urban level is
age.                                                             derived ri-m the rural level wilh adjustment for higher cost of
Secoanar) schorl - to.al mle anid femiale-Computed as above;     living in urban areas
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pn-  Estred Ppulario  Arh-low Albnre rIPwery ltamwa Level Ipfr-
mary instruction; provides general. vocational, or teacher Iraining  crear --arias ad rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
msWuctfons for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: corrspond-  who are -'absolute poor
ence courses are gencralUy excluded,
Vcanal Enraolhnrni lpercent sf rerrorvjd-Vocational 2nstitu-               Cnomparative Analysis and Data Division
tons include technial, industrial, or other programs which operate       Economic Analysis and Prn"ecuons Dcpartment
independently or as depanments of secondary institutions.                                 June 1985



-49-                                      ANIXI
r.ge 5 of b
R 1W)I c 1INICATOIS- TRE CAPlAU
COOSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1985                                        ANRNAL RATE OF CROWTH (%, Constant Pricas
115$ Nhs.                       1975-79 (Av.)            1979-84            1964
GNP aL Market Prices                   158             100               3.8                    1.9             -7.6
Gross Domestic Investment               34              21              21.8                   -7.6            -12.6
Grons Notional Saving5                   7              -1
Currant Account Balance                -36             -23
Exports of Goods, NUS                   87              52              11.5                   -1.7             11.7
Import, of Coods, HIS                  113             -72                .4                     .7             -1.0
UIT, Py*KNPLOVNBT AND PRoDUCTIVITY TN 1954t'
V-lur Added                Labor Porge                   V.A. Per Worker
S Hl-n -                  'Thou end                             __m              9
Agriculture                          54              78           232             70              231             39
Industry                             25              13            30              9              833            141
Services and Unallocated            117              59            69             21            1,696            286
Total / Average                196             100            331            100              592            100
CENTRAL OOVERNMEIT FINANCE                     D. Mn.                                      Percent of CDP
19T5 Al                          198  at                     1979 Al
Current Recelpte b.                             147                                23                          23
Current Expenditure                             150                                23                          21
Current Balance                                  -3                                -0                           2
Development Expenditure                         109                                17                          12
Overall Balance                                -112                               -17                         -10
19A0            1981             1982             1983             1984
(Millions of' Dlealas, Outstanding End-June)
rONEY. CRlEDIT AND PRICES
Money Supply                                  76               90              104              135              137
Bank Credit to Governmnt (net)                27               55               37               75               78
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 91               98              105              131              158
Bank Credit to Public entities                56               69               98              142              161
(Percentage or Index Numbera)
Money an % of GDP                           17.9             21.9             23.0             25.6             22.7
General Price Index (1980-1984)            100.0            108.0            116.9            127.7            147.6
Annual Percentage Change In:
General Price Index                          5.0              8.0              8.2              9.3             15.6
Bank Credit to Government (net)               -             103.7            -32.7            102.7             -4.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 -               7.7              7.1             24.8             20.6
Bank Credit to Public entities                -              23.2             42.0             44.9             13.4
a/ Fiscal year ending June 30th.
rSi Excluding 32 D. all. grants.



ANNEX I
Page 1, of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   IREKAIWNIS  EXPORTS (1982-R5 AVFRACE)
1982    1983   1981.   1985                                     (us$ MIA.)      %
Export. of Goods, NrS           100.3   105.6  107.0   81.9            Croundnuts                    22.3      86.8
Imports of Goods, NUS           142.3   111.7  135.9  112.8            Fimh and Plab Product.         1.0       7.0
Resource Cap                    -42.0   -26.1  -28.9  -30.9            All Otbhr Cood.                1.6       6.2
Daes tic Exports              77    TNU
Interest Payment. and                                                             a
Other Factor Payments (net)       -5.4    -9.1   -7.8   -8.2            Roexports -                  53.9
Private Transfer. (net)            3.0     2.6    2.4    3.6           Total Harchandise export.   79.6
balance on Currant Account      -44.3   -32.5  -34.3  -35.5            EXTMRNAL DEBT AS OF DECEMBER 31. 1984
- ~~~~~~ US~115 Him.
Direct Inventment                   .5     - .1    - .1   -0.0
Official Transfer. and Grant.   43.8    35.3   30.4   29.9             Public Debt, Inl. Guaranteed            264.7
PubFlic   & LT borrowing (net)   30.1    13.5   10.1    7.9            Non-Ouaranteed Private Debt
DLebureementm                 34.7    20.3   14.4   16.6            Total Outstanding and Disbursed         264.7
Amortization                   4.6      6.8    4.3  -10.7                                         b
Other Capital (net)             -46.9   -48.0  -20.0   -7.5             DUT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1984 -.
Chang  in Official Rserves    -16.8   -31.8  -13.9   -5.2               Public Debt, Incl. Guaranteed           1976
(net) (, - Increase)                                                lion-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding and Disbursed         19.6
Net Foreign Assets              -65.9   -92.0  -96.9  -69.1
(end June)
Petroleum  Imports               14.0    13.0   14.5   13.0            I1RD/IDA LENDINC AS OF MARCH 31  1986
=i_
Oustanding and Disbursed   -       3.2
Undiabursed                        21.9
Outatanding Inc. Undisbursed    3Ci
RATE OF EJxcHAWI
Aninual Averae                                 End Period
1951      1952       U83       195384     155                  June I16
USS 1.00 - Dalais           1.97       2.29      2.64       3.58      4.09                     7.0
/  Include. staff estimates of unrecorded reexports.
bi Excluding IMF payment.



-51-
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERArIONS IN THE GAMBIA *
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1986)
Amount (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                 (US$ million)
Number    Year       Borrower           Purpose                    IDA I/ Undisbursed 1/
Six credits fully disbursed                                         22.49
897-GM    i979      Republic of      HLghway Maintenance
The Gambia       Project                       5.00        0.47
1187-GM    1981      Republic of      Energy Project                 1.50       0.42
The Gambia
1266-GM    1982      Republic of      Second Banjul Port
The Gambia       Project                       6.50        2.09
1443-.GM    1984     Republic of      Urban Management and
The Gambia        Development                 11.50        9. 4
L476-GM    1984      Republic of      Second Agricultural
The Gambia      Development                    9.40        8.99
Total                         56.39      21.91
of which Ias been repaid    0.30
Total now held by IDA 21      56.09
Total undisbursed                        21.91
1/   Beginning with Credit 1187-GM, Credits shown here have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar
equivalent at the time of credit negotiations for the "IDA" amounts and the dollar
equivalents as oc March 31, 1986, for the "undisbursed" amounts
(! SDR - US$1.13827).
4/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
*    The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October Mt.



-52-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1986
Flscal Year             Obligor              Type of Business    Loan  Equity        Total
1983            Kombo Beach Hotel Ltd.         Tourism Hotel        2.9     -         2.9
Total Gross Comoitments
Less Cancellations,
Terminations, Repayments
and Sales
Total Commitments now
neld by IFC                                      2.9     -         2.9
Undisbursed Balance                                0.0     -         0.0



-53-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
THlE GAMBIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMFNTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I: TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(1)   Time taken to prepare the program:       8 months
(ii)   Initial discussions with IDA:            June 1985
(iii)   Pre-appraisal mission:                   November 1985
(iv)   Appraisal mission:                       February 1986
(v)   Negotiations:                            July 1986
(vi)   Planned date of effectiveness:           August/September 1986
SECTION II: SPECIAL IDA IMPLEMENTATION ACTION
None
SECTION III: SPECIAL CONDITIONS
During negotiations, it was agreed that disbursement of the second
tranche (US $ 13 million) would be contingent upon the Government
making significant and satisfactory progress in implementing the
structural adjustment program, notably in completing the following
actions in a manner satisfactory to the Association:
(a)  preparation of a multi-year administrative reform program for the
government service as described in para. 3B, and full implementa-
tion of the 1986/87 retrenchments announced July 1, 1986;
(b)  agreement with IDA on an action plan for reform of the systen of
agricultural credit (para. 68);
(c)  agreement with IDA on a groundnut producer pricing policy and
marketing arrangements with a view to effecting a sharp reduction
in potential budgetary transfers to the GPMB during 1987/88 and
essentially eliminating these in subsequent years (para 60);
(d)  Cabinet adoption of a revised Development Act, as described in
para. 73;
(e)  review of the administrative feasibility of a duty drawback
scheme for exporters, as described in para. 73;
(f)  establishment of a GCDB-managed fund for all govern-
ment-guaranteed GCDB loans as described in para. 52;



-54-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g) completion of a detailed plan for divestiture and rationalization
of the parapublic sector (para. 31) and signature of performance
contracts with GPMB, GUC and GPA as described in para. 33; and
(h) preparation of a revised three year rolling public investment
plan agreed with IDA, ODA and the AD? for the period FY
1986187-88/89, as described in para. 44.



- 55 -                         ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 21
August 1, 1986
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
INTRODUCTION
At the outset of its third decade of Independence, The Gambia's achieve-
ments in the eocio-political and economic fields are threatened by the
failure of the economy to realize its growth potential. In recognition of
the deep-rooted and persistent nature of the country's economic problems,
the Government last year launched a comprehensive Economic Recovery Program
(ERP) for the period 1985/86-1988/89, described in this Letter of
Development Policy. The ERP is a comprehensive action strategy for
overcoming the major imbalances in the economy over the short- and
medium-term and laying the basis for sustained growth over the longer term.
Over the initial two years (1986-87) the program is designed to achieve:
(a) financial and balance-of-payments stabilization;
(b) maximum short-term expansion of output;
'c) elimination of major exchange rate and price distortions;
(d) curtailment and rationalization of the overextended public
sector; and
(e) creation of a climate conducive to the longer-term growth of
the private sector.
The central longer-term objective of the ERP, which the Government realizes
will only be attainable over a period of years, is to promote sustained
economic growth by achieving a progressive alteration in the structure of
the economy. The direction of this structural adjustment will be to:
(a) diversify production and exports;
(b)  increase the degree of food self-sufficiency;
(c) bring the size and scope of the public sector into balance
with the productive base;
(d) improve public investment planning so as to increase its
productivity and ensure a proper balance with recurrent
public outlays; and
(e) reform the system of credit and financial intermediation to
support the growth and diversification of the private
sector.
The national philosophy of TESITO as an approach to development will remain
a guide to the Government's actions, based on our national principles and
practices of self-help, mutual aid and collective self-reliance, meaning



- 56 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 21
not only self-help In the field of production and enterprise but also
avoidance of dependence on Covernment provision of all goods and services,
and restraint in the use of public resources whether local funds or scarce
foreign exchange.
The Economic Recovery Program, aimed at reversal of The Gambia's economic
deterioration, was presented integrally at the London Donors' Conference in
September 19B5. The donors accepted the program as an important and
politically courageous set of policy adjustments. They also recognized
that for this program to succeed, substantial short-term balance of
payments support and a Paris Club rescheduling of The Gambia's external
debt are critically important, Since the London Conference, the Government
has continued discussions with the World Bank, the IMF, the British ODA,
and the African Development Bank and has further elaborated the adjustment
program into a time-bound and monitorable action program, enveloping seven
key areas. A detailed matrix of the actions to be taken is attached as
Annex I to this letter. The seven key areas are:
1)   exchange rate reform, monetary and credit policies, and
financial sector rehabilitation;
2)   agricultural policy;
3)   incentives for other productive sectors;
4)   public administration reform and fiscal policy;
5)   public enterprise reform;
6)   public investment programming; and
7)   management of external debt.
I.   EXCHANGE RATE, MONETARY AND CREDIT POLICIES, AND FINANCIAL SECTOR
REHABILITATION
A.   Exchange Rate Reform
the Government recognizes thie importance of a realistic exchange rate for
the efficient allocation of resources and, as one of the major elements of
the ERP, has implemented a fundamental reform of the exchange system.  In
place of the previous fixed exchange rate (pegged to the pound sterling),
the Government on January 20, 1986 introduced a flexible interbank market
system, under which the exchange rate of the dalasi has been permitted to
float freely. In support of this system, liberalized exchange control
procedures were also adopted, and commercial banks have been instructed to
make foreign exchange freely available to their customers without prior
approval from the Central Bank. To avoid undue pressures upon the new
system, the Government has established a monthly foreign currency budget
with pre-deterained and strictly limited public se.:tor foreign exchange
expenditures, giving priority to external debt service obligations.



- 57 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 21
Since the inception of the interbank system, the exchange rate has depreci-
ated significantly: it is currently D 11.20 per pound sterling, compared
with the pre-January 20, 1986 parity of D 5 per pound. The differential
between the parallel market rate and the interbank rate has been almost
completely eliminated; parallel market activity has declined dramatically;
and inflows of foreign exchange into the banking system have exhibited a
marked increase. Under the system, the exchange rate has been fairly
stable for the past several months. The Government intends to continue to
monitor carefully the evolution of the interbank system to ensure that the
process of exchange rate determination remains fully flexible and to ensure
that differentials between the interbank and parallel market continue to
remain nominal.
The Government also recognizes that an essential element accompanying a
flexible exchange rate system is a flexible pricing policy for key
commodities in the economy whose prices are Government-administered.
Accordingly, on four occasions since introduction of the new exchange
system, retail prices of petroleum products have been adjusted upwards (by
a total of 103 Z) in order to effect a pass-through of exchange rate
movements. Water. electricity, and public tranportation tariffs have
similarly been adjusted to reflect exchange rate changes. The Government
is comitted to reviewing these prices and tariffs on an ongoing basis and
making regular adjustments, as necessary, in light of future exchange rate
movements.
B.   Monetary and Credit Policies
Key supporting elements of the new exchange system are the adoption of a
prudent credit policy stance and domestic interest rate policies that
assure adequate returns to assets held in local currency form. As set
forth in detail in the Government's Memorandum of Economic Policies drawn
up following discussions with IMF staff, during 1986/87 the Government
intends to reduce significantly the net domestic assets of the banking
system and the stock of net credit to government. In addition, banking
system credit to the Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB), and to other
public enterprises will be limited strictly, in order to accommodate growth
in credit to the private sector. The Government has also taken steps to
ensure that comercial banks adhere to the credit ceilings established by
the Central Bank, which is reviewing the method of setting ceilings to take
adequate account of the deposit and reserve positions of each bank.
To increase the mobilization of financial resources within the banking
system and to promote a more rational system of credit allncation, the
Government has also adopted a flexible interest rate policy. In September
1985, interest rates on Central Bank advances were raised by an average of
7 percentage points and ceilings on commercial banks' deposit and lending
rates were abolished. In July 1986, the Central Bank introduced a tender
system for Treasury bills, with an initial offering of D 5 million which
realized a weighted average interest rate of 19.4 percent. Following the
tender, the levels of other administratively determined interest rates hawe
been adjusted. The Government intends to issue Treasury bills by tender on



- 5B -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 21
a regular basis so as to provide market-related incentives for increasing
domestic savings.
C.   Financial Sector Rehabilitation
Stabilizing and rationalizing the institutional base of the money and
credit system is an ongoing task that has assumed great urgency. The
Government recognizes that two of the country's major credit institutions,
the Gambia Cooperative Union (GCU) and the Gambia Commercial and
Development Bank (GCDB), are in serious need of financial and
organizational reforms. To this end, the Government in 1985 initiated
technical assistance to improve GCDB's management of its foreign operations
department. The Government is also committed to working with the World
Bank and the ADB on a comprehensive organizational and managerial reform
program for the GCDB. It is expected that by September 1986, technical
assistance for this purpose will be in place. In tandem with the
strengthening of the bank's operations, the Government has initiated a
comprehensive financial restructuring of the GCDB. As part of this effort,
the Government has:
(a) Increased the GCDB's authorized share capital from D 5 to
D50 million;
(b)  Opened GCDB's share capital to foreign (mainly development-
oriented institutions) and private domestic investors;
(c) Converted an earlier IDA credit of D6.4 million into Govern-
ment equity in the GCDB;
(d)  Converted D35 million of GCDB short- and medium-term credits
from the Central Bank into a long-term (15 years, inclusive
of a ten year moratorium) interest free, subordinated loan
to GCDB (thereby giving such amount the character of "quasi
equity" for the purpose of treatment in GCDB's accounts),
the interest on which is being paid by the Government.
As a final step in the financial restructuring, the Government will, on
January 1, 1987, transfer D 77 million in Government-guaranteed loans on
the GCDB's books to a "managed fund". The loans in the managed fund will
be repaid by the Government to the Central Bank. The GCDB will continue to
pursue loan collection on behalf of the Government and will receive a
commission on total amounts collected each month.
For the duration of the Economic Recovery Program, the Government will
cease to require or request GODB to grant any further loans or overdrafts.
Finally, the Governument intends to pursue policies to encourage commercial
banks other than the GCDB to develop term-lending activities.
With respect to the equally pressing need to restore the system of agricul-
tural credit in The Gambia, the Government with FAO assistance has initi-
ated a review of the banks and credit organizations involved in the



- 59 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 21
provision of agricultural credit. The Government has also requested World
Rank assistance in performing a comprehensive study of non-institutional
sources of credit in rural areas. The objective of these studies is to aid
the Government in reforming fundamentally the system of agricultural credit
by developing a balanced and viable system of competitive public and
private channels for credit provision to farmers.
Achieving a realistic exchange rate for the dalasi, reducing the growth of
domestic liquidity, decontrolling interest rates, strengthening the GCDB
and other institutions, and restoring debtor morality by collecting
outstanding loans will combine to enhance the attractlveness of the
financial assets issued by the Government and the private firms in The
Gambia. In the medium and longer term, this will return The Gambia to the
path of sound financial development and sustained economic growth. A major
Government objective is to increase the rate of domestic savings so that a
larger proportion of national development can be funded from domestic
resources. While the Government recognizes and appreciates that the
country will require net capital inflows from abroad for the forseeable
future, it is determined that an increasing share of national investment
should be generated from local savings. For this to occur, a dynamic
financial sector which mobilizes resources and directs them to the areas
with the highest returns is a necessity. The exchange rate reform, credit
policies, and strengthening of financial institutions outlined above are
directed towards this end.
II. AGRICULTURAL POLICY
Policies and actions to reverse the weak performance of the agricultural
sector are another critical element of the ERP. This sector accounts for a
third of GDP and about 85Z of domestic exports and will remain the
principal engine of growth for the forseeable future. The sector has
cons4Iterable potential, given: (1) the presence of under-utilized capacity
for short-term output expansion, and (2) the availability of land and water
resources which can be put to use in the future through efficient
investment. The growth rate of the sector has been disappointingly low
(less than 1X per annum) during the past decade, partly due to drought and
a depressed world market for groundnuts but partly also to the following
constraining factors:
(a) Inadequate and untimely supply of agricultural inputs -
seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, implements;
(b) Non-remunerative prices for agricultural products;
(c) Ineffective agricultural extension with limited linkage to
on-going agricultural research;
(d) Poor recovery rates in the agricultural credit system and
inadequacy of credit availability;
(e) Insufficient farm-tested technological packages; and



- 60 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 21
(f) Progressive degradation and deterioration of soil fertility
due to inadequate soil and range conservation measures.
The Government has been attempting to address, albeit partially, all the
above problems; most projects and programs during the past five years have
been directed at one or more of the above constraints. Although these
actions have started the transformation process, many additional actions
are needed and are being taken. These include the redesign of some ongoing
donor-financed projects to make them more responsive to the evolving needs
of The Gambia's agricultural sector. The agricultural policy component of
the ERP is driven by the following explicit objectives:
(a) To increase rainfed agricultural production of both food and
cash crops through better input supplies, appropriate
technical packages, adequacy of credit and remunerative
prices;
(b) To diversify the crop mix, including integration with
livestock;
(c) To increase foreign exchange earnings from groundnuts and
other crops (especially horticulture);
(d) To reduce and reverse the on-going deterioration of soil
fertility;
(e) To promote efficient irrigated farming in order to reduce,
as far as possible, dependence on rainfed agriculture; and
(f) To reduce the involvement of the public sector in those
activities which can be more efficiently performed by the
private sector.
Policies and Actions
Pricing Policy. The Government, under the ER?, has moved firmly to improve
the incentives for agricultural producers. For the 1985/86 season,
groundnut prices were increased by more than 100%, rice by 65% and cotton
by 30%. For the 1986/87 season, the Government has announced a further
increase of about 45% in the groundnut producer price. In order to provide
clear incentives to farmers, the Government has also adopted the practice
of announcing prices before the planting season (i.e., in June). Overall
pricing policy is guided by wor'ld price movements (including price
movements in neighboring countries) with a view to maximizing farmers'
share of realized export prices. The Government is also committed to
keeping producer prices under constant review and to making all necessary
adjustments in light of changes in the exchange rate in order to keep
producer incentives attractive.
Fertilizer Policy. On January 23, 1986, the Government announced the
liberalization of fertilizer distribution; previously the monopoly of GPMB,



- 61 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 21
fertilizer importation and sales are now open to private traders and
agents. Although this liberalization policy is already in effect, the
actual evolution of private activity in the fertilizer sector may take
time. Since the bulk of The Cambia's fertilizer import requirements over
the next few years will be met through grant aid, private sector imports of
fertilizer are unlikely. However, with increasing involvement of the
private sector in domestic distribution, the evolution of functions should
progress in the intended direction. To encourage private traders to enter
domestic distribution of fertilizers, the Government has initiated the sale
of fertilizers received as a grant to private traders and agents via
competitive bidding. The retail prices charged to farmers have been
decontrolled by the Government and will be market-determined.
Because the new fertilizer pricing and distribution arrangements represent
an important change, the Ministry of Agriculture intends to monitor closely
their Impact upon fertilizer consumption and agricultural production during
the 1986 aeason. Terms of reference for a study to this end have been
agreed with the Association, and the results of the analysis will be re-
viewed jointly by the Government and the Association by November 30, 1986,
as a guide to future policies.
Seed Policy. The policy of the Government is to develop a decentralized
system of seed multiplication in which contract farmers (under the
supervision of SAPUP the government research station) are used to produce
certified seed. Initially, to develop demand, this seed will be sold to
farmers at a subsidized price, but over three to five years the sale price
will be raised to cover full costs of production. A detailed plan of
action for executing this policy and redefining the roles of SAPU and the
Ministry of Agriculture in seed multiplication will be agreed with the
Association by October 31, 1986. The Government has established a Seed
Technology Unit for quality control and is recruiting a Seed Development
Officer to assist with training and the planning of contracts with growers
for the 1987-88 and subsequent seasons.
In order to forestall possible shortages of groundnut seeds for the 1986/87
crop year, the Government also introduced a Seed Exchange/Reserve program
for the 1986/87 crop year. The program maintained 3000 tons of chemically
treated seeds for exchange with farmers' seed beginning March 31, 1986.
Farmers were also able to buy seeds through the Exchange/Reserve program at
full cost. In addition, 2000 tons of seed were made available at GCU
seccos for purchase by farmers at full cost.
Consumer Rice Pricing Policy. The Government recognizes that consumer food
subsidies (particularly on imported rice) can retard progress towards food
self-suffictency. Accordingly, over the past two years it has eliminated
subsidies on imported rice and introduced an increasing measure of protec-
tion for domestic cereals producers. During 1985, the Government
maintained a 23% import duty on imported rice. As of July 1, 1986, this
has been increased to 30% as a further stimulus to domestic production.
In tandem with the elimination of subsidies, the Government in July 1985
decontrolled the retail price of rice and liberalized rice imports, which



- 62 -                           ANNEX IV
Pfge 9 of 21
were formerly the monopoly of the GPMB. Since then, commercial traders
have handled the bulk of The Gambia's import requirements. The parastatal
marketing board GPMN now handles official food aid shipments only and will
sell these only at prevailing market prices.
Agricultural Credit Policy. Persistent problems of poor loan recovery and
rising intermediation costs which characterize the parastatal Gambia
Co-operative Union (GCU) and member societies have prompted the Government
to initiate comprehensive studies of the system of agricultural credit in
The Gambia covering both the GCU system - the sole source of institutional
credit - and private credit sources. These studies will, lnter alia,
examine alternative models of credit provision (such as lending to small
village groups rather than the present larger co-operatives) and identify
means for building or strengthening viable and competitive private sector
channels for the provision of seasonal and production credit. Terms of
reference for this work have been agreed with the FAO and IDA, and the
Government and the Association will jointly review the recommendations by
November 30, 1986. The objective is to develop and begin implementing an
action program for agricultural credit reform by May 1, 1987.
Agricultural Research. Efforts to develop an agricultural research capaci-
ty began under the RDP-I project in the 1970s and are being consolidated
and strengthened under ADP-lI and the recently initiated, USAID-financed
Gambia Agricultural Research and Diversification Project (GARD). Institu-
tional capacity will be further developed and research will focus on the
analysis of farming systems, the development of integrated crop/livestock
extension messages and will give, inter alia, high priority to cultural and
cropping practices which can retard the degradation of soil fertility.
Re-organization of the Ministry of Agriculture. In 1985, the Government
initiated a merger of the extension services of the departments of Agricul-
ture and Crop Protection to eliminate duplication. During 1986, this
merged extension service is being streamlined as a modified Training and
Visit Extension system; this process will be completed by December 31,
1986. The overall review of the civil service conducted during 1986 has
provided an initial examination of the staffing, remuneration, and struc-
ture of recurrent costs of the Ministry of Agriculture. However, the
Government has decided that, in light of its large staff and the importance
of an efficient Ministry of Agriculture for the Gambian economy, a more
detailed review of the Ministry's functions and structures is required.
The objective of this study will be to define an appropriate and manageable
focus for the Ministry, concentrating its activities on areas where the
private sector is unlikely to have comparative advantage such as
agricultural research, natural resources preservation (in collaboration
with Ministry of Water Resources and the Environment), agricultural
extension, and statistical information about resources, cropping patterns,
input use, prices, and costs. The study will also focus on recurrent cost
requirements and recommend guidelines on the appropriate relationship
between wages and salary expenditures and materials and supplies, and the
organization, recruitment and training requirements of Ministry of
Agriculture staff. The TOR for this study have been agreed with the



- 63 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 21
Association and the recommendationq will be reviewed jointly by the
Government nnd the Association by Decomber 31, 1986. The Government is
committed to begin implementing a rostructuring of the Ministry in eatrly
1987.
Gambia Produce Marketing Board. In accordance with Government policy to
provide the highest possible prices to groundnut farmers, the Government
Intends to seek maximum possible improvements in the efficiency of domestic
marketing and processing channels. To this end, in 1985 the Government
commissioned a study of the performance of the GPMB, which concluded that
unclear and conf'lcting objectives set for the CPMB by the Government were
a major source of the Board's operating problems. To address this
situation, the Governmrnt has decided to develop an explicit performance
contract with the GPMB, to be signed by December 31, 1986. In accordance
with the basic policy orientations of the ERP--to promote expanded private
sector activity--the Government is also reviewing a recent USAID-financed
study of private groundnut traders in The Gambia, which concluded that
extensive government subsidies and other support to GCU and inadequate GPMB
price incentives for private traders, had undermined the ability of private
traders to compete with GCU and contributed to the sharply rising unit
costs of groundnut marketing. To address this situation, the Government is
condering a number of recommendations made in the study to eliminate
disincentives to private groundnut traders and encourage increased
competition in groundnut marketing.
Long-term Constraints. To evolve appropriate policies for rational land
use (including land conservation) and socially efficient technology choices
(mechanization, cropping patterns, etc.) the Ministry of Agriculture has
initiated a desk study with a view to synthesizing and updating all previ-
ous studies undertaken in the agricultural sector. This study, to be
completed by December 31, 1986, will also attempt to pinpoint the
underlying socio-economic, demographic and physical resource constraints to
the medium- to longer-term development of Gambian agriculture.
III. INCENTIVES FOR OTHER PRODUCTIVE SECTORS
An important objective of the ERP is to diversify The Gambia's narrow
productive base in order to expand exports and achieve faster growth of
efficient import-substituting activities. Opportunities exist for increas-
ing exports of livestock and livestock products, fish and fish products,
and in horticulture, both for export and increased supplies to the tourist
industry. In addition, the growing tourism sector should be able to make a
larger contribution to GDP and net foreign exchange earnings over the
coming years.
The Government's policy is that the development of commercial sectors
should mainly be left to private entrepreneurs, with the Government concen-
trating on creating a business climate conducive to private investment and
pursuing macroeconomic policies designed to promote stable economic growth.
In this regard, The Gambia's flexible exchange rate policy, liberal trade
policies (low average tariffs and absence of quantitative restriction), and



- 64 -
ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 21
avoldance of excessive regulntion nnd/or adminiatratIve interference in
bultinesni ire its moat Important incentivea.  In addition, the Government
nince 1973 han  maintainied generous fiscal advantages for foreign and
domesitic investors via the Development Act.
In keeping witlh this overall policy, the Government is taking steps to
divest itm parastatal holdings in the tourism and fisheries sectors.  It is
currently seeking new private equity investors for the  Atlantic Hotel and
Senegambia Beach Hotel. For these and other hotels which have benefitted
from government loan guarantees, the Covernment is also seeking to
reschedule outstanding loans in order to Improve the hotels' financial
base.  It lin also begun negotiating with several Gambian investors who
have expressed interest in buyinig out the Government's holdings in the
Seagull Coldatores Corporation, a fish processing company. Finally, the
Government has decided not to proceed with the establishment of a proposed
new parastatal in the fishing sector, the FPMC; instead, it has agreed to
commission further economic and financial feasibility studies of Lhe
project and to ensure that majority private equity participation is
obtained before the project moves forward.
Although tourist arrivals in The Gambia have increased rapidly over the
past several years, the sectoi has not lived up to the Government's expec-
tations. It has benefitted substantially from public investment and loan
guarantees but, so far, it has generated relatively low net foreign
exchange earnings for the economy due to the lack of linkages with other
sectors. Opportunities exist for expanded supplies of horticultural, meat
and poultry products to the hotels as well as for improved handicraft
marketing. To address these issues, the Government initiated a study in
March 1985, with World Bank assistance, in order to develop a
comprehensive, practical and action-oriented tourism strategy. The study
is expected to be completed by August 1986 and the Government will agree
with the Bank on a program of actions to address the sector's problems by
December 31, 19B6.
Recent Actions
Beyond the overall advantages offered to potential investors, the Govern-
ment has taken a number of specific actions under the ERP to provide
further incentives for private investors and entrepreneurs in productive
sectors, including:
(a) Elimination, in May 1985, of all export taxes (previously
18Z) on fish and fish products;
(b) Preparation of a revised Development Act to improve its
effectiveness as an investment incentive;
(c) Preparation of a Cabinet paper on export promotion incen-
tives for horticulture;



- 6, -                          ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 21
(d)  lnltintion ot work on piroposals to eciiiovo better utiliza-
tion Or the K_nifing Industrial Estate;
(e)  Development of investment promotion literature stating the
advantages of inveel.ng in The Gambia and giving guidance on
procedures.
Future Actions
Within the framework of the ERP, the Government will continue to pursue
these reforms and, specifically, will:
(a) By December 31, 1986, propose to Cabinet a revised Develop-
ment Act coveiing all sectors and incorporating a simplified
administrative procedure for granting development certifi-
cates. Duty exemptions on importation of raw materials will
be limited to initial inventories not to extend beyond one
year's supply. However, the increased predictability of the
decision riocess will maintain the attractiveness of new
investment, as decisions will now be taken within 90 days of
application. The level of benefits will also be standar-
dized to reduce administrative complexity and the margin for
discretion;
(b) By December 31, 1986, revise the existing provisions of The
Gambia Custums Tariff Act regarding duty drawbacks for
manufactured exporters with a view to:
i)   clarifying the provisions;
ii)  introducing amendments necessarv to ensure that the
drawback system is available for all domestic exports
(and effectlvely excludes re-exports); and
iii) establishing administrative procedures for the effi-
cient and equitable application of the system.
(c) By December 31, 1986, approve a plan of administrative
action to promote the full utilization of the Kanifilg
Industrial Estate, including review of land allocation and
tenure and access to electricity and water for industrial
users;
(d)  By September 30, 1986, introduce a program to wake the
National Investment Board (NIB) a "one-stop" assistance
center for potential investorE, foreign and domestic. NIB
will assist investors in preparing project proposals and
Development Certificate applications where necessary. The
NIB, with the collaboration of the Ministry of Ecoaomic
Planning and Industrial Development (MEPID), will complete



- 66 -                        ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 21
an investment guide by end-1986 in which the applicable laws
and regulations for new investment are presented;
(a)  By July 31, 1986, increase license fees for fornign veasels
operating in Gambian waters, so as to cover the cost of
increased on-boara surveillance by Department of Fisheries
inspectors, so that overfishing is avoided.
IV. PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
The Government recognizes that there is an urgent noed to restructure the
public sector to improve its productivity and its capacity to implement the
economic recovery program. In recent years, public administration has
grown beyond the Government's financial capacity. Necessary reductions in
public expenditure havo consequently severely constrained delivery of
services and the efficient functioning of Government agencies, while
expenditure on civil service personnel remains very high - astimated at
over 10% of GDP. The growth In public employment has occurred particularly
among unskilled personnel and temporary staff, whose contribution to the
performance of the public sector has been small.
The Government considers that the uncertain outlook for fiscal revenues
demands firm actions - some of which it has already taken - to reduce
public service employment on a rational, planed basis over the next
several years. A central element of the ERP, therefore, is a program to
reverse unproductive public service expansion and to institute a smaller,
adequately remunerated, better managed and better organized civil service.
First, beginning in FY 1985/86, the growth in public employment has been
reversed - the number of public employees was In fact reduced by 12% - and
further measures are underway to bring staffing into line with fiscal
realities and Government's core responsibilities. Second, the Government
during 1985/86 commissioned a comprehensive review oS the public
administration, leading to a wide-ranging program of organizational ration-
alization and improved management. Third, che Government will improve
service delivery and maintenance of productive assets by instituting direct
cost recovery policies - initially in health and urban services with IDA
assistance - and by reviews, leading to similar reforms, of underfunding of
key recurrent expenditure requirements in other sectors.
The initial actions in this program of reform have already been taken, and
implementation of the program is being energetically pursued. In carrying
out this program. The Government will take initiatives to mitigate the
social costs of public Psctor restructuring and to ensure that those
retrenched are given training, counselling and, possibly, credit facilities
to take up small business and employment opportunities in the private
sector.
Actions Taken to Date
In the second half of 1985, the Government conducted a comprehensive audit
of all established and non-established posts and personnel. Out of a



- 67 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 21
complement of 10,700 established posts. (9,000) were found to be filled.
In addition, about 5.000 monthly and daily paid temporary and casual
employeen were counted.
On the strength of the staff audit results, by March 30, 1986, termination
notices were issued to 2,284 redundant temporary and daily wage employees
and 459 lower-level established posts were eliminated. The saving in
recurrent expenditure during the 1985/86 fiscal year is estimated at D 1.6
million, net of statutory compensation requirements.
Other measures implemented in FY 1985/86 included:
-    an embargo on the creation of net new government posts (permanent
or temporary) for the duration of the ERP;
-    restrictions on the filling of vacancies;
-    a halt to the practice of transfering funds voted for unfilled
vacant posts to other expenditure categories; and
-    initiation of sectoral recurrent cost studies in the Ministries
of Health and Public Works.
In January 1986, the Government appointed consultants to undertake a
comprehensive review of public administration and the civil service cover-
ing staffing, organization, efficiency, pay policy, and staff development.
The work of the consultants has been supervised by a high level working
party chaired by the Secretary-General.
Future Actions
The consultants produced a series of reports between April and June 1986.
Based upon these reports, the Government on July 1, 1986 announced the
following decisions:
(a) 750 vacant establishment posts and a further 750 currently
filled posts are being abolished, constituting a reduction
of at least 141 in the size of the civil service during
FY87;
(b) A further 340 redundant temporary/dally wage employees will
be retrenched during FY87, constituting a cumulative 50%
reduction in the size of the non-established government
workforce since December 1985;
(c) By July 31, 1986, the Government will identify the names of
750 established civil service employees to be retrenched and
ty August 31, 1986 will have prepared redundancy notices for
those concerned;



- 68 -                             ANNEX IV
Page 14 of 21
(d) By Oc aber 31, 1986, the retrenchment of identified staff
will have been fully implemented;
(e) By March 1, 1987, a comprehensive administrative reform
program will be prepared, detailing other organizational
changes, and improvementB in personnel management, manpower
bijdgetting, pay and grading, training and recruitment, to be
implemented over the next several fiscal years;
(f) For established but vacant posts which the consultants
recommended should be retained, the Minlstry of Finance will
make only a notional D 10 provision in the 1986/87 budget,
in contrast to the former practice of fully funding these
posts, except for about 1,000 priority posts in certain
specified Mir.istries;
(g)  Also beginning with the 1986/87 budget, wage payments will
only be made against specific budgetary provisions for
wages, and only to employees included in a consolidated and
verified list of temporary and daily-paid employees that has
been prepared prior to the 1986/87 budget.
At the same time, the Government is instituting a program to provide
reasonable compensation for those leaving the public service. It is
Government's intention that the program should prepare people for
productive roles in the private sector--in agriculture, artisanal trades
and small business. In outline, the program will use the existing
Indigenous Small Business Advisory Service (IBAS) and the National
Investment Board (NIB) to counsel displaced workers. An initial budget
allocation of DI million has been made for 1986/87 to start the new
adjustment/retraining program.
V.   Public Enterprise Reform
One of the major policy objectives of the Economic Recovery Program con-
cerns improvement of the performance of public enterprises. It is the
Governmenr's objective that all public enterprises should be financially
self-sufficient (i.e., cover their operating costs, service their debts,
and make a reasonable contribution to their investments) and operate
without direct or indirect Government subsidies except in support of
explicitly-agreed public policy objectives. An important means for
improving public enterprise performance will be the establishment of
"performance contracts" to clarify Government/enterprise relations,
identify costs and benefits of non-coxmercial operations, set performance
targets, specify tax and dividend requirements, and establish appropriate
investment levels. The performance contracts will include rehabilitation
plans and labor retrenchment plans where necessary.
Reforms in the public enterprise sector are intended to create a liberal
private-sector oriented economy with a view to reducing and eventually
eliminating the heavy charge that public enterprises represent on public



- b9 -                              ANNEX IV
Page 15 of 21
sector resources.  To facilitate attainment of the desired objectiveA, a
two-pronged strategy will be employed over the period of the Economic
Recovery Program:
(a)  Pursuit of a program or systematic divestiture of Covernment
holdings in commercial sectors, beginning with fisheries and
tourism;
(b)  Increasing the autonomy and accountability of public enter-
prises through the use of performance contracts and other
actions.
Actions Taken to Date
The Government has initiated action over a broad front to implement this
strategy. Specifically, it has:
(a) In January 1986, appointed consultants (with financial
assistance from the World Bank), to assist NIB with the
preparation of performance contracts for GPMB, CUC and GPA;
(b) In January 1986, increased electricity and water tariffs by
6% and 15%, respectively, as the flrst step in a three-year
program agreed with the World Bank to bring utility tariffs
into line with long-run marginal costs;
(c) Formed a Committee headed by NIB to formulate divestiture
policy, which has already made concrete proposals for reduc-
ing government equity in Seagull Cold Stores and the Sene-
gambia Hotel (see below);
(d) With effect from January 13 1986, implemented a moratorium
on government domestic loan guarantees to public or private
enterprises, except as agreed with IDA;
(e) With effect from January 1, 1986, implemented a moratorium
an the creation of new public enterprises, joint ventures
where the Government's equity participation involves cash
infusions, or joint ventures where Government equity in-kind
exceeds 10%, except as agreed with IDA;
(f) With effect from March 1, 1986, implemented a freeze on
staff numbers in all enterprises with majority Gyovernment
ownership, pending signature of performance contracts; and
(g) With respect to the FPMC, the Government has decided not to
proceed with the project until further economic and finan-
cial feasibility studies are completed and until majority
private equity participation is obtained. To this end, it
has requested World Bank assistance in carrying out updated
feasibility studies by December 31, 1986 and will review



-70-ANM   IV
Fag Trrof 21
these studies with the donors involved before proceeding
further with the project. It will also agree vith the
donors on an alternative capital structure for the company
that involves majority private equity. Should it prove
Impossible to secure such private participatlon by June 30,
1987, the Government will agree with the donors involved on
an alternative approach.
Future Actions
The Government is conscious that the actions taken so far are only the
start of a long process which will require careful planning and sustained
administrative action. In the context of the ERP, it intends to:
(a) By December 31, 1986, prepare a detailed action plan for
divestiture and rationalization of the sector to be carried
out over the period 1987-89;
(b)  Align tariffs with long run marginal costs by implementing
the three-year program of tariff Increases for GUC agreed
with the World Bank and by adopting and impleenting similar
programs of tariff increases for CPTC and CPA;
Cc) Pass through the impact of exchange rate fluctuations and
other increases in the costs of imported inputs Into
government-controlled public utility and transport tariffs
in quarterly adjustments;
Cd) Revise the legal framework of parastatals to incorporate
enterprises of a commercial nature under the Companies Act.
For other enterprises, constituent acts will be revised to
provide for greater autonomy, clear definition of the duties
and responsibilities of their Boards and reduced powers of
parent Ministries. Legislative amendments will be imple-
mented by December 31, 1986;
(e) By July 31, 1986, require NIB membership on the boards of
all parastatals;
(f) Amend the NIB Act to require NIB to conduct flnancial and
economic appraisal of all investment proposals above
D500,000 for parastatals not covered by performance con-
tracts;
(g)  By end 1986, complete staff audits of the following enter-
prises (GPMB, CUC, CPA) and prepare labor redundancy plans,
where appropriate, for approval by their boards;
(h) By December 31, 1986, sign performance contracts with GPIS,
GUC and GPA;



- 71 -                         ANNEX IV
Pagej1 of 21
(i) Consider options for encouraging private sector participa-
tion in ferry and river transport operations, in the context
of Inland water tranaport Bervicee, within six months of the
submiaslon of the conisultant reports expected in late 1986.
VI. PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAMMING
Among the Government'e overriding objectives for the ERP period are
achievement of a substantial improvement in the productivity of public
investment and ensuring that the recurrent cost implications of new
lnvestments are sustainable in light of projected medium-term fiscal
constraints. To this end, it has agreed with IDA on the following
stringent criteria for all public investments undertaken during the ERP
period:
(a) Completion of adequate economic feasibility studies;
(b) Assigning of priority to projects whose economic rates of
return are high; for the initial two years of the ERP, the
economic rate of return (where calculable) for all new
projects included in the program will be at least 15Z; and
(c) Completion of a thorough study of recurrent cost implic:-
tions for all proposed projects.
Among projects that meet the above criteria, the Government will give
priority during the ERP period to :
(a) Projects with net foreign exchange generating or saving
potential;
(b) Rehabilitation and maintenance projects; and
(c) Long-term investments in education and basic health services
to develop the Gambia's human capital.
The Government and the Association have initiated a review of the projects
under execution, preparation or study in light of the above criteria and
have identified: -
(a) A core investment program ("A list") comprising projects and
programs under implementation, which are consistent with the
recovery program objectives and criteria, and whose external
financing requirements have been fully secured:
(b) A "B list" of projects which are already under
implementation but require redesign and/or reductions in
scope to align them with the objectives of the recovery
program;



- 72 -
ANNEX IV
Page IS of 21
(c) A "C list" of projects which either have a substantial
financing gap or are at the design stage and require further
study before a decision on their inclusion in the core
program may be made by Government. The three lists are
attached as Annex I.
The core investment program as currently estimated for the period 1986187 -
1988/89 totals US $75 million. If ongoing projects on the "B list" are
included, total development expenditure (including some recurrent
expenditure) over the period would be about US $35 million per year, or
roughly 20% of GDP annually. However, before the Government can finalize
the full program for 1986/87-1988189. there is a need for substantial
updating of project cost estimates and execution schedules, in light of
recent major exchange rate changes, changes in inflation and the impact of
suspended donor disbursements. Moreover, the Government must review all "B
list" projects with the respective donors and agree on their redesign
before the program is finalized. To this end, the Government will take the
following actions:
1.   It will prepare by October 31, 1986 a revised "A list" for
the period 1986/87 - 1988/89 in order to take into account
the latest information on execution, changes in inflation
and exchange rates and projected completion dates;
2.   By December 1, 1986, it will complete reviews of all B-list
projects with the donors involved and will agree on neces-
sary changes in project scope, design, cost estimates and
execution;
3.   On the basis of I and 2, above, by December 31, 1986, the
Government will prepare a fully revised PIP integrating the
three lists: list A in full; list B as modified; those list
C projects that meet the specified criteria and can be
accommodated without exceeding the ceilings agreed with IDA;
and the cost of the studies on the remaining projects;
4.   Establish a committee composed of representatives of the
Planning and Finance Ministries and the Establishment Office
to work together on the preparation of recurrent cost
estimates for the 1986/87 budget until a more permanent
coordination mechanism is designed;
5.   Initiate reviews of recurrent costs in the major remaining
ministries (Agriculture and Education);
6.   Roll over the PIP beginning in 1987/88 and refine the
process progressively as experience is gained, institutions
strengthened and procedures adapted;



- 73 -
ANNEX IV
Page 19 of 21
7.   To assure the integrity of the programming process, adopt
the rule that no external borrowing is approved unless the
project Is In the PIP.
The Covernment has taken a number of additional steps to increase the
productivity of investments, directly or indirectly, and to minimize the
burden on Government finances. Among these are : (i) some of the compo-
nents of the public enterprise reform outlined in the preceding section, in
particular the immediate moratorium on all government loan guarantees, the
decision to require NIB to conduct financial and economic appraisal of all
major investments by the public enterprises, and action to improve the
management of these enterprises through a program of performance contracts;
(ii) the establishment of planning units in key ministries such as
Agriculture, Education, Health and Public Works; (iii) the initiation of
Ministry-by-Ministry reviews of recurrent cost needs in relation to either
possible savings or underfunding; and (iv) the introduction of a system of
quarterly allocation of development expenditures which allows closer
financial control as well as the flexibility for redirecting funds speedily
to enable uninterrupted project implementation. The last mentioned measure
is supplemented by pre-audit checks on development expenditure items
financed through the government local fund.
In addition, 1985/86 being the final year of the Second National Develop-
ment Plan, which covered the period 1981/82 - 1985/86, the Government
believes that a more flexible approach to the programming of development
expenditure is in order without, however, compromising the long-term
objectives and continuity of the development effort. In support of this,
it has decided to shorten the programming period as far as investments are
concerned from five years to three years and to introduce the concept of a
"'rolling" investment program. In addition to closer monitoring of project
implementation, this would require strengthening the links with the annual
preparation of the recurrent budget and may entail the introduction of
multi-year budgeting.
Finally, the Government is taking further steps to strengthen its invest-
ment programming capability, in particular project evaluation and recurrent
cost estimation, with technical assistance from the UNDP and possible
initiation of an institutional "twinning" arrangement with the Planning
Ministry of a developing country with competence in this field. Other
priority areas, particularly in connection with the introduction of a
trolling"? program, include improving the reliability and timeliness of date
on project execution, the development and systematic updating of a
macroeconomic framework, and evaluation of the projected and actual impact
of investments. A major objective of the Government in this regard is to
increase the training component and effectiveness of technical assistance.
VII. EXTERNAL DEBT MANAGEMENT
The Government iecognizes that rationalization of The Gambia's stock of
external debt and arrears is urgently required for the country to be able
to meet its debt service obligations and regain the confidence of



- 74 -
ANNEX IV
Page 20 of 21
international creditors. To this end, it has taken strong actions during
1985 and 1986 to settle arrears to the IMF and to reduce arrears to other
creditors. During 1986, it plane to request a Paris Club rescheduling of
eligible debt and to seek parallel rescheduling agreements with other
creditors. Most important, the Government has adopted a policy of
stringent review of new external borrowings to ensure that these are fully
Justified and on appropriately concessional terms. In this connection, the
Government has adopted:
(a) A prohibition on any external borrowing for projects or
programs not in the agreed three-year Public Investment
Program, effective January 1, 1986; and
(b) A moratorium on government domestic loan guarantees for
public or private borrowers, except as agreed with IDA,
effective January 1, 1986.
Accompanying these actions, the Government has taken steps to strengthen
the Loans Department of the Ministry of Finance, including computerization
of public debt recording.
VIII. ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING OF THE NATIONAL
ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM
In conjunction with the far-reaching economic policy adjustments being
implenented under the ERP, the Government is taking important steps to
impro'e the quality of macroeconomic management by strengthening key
institutions and training national staff. With assistance from USAID, a
program Is in place to train staff of the Ministry of Finance and Trade,
including establishment of an economic monitoring unit in the Ministry.
The UNDP is assisting the Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial
Development by providing a team of advisers to train MEPID staff in project
analysis, recurrent cost forecasting and sectoral planning. At the Central
Bank, a senior adviser from the Bank of England has recently been recruited
to serve as General Manager for the next two years and the IMF is providing
technical assistance to the Departments of Banking Supervision and Economic
Research. Finally, in light of the comprehensiveness and complexity of
the Economic Recovery Program, the Government has recently requested the
World Bank to help recruit a senior economic policy adviser to the
Presidency to help oversee and coordinate implementation of the ERP and
overall macroeconomic policy. To ensure successful implementation and
coordination of the Economic Recovery Program at the Ministerial level and
to create a mechanism for keeping Cabinet informed of the progress of the
recovery effort, two committees have also been established. The first is
the Steering Committee on the National Economic Recovery Program chaired by
the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Trade, with the Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development as Vice
Chairman. The Steering Committee is responsible for monitoring the
implementation of the recovery measures, preparing quarterly progress
reports for Cabinet and the donor community and advising on Implementation
impediments. The second is a Working Group on Civil Service Reform,



- 75 -                            sX IV
Page 21 of 21
created to monitor the implementation of the reforms and structural changes
in the civil service. The working group is chaired by the Head of the
Clvll Servlce and Secretary General, President's Office.



-76-
14   Daia- P&I i. lowtmt P      husltlegto  ad Phamtuqa hp Vmw,   a   - List'
.. . .... . ......llI...4care  1  IlIrs
togll cuat laM silotumi             Eaucatzue                           Thrum-hei PIP
EaKating   Drigusal                     Acts) threm      "et   Eat. 3d                                                    bifter
hsotmlraptjut                        Su-v It  CEvrumcy   klatts  UhM 2t   1W641U3            1,DM      91116       taIei l?b    wonu   iwueaw     luta       t9U/II
Apracmltvml liiNatural Iusmmucu                                  152.6   43.6            12.6       3.3     4.1           6.3      5.3      4.0        15.6        11.3
JaluIily A Pache  tor Omwulapmt               U         216.7        53.3      1i.7I        it.?      1.2      2.0          2.0       2.0      0.0         2.0         0.0
FPrmsuy Projiects,                            MiFr I D2120.0          3.2       0.9         0.0       0.1      0.3          0.3      0.3       0.0         0.6           .0
autmctt  h.utmpmuat                           A        PWAIB.o       &3. 0     1I.0         D.9       1.0      I.E          £.0      LI        Lb0        9.0          4.3
I.mL3                                    NA       00.0          21.0      3.0          0.0       0.0      0.0          1.0       2.0      2.0         3.0         tO0
Puhilu Utitutus,                                                  162.0      46.0         0.4       2.4      2.1          4.7      5.1       4.7        11.1        27.1
lmprovmmuuat Irautnioe I lImtrahatmuer    900          1140.0        11.0      4.0          0.0       0.0      0.0          2.0      1.0       2.0         3.0         4.0
hbam Muter Boy                                110      020.3  41    64.1       10.3         0.0       v.0      0.0          2.0      2.0       3.0         6.0        12.3
Oval   uter hWWII                             U           -          Z4.A       1.1         0.0       0.2      0.3          0.3      0.3       1.1         2.21        4.3
lasti 9wmwa. VAd DrainageU                                           30.2I    IL.6          1.4       2.2      2.2          2.2      2.2       1.6         6.0         0.0
Trespart aMd Camincatoum                                          167.0     47.1          3.3       5.9     20.0          7.3     22.3       4.0       24.1         30. 3
Oanaujl-Buvrutlnad 241may                     NC                     32.6       9.3          3.3      3.9       3.0         2.0       1.0      0.0         3.0          .0
Highway 11mimtmacu Prays 21                   230      524.1  41    66.1  41 19              .0     01.0       2.0         2.2      1.2       4.6        21.3         6.3
Bamiat- Earn  furry *uAahatmtatioe            MLt      ONI            3.2       0.9         0.0       0.0      0.0          0.3      0.4       0.0         0.9         0.0
immiar NMmmd                                 IWE       EC2. 73        0.4       2.4I        0.0       0.0      0.1          0.3       1.0      0.4         I.!          .0
Tutucumunzcatzmm    3Mnu                          Fr            56.0      11.0         0.0       0.0      S5.          2.3      4.0       0.0         6.3         4.1
Eduratwi                                          ~~~~      ~~~~        ~~~~     ~~9.3  2.1  1.3  0..  0.3  0.3   0.3       0.3         0.9         0.2
NtuculLasunu [dmattie. Programs               NE                      9.3       2.1          1.3      D.3      0.3          0.3      0.3       0.3         v.9         0.2
healthi                                                            Al.3      17.5         0.6       0.4      0.4          0.&      3.4       3.4        7.9          0.6
4usptais &ad Spotuislzed Units                ON                     12.3       1.5         0.6       0.4      0.4          0.0      0.5       2.0         2.3         2.0
lorld Bank health Prmqrgm                     IS        014.0  II1    49.0     14.0         0.0       0.0      0.0          0.4      2.9       2.9        6.4          7.6
tonSug, 699 ad0 COmauty Ouvutopeuut                                .0.6      17.3         2.1       5.a      3..          4.1       I.E      1.1        9.&           .0
1109   1 I                                    lPID    1132           4b6.     13.3          2.2       0.2      4.2          .1.3     2.9       0.0        1.1).
lsimal Public Survicuu(91`9I, ticl.           BED         -          24.0       4.0         0.0       2.4       2.4         I.E      *1.9      0.9         2.6         11.0
DIivLiumoa Om'.ulpmuet Fund
BRAID TOTAL                                       611 .5    174.8         25.3   17.9        23 -1         2335   30.3   .11.4          72.a         AI *. A
II NA' tuaistrp of AgrcLlurtwm   11. tiqaatry of L6mr Rusourcus -- F,ahwr,aishIfb  and fnru,teviForI Dupartamente ire part. v4 VMg 60' WWfIa Lttulatams UrpiMeatsomj
lIlt. Ministry of Urtks aid Communnatimns, N- Namistqr of Educcioi a     1; Ii  Ministry of  nmaltti; lEPID' Nanifsty o4 Econosic Plunaing and Industrial hnuL.pamt;
BED-Dept. of nueufiaty Dunulupmnta H1T.kinm,try of lInturaatimi aid Tourist
21 tEcvurted l'ou dalamis at thu PtIF-JaULAry 040Elcza  hurthang. rote ci 3.231S.            21 REPFID utmlat. at num-Fuhriary 0906.
4, laned oai n 'EP gftal r4 imprts; instimate. by IlEPID Bot up-to-Satin or AECUrAtm.
5, Coautnu.ati(an of ongoing pro jicts.     a/ Idmhmn Ogricnltwal Emiaich lad lunlopmumt pro IEI, Which Will cont2mue then artiwalarm of the Rampo Farmiau  and
Rasout.v Nanaqumen-t projuct. 71 Urhan Mlamgaaut and Omvuiopmut PrmjKctm.
Swurce: lIFID



-77-
Attacimat N
N   1111111- MItW   IsWI.ta   tPuyM  EiKKtiL  S O          q Ph4atg  y VWr, * I - List
IllDlags  S  carnt 11 SIlhral
fIdel Cad  III ciillim              EIK*ztA                             lkrrr-b r PIP
_______.____________.kSflflinUUSin*UinUinin-n-l------------ - m. .__..u....   ..........................
Emmuotag   Oraual                        kisls i1 hr dqt   Cat. SI A1tar
SactarlPrlJKt                       hasp  It   Curram        kIria  13021   IOUtE           IMSA    91/" 5/         111111117  1907dm  J9u1n      1,1tl       1Um1
IgrcwituArel  Sd Natural UIncaur                                  NM.h      45.3          7.4      6.0       6.6          5.7      7.0       6.5       19.2         12.1
imaps, ad RaisEld Nice heleemat               H          -           10.2       5.2          .0        .0      0.e         0D0       1.4       1.0        7.0          S.,
IrrantatW   Ni  Cenaslldstim                 a           -           17.2      *.4          0.1      0.4       0.0         0.0       2.0       1.0        2.0          :.6
kraudatar Survey                                         -            5.2       1.3         0.0       0.0      0.0          0.0      1.0       0.5         1.5         0.0
Colt. lawaminut lies 11                       *        FF41.3 *1    13.7        3.4         0.0      0.4       1.4          1.7      0.0       0.0         1.1         0.0
AP  Ii                                        P        029.3        104.3     29.3          6.s3       .2      5.2          4.0      4.0       4.0       12.0          6.3
ladtstry                                                            1.0      2.0          0.4      0.1       0.0         0.0       0.1      0.7         1.3          0.1
Salt Prdatii  lavalput                        EC         -            1.1      0.1          0.0        .0      0.0          0.0      0.3       0.0        0.3           .0
fared krick Prductn Dealopmet                 KIC        -            &.4       1.7         0.0       0.1      0.0          0.0      0.3       0.7        1.0          0.7
Public Ltalatian                                                    0.4      2.4          0.0      0.0       D.0         0.9       0.4      0.0         G.E          I.6
-----------                                                                              ---- _----- ---                                    0.0 
Rural litar SWuplv (Piprei                    U        07.4           8.4       2.4         0.0       0.0      0.0          0.0      0.0       0.4        0.o          1.A
Irafspt and Ctaacati_se                                            411.0    13.7         4.3       0.2       0.2         0.5       2.0      4.0         6.5         6.1
Vndus Airprt IV                              PC        U4.2          10.2      5.2          4.3      0.2       0.2         0.5       1.0       1.5        1.0          1.7
UrWha  Strata tIlu Ltcttan                    III        -            5.3       1.5         0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0      1.0       0.3        1.5          0.0
Ltaink*ta-Paalai    RoaW                       11        -           24.5      7.0          4.0      0.0       0.0          0.0      0.0       2.0        2.0          5.0
(dUC attn                                                          15.1      4.5          0.6       1.6      1.1         0.7       1.1      0.5         7.3           .0
AF [Educatio  PrOJect                         RE      UI             15.1      4.5          0.t       l.a      I.L         0.7       1.1      0.5         2.3           .0
tOtrL C1-LIT1)                                      237.7     67.           0.3       1.9      3.4          6.9     11.1      11.2       30.1         71.1
***       SS.         . "i_.    *.        .          su...   _..._. ._ ...              ..      .   .......
Total 4A-Listt                                                 611.8   174.8           28.3    17'9   23.1            23.5   30.3   21.4            75.2        48.2
Total 'A-List . rn-.tl                                        869.5   242.7           36.6   25.7    31.5             30.&    41.4   33.5          lOS.3        29.3
I, ri. fiaafy of 4ncaltur) MI Nflnastry of star Resource -- FiaharinsFibli and Forntry(ForIle Departeets art parts of   ; Mli- liabit Uttiltia  Corporation;
it. Ministry of Uris ad Cummcatnausl IE. Ninhatry of (duEataql Em  Izistry SF aaith; WlEPI- lioistry of Econmc Planning and 1*1satrial Dealapsati
KElmoapt. of Casuanityh I     Clapat; *NfltHsastrV  ft lafar"otIw  aS  Touries
2i Emaatad rIotm dlamst at tie pr-Ja y official saChge^  rats of 3.5SD1.                    31 IEPID  etite at adi-fobruary 191.
4) Oriqnal Cost in [VHS rca.t * S COnt;ngeucy
SourcE: lEPID



Attec at C
S. gflqg- lilac  t..t-t  Prermi  uetimn ee  Pbeaqst   bk  W-, * £ - List'
utlhmlls Dl currUt 0 kiltarl
la1 teS  am  s       mIIz           tlmus                              thr     w --   - IP Fl
Emmtdlq   kr4teA                        Atisl tbc       het   lt. 3?                                                   htar
AKtwl      ui                       lgny yl cit             hinge   I?        lUll, InIisU  71    1/11           I!n IMM.iI? lol  11S 11111 Iwo"  laeIl     lP
4ricigtval Aimteiwc   bescee                                     91.8   24.2             LB      0.0      0.3          2.0      4.5      1.0       10.5        13.6
tIclarlnzer Oewl_t               1         1        1        1        .-      2.1         0.         .1      0.     110 0.         0.3      0.5        3.O          as 1s@l
rttumel 11_&e r       eiem                   *IFh       -            6.1      2.3 .b               0.0       0.0          .         .e      0.3 2to                 4.
labotril P brtem  (VW)                       W(Mgb) -             74.9      i1.4         1.0      0.0    0.3             1.0    3.0        3.0        7.0         12.3
Palli LtIltiern
bul Uuiriltcatle                            MS                        Wt  e  jute sears
Tregt   d C          lcelm                                        2.         .2                   0.0        0         0.0      0.3       3.0        3.3          5.S
- - - - - -- -- -- -- _i- -- --  ...                                                                                   ...- .- --   . -...- -- -
Omil Telemmatcen  telogmt                     SK        -           1351      *.1         0.0       0.0      0.0         0.o      0.0       1.0        1.0          1.3
betel   ucwic huilpeat                       K         -            1.3      0.3         0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0      0.1       0.2        0.3           .0
Ir,_lie  'wen                                S          -           12.6      3.6         0.0      0.0       0.o         0.0      0.0 o      .3        1.          I.e
1S1^ latw  Iricmt  bt ugmit                                          tAt yet dUELNUS
Tewis, Trade  A Fleece                                            13.6      31     e     .o  . .o          o .0        0.0       1.3      2.0        3.3         0.0
_- - .X- -- - - - - - - - - - - ..- - - - - - .
Ilee  mmesmt 1llew it                        111                     3.3      0.-         0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0      0.3       0.0        0.3         O.,O
bwal ad Whe  EAirlWme                                               10.5      S.0         0.0      t.0       0.0         0.0       1.0      .o         3.0         (i. u
eith                                                             26.9      1.1         0.        0.  0.0              0.0       1.0      2. 0       3.04.1
k1e4        et |     te ak ne7                          -          24.9        i          0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0       1.0      2.0        3.0         4.1
tOtA  (c-.u                                      156.8    44.111          1.      0.0       0.3         2.0      1.9      11.0        19.9       22.7
.___ -........-.....f                                       .    _.m.    S. ..  .....  _...._.                          ......      ......
_                   - __                      - .  ------.---   ----- --                                         …------     -- -               . - -
1l 1    SultrY Of tqacimltwel NI Nlrasutry of Ibte ruacou -- Fis|rea Fhel .at Fwueotry(irl  _ptmets ere pvt. of El GMt. ants  tilitin  Cwporatalm
S.  ramautry rA  thws ead Ceilcatiluu    IE Iheliktry of Educellonl  l  Eelastry of Iheltig 1EPI3  Nimistry *4 Ecoewmc Planningq "d lediarigel   weaoprnt;
KCIbpt. of Ce_mtlly lvlgmeil  llt-Phugmtir  of lmiwetgote ge  Toawle
21 CuwurtS  ro  dleas     til   -amemwry M4iiuel unchnqe rite of 3.9/3.                    31 KIll ftee"te et sed-F-serwy If".
Res.l 5P11



PNEX  V
Page 1 of 9
TIE GcnA: sMrm Awmeu PRM
HAIROF IS I, MMSIRfl MMt ACfQ
SIJTA, ISSi                         ?EASWI DfwEtNt                      ACrL    MTIS   BE  M un              f l
1. E31 RA= ROMR
Need for flodbla  un sp rate       Intrvductim of inturbank nrat                        CK, Vr
system to eree efficiet            (flaxl. schr. rate) Brse
allocatio of erces.                Janary 20, 1986.
Pas.,ehroi of aidg  rate            Qarterly raim, of   e     rate rf, 1St, M        EM
effects on wvenimt-ar rolad   uewta at p.oqt iailatstu
tariffs at price.:                 o2 mincy tariff adMjits for
all piblc azterpri    abject to
-inUsus     fcw omuiau In            nexnt tariff cmtrols.
retail petrosA pricr, mIdr  a
on3ative ixcrme of about 103%
since Jasry 1986
-iraeus of 1.5 in watar an 91
in electricity taiffs, effective
July 1, 1986, ad
-increas  of 410-5  in GPM
tariffs, effective April 13, 1986
2. FISCAL XJCT
Need co pun  prudent overall       Rewctiam in overall briget deficit  Impq1weatim of 1986/87 bhd4t with  bF
fiswal policy ad achieve           achieved d     !rg 1985/86.         deficit (irclding grams) of co mu
praoe.dve remtructaring of                                             than 9%, I prorating a Ieres
crrant  wditumre in favor of                                           In the allccat±u    for mterials,
increased allocatics for                                               inaplies and min        relative to
merlals and sppLIes.                                                    armal emlists.



AN NX V
Page 2 of 9
SInIRnaL ISSUES                     _________N                           AcrIa  M BE TAKENr'rua
3.  YIEA    AND Cfa   PLaCT
Neel to plimLe prudent credit      RedIctiaI in let credit to           Sharp reuctimn In Cetral Bank rut    Cw, WI
policies and to provide             4ve=ent and the  PMB achieved       credit to Govszmt durirsg 19187.
suffidaitly renerative returns    wurlng 1985/86.
to assets 1.14 in local arrrercy                                        Cmtainmt of credit to publf
fom.                               Decmtrol of  cmiral bank             enterprii*s &aring 1986/87.
deposit and ladim rates and
dabling of cantral ink discowt    Revia!an of sy8te for alsrcattn
rte Implented in Septeber 1985.  credit cAiling  to ircltde ade.te
cgsideratifn of bats' deposit d
Introductim of Tresary biUl         resave leves.
tenier systen and re ilar revis-w of
dutic interest rate structure.                                                                          c
4. FThWC   SEH   RHXIABUEAIICN
nllIqiaty a! insolvcay of key  ITn1tatim  of G=  finacl                                                       (MG, }E, GM
firlnial institutios; inaLdeqte  reptnr       g  rog:
finaLlal inte=iIt1ai.                                                   OnoJat=y 1, 1987, cretiat of a
I irrease in OWCB aitnrized dsae  gzggd fin  to itdch all
capital to D50 miAm axd opening   ncn-perfonring governmt- guartoeed
of capital base to foreign and      006 Ie   will be tee . (Seccd
damstic private investors,          trsrFe cnUditic)
approvw by Parliamet Mrch 1986.
* Caversim of D35 mfiaim of
short-aiI-maSiun-tem debt into a
law-term (L5 yrs., Imlusive of a
10 yr. grce perind) loan to M
frm CG, interest on loan to be
paid by Governt.



AN!-EX V,
Page 3Tof 5
SIRECRAL ISSlES                       MEASU    D DIENID                     ACrf   M  E TAM                      n r
RESPUh'IN1
Cocxersia, of IDf credit of D6.4
mdllInn into GC)B equdty.
5. NRICJ    ALF%1E PA C
- Fro&aer Prices
Need to stimulate proxucti  and      1985/86 prcducer price icreasse  of   Azr         t of 1987/88 grxrx           W, ?a, &MS
exports.                             iO2l for grcnhzts,  65% for paddy   prodwer price after cwsdtatkc
rlce and 30% for cottr.               with MI  (Secarm Tran Coition)
1986/87 pre-planting amtncsmt
of 45% icrease in the grutt
pnxxer price.
- Fertilzer Policy
Need for economic pricing of         Ak mzu t of liberalized                Initiation of MA sta   of impact of    MUM
inputs and efficient distributima.   fertilizer disitruttm and pricing   1986/87 fertilizer pricing and
policy In Jamuary 1986.               distributiLm cha2ges, results to be
dlnssed with I  by NIw rb  30,
19B6.
Sale via tender and public artimi                                             GRB
of goveromt fertilizer to private
traders and GCU1 initiated by Jne
30, 1966.
- Sed Polcy
Need for lnqntved trearmt and        Inr-oduction of gokut seeld                                                    MA, Was, GOU, IM
storage of axial granuit seed    elrga/reserve program for
stocks.                              1986/87.



ANNE V
Palgej 4of 9
SMYrnmAL ISSES                     MEASUE DLfil2NIEE                   AClQIN 1M HE TAME                 DnWS1 IM
RESEMBL
Sel ceha1 with fmmrs
bsglxnln MIxch 30, 1986.
Ieed forr aclertd dmvelopzat    Ccmaltt stAy ccupluted.               Develop detaie atlc plmi for
of }irvs  eel verietis.                                               estabIsr of dculzsyste
of anid ndttp3icatl, uIzr
ccnt fra     s F an private ts5c
by Octcbe 31, 1986.
-Cansr Rim PuiLdm
N1W to stinzlt if ficisit locad   EldMlnstla of all szudied and    Pavle tariffs a   ti ported rim with   WI, KM
cerals pm,uctln.                  imtwm&    of a 30 lxir duty    ID elnty to dete               tlur
tariff an iporte rim.              alaqiry in lit of is for
protectim  for  mestc pr&rers.
PHivnlznrl  of S rTsietp at
an dwtrol of oar rim
p§im
- kbUal - 
Need to eul credit avaiability                                        Iniat   mprdsi    tdy of            H)k, fl
ix  broya  my.                                                        arioiltiwal Ortlit systs n1xl
Ca  id privas credit sun ml
daims  to xuimlsl fwmztal
reform of ac      cyts. Jot
MhA/O meznzt reviw of study
0 , enaria wby Mgd  1, 1987.
ktio progra for fimdsurtal refam
of agrplulul credit siopt  by
m -nt by f( 1, 197. (Sd



ANNEN v
Page 5 of 9
5nmrw. ISStUS                      YSRES DmaELE                        Acnr  To BE TAYII               Wraluric
- Hlzsty of tcln         0)
Need to increase efficency of       trg.r of CPS mid DCtA exteion     Ilitati   cacprdemiw sty of MA    %M, Providet's
M  (rluitL4Ig asy cAsary          services ding 1985.                 fwntia, stnrture, staffing and       Offie, 3It
aff reductica)s).                                                      Tree allocaticns.
Jolnt MA/CO revise of sbd
t  _    by DwszM   31,
1986.
Tzpl1tatiem of          Ming of
M?isry durig 1987.
-.am~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Ned to liprov efficieny of        Conrltsit stuiies cawlted.          Prpee  mid sip GEM  perfoncr.        M, IFT,  NB, an's
grv.nhrt, muuketing andx                                              Ctract by D_,l_. 31, 1986.
p-eesdllg.                                                            (Seeni frm It C
6. DtlIVE Fl Ol PI01       TIVE  SECTE
Need to ewu         increased                                         Adaptiui of rwflhd 1en1cpint At    MM
privae (forsiu  ax! dcustic)                                          ad A     Stratvs gddfsIAm   to
bnvent In miustry. epecidly                                           sped airstrta  ad rein
for export.                                                           d3ay              ntaltm  by
Dcebr 31, 1986. (S        
Pred  of duty draA,k system          WI, )EM, MA
for qallfd e rts  by
Decate 31, 1986.
Seas taeb coxdti)



ANNEX V
Page 6 of 9
STXMRLISL                          MMUF  nDPO                          AINS TO BE TA                     OSM
Apprwal of plm of  ts xtrative        4LC&L, MIPM
-tim  to lqpr. uWliztf   of
Fas Ifing I1uxbjul Ffrtat by
Dwer 31, 1986.
NIB esttlest of  m-sp"                MI,  })ET
mitwn center an czltlm of
bwiM=t QarA by Nmber 31,
1986.
- Taois
Nee to inuese era;.c ba fits  Irld Batk coniltat study of             CcwleIm of study by A*W    1986        Ml, !C                      co
frIan tailsm.                      tAils uwtor iritite  Marh          an IDA/OG awa  c secr
1986.                              aftsrv by s r  31, 16.
Ned to sOtilae eoxfts.             Mlim[natlm of fish apart ti.T
July 1985.
Ned to utinudate Ierramd                                               GcmpJaim of uydated 6e        at     NIB, PrFsldcy
private naesm    in wtor                                              fbsiu4jl fesibility stwils of         )EPM, )4t
MRC by  nc w , 1966. 19  tktm
to mwre ajarity private  *dty
petidpata  In vnur. Rude of
ditatam wfith cd        by Jm  30,
1987.
7. PUtLIC MUIISRATIONI REIW I
Need to streanll  govenuet         Retrewrima of 2,284 tesairsy          Ilntati of a 141 r.hutlm  in   Wr,  Fsiisr
srice and Inpw. productivity.   ai daily paid Wricers by Mrd 31,  the establi            civil service      Office, Pridry
1986.                              involvirg abolltim of 750 vacmt



ANNEX V
Page 7 of 9
S'REWIURLA ISM                      HEA¶M    MIM.                          MCNS TO BE TAIN          Emuriva
civil servlce pots and a furte
Abolitin of 459 established          750 awraty filled pwts.
posts by Mrdi 31, 1986.
Idaif i cat' :n by ivly 31, 1986 of
Cailetim of staf asixt and           750 emlys to be zurd and
MA-fln.ed civil servlce revlw.   isaznce of rsiniacy rtioes by
&Aut 31, 1986.
Preparatim of a cLmsolidated an
verified list of all daily paid and  Retruxiuzt of a additional
tuory  .rk   by Jum 30, 1986.  340 tzpoary/daly pdd wrker  in
1986/87.
Full fr*1teetial  of 1986/87
rerin   m.a - byO(ctdber 31, 1986.
Preperat1c of a ip e
dnistrative pLOP    of
izatiemal dumV,   -mrvmt
In persoml      ,       UOR
1xd*ttIx%, pay and pull%v ad
odie refons by Had  1, 1987.
(Se        trS he
EInadio of bwlet A1locatf   for  Mr
all vacat estab1ishd pem in
FY1986/87 bwpt,  ept for
posts in cetain spsiiai
ministries.
Pastrictiw of we payments to daily IfT
paid and temorary wcs  qpaing
on   olidaed ad verif,ed liet for
PY1986/87 wd co%ded (030).



ANNEX 'V
Page 8 of 9
STRU}IRRL ISSUI l?ESMII D11:>                                         ABMT  E TAMB                         DETIIIVIW
Et3±dinz of adm pram   NIB, IBIS
for dilcd g            nmam by
Decadr 196.
8. PLIC EIIWBSE Raw
New to zuir  scope of setor.      Ihitintiat of NIB wkon overal.    Cme3tla of iotdM divmstiture           NIB
pertaa  divetsbir  Am              and rtI&WaJAzeim pin fcor pelod
I'   47     strat.              1987-89 by w  31, 1986.
(S.nm  t    fl2        C
CapJt!m of   dat s.em.t tr           NIB, PrisniMry
finmais fmiblAtt  e#mM  of MHc   HfFID )E
cxi Ga cize ae    to  a                                          0'
Waity privfl s$±y psrdeiei
Nee to izprwn    effiiacy of       Iritim of  ltrt icm  on            Signstur of perfoa  ce   ats          NIB, ME, W1
reaiaw  aterpriss.                perforca  onts for Me,             vwit dme t'r  aetrpris  by
GtE, GPLA.                         D        3'   46.
A&4Ia  of 3-yew tariff pmgi        Im3mtO  of mwdzled             d
for GUC In Jany 1986.                   tariff Ireie an
Jas 1,.1987.
9. BELIC DWWU   NFO lhl
k16 to adie  stetantial            Inital teiie of PIP cd             Pepare detamilm siev  of ai           HEM
tzrovsnt in productivity of       claasifictf ito care prop,           goirg projeta a ndqxiated cost
pblic lnebit.                     List B a.  List C.                   stntes  x status of ptysical .4
financil emcim   October 1,
1986.



ALNNX V
Page 9 of 9
SI- MUM LSS                         MEA&SRE  EDl 11CD _CrICtS M B TA_ _rurm
Ca-ry eat detailed rre~w m
rsimin of all "~B list" prujacte and
gree m all i<zy projec
1         ,~ma  vfi.
by Dwwer 1. 1986.
Fial      I odatirx  of all uda
project data imt single PIP IgTW
with M for 1986/87-88/89 by
Mord 31, 1987. (Second mdai
Need to  ipe reorrmt ant            Inceed buLt mllocatI A  for          T.tIatia off                          mm, KT
-W                                  u s14 iterlaaw  o lf                                               e ai
twrrnt  rtu        vil-edviB        iwbw2t ezpYit   in .sh
psracnul 1UDi8ts in 1986/87
bugt



BSIML PROJECTION: THE GAMBIA
RECOVERY SCENARIO(MAIN)   BASE YEAR 1933 ( NO COM FRUM 1555)
ANALYTICAL TABLL;
ATTACHMENT 3A  NATIONAL ACCOUNTS- 5 YEAR LEAST SQUARES GROWTH RATES
1983-88    1984-89    1985-90    1986-91    1987-92    193B-93    1969-94    $990-95
226 GDP                             2.46t      3.960       3.403      3.397      3.398      3.399       3.400
222 YAGR                            4.551      4.873       3.200      3.200      3.200      3.200       3.200
221 YIND                            2.352      4.033       4.157      4.100      4.100      4,100       4.100
223 YOTH                            f.202      3.386       3.400      3.400      3.400      3.400       3.A00
239 C                               0.53$      2.860       2.731      2.452      2.616      2.997       3.274
238 1                               1,707     -1.219      -0.606      2.583      3.399      3.400       3.400
162 XGNFS                           2.862      5.436      3.974       3.459      3.154      2.873       2.670
185 MGNFS                          -0.447      1.779       1.556      1.766      2.007      2.350       2.605
ATTACHMENT 3A  OTHER INDICATORS- 5 YEAR LEAST SQUARES GROWTH RATES
1913-88    1984-89    1985-90    1986-91    1987-92    1989-93    1989-94    1990-95
__- --     -- - -     -- - -      .. ..__.__ _ - _ __ -------  -------  -------  -------____
246 GNP                             2.751      4.274       3.830      3.814      3.737      3.645       3.564
127 GNPPC                          -0.478      1.007      0.585       0.581      0.515      0.431      0.352
128 ENERGY                          2.469      3.960       3.403      3.397      3.398      3.399       3.400
ATTACHMENT 3A OTHER INDICATORS- S YEAR MARGINAL RATES
1983-88    1984-89    1985-90    1986-91    1997-92    1989-93    19 81-94    1990-95
245 GNS   /GNP                      0.337      0.272       0.190      0.146      0.129      0.075       0.044
ATTACHMENT 3A OTHER INDICATORS- 5 YEAR POINT ELASTICITIES
1983-85    1984-89    1985-90    1986-91    1987-92    1988-93    1989-94    1990-95
_______ -------       ------      -------.   -- - -     -------     -------  _ __.    __. . .. ....... r 
105 MGNFS (GOP                     -0.181      0.449      0.457       0.520      0.591      0.691       0.766            b
01-4
V ,



*$IXL PROJECTION: THE GAMUEA
RECOVERY SCEkNIIOIMAINI   BASE PEAR 1233 ( NO CON FROO  99359
SLOOAEY TABLES
1933        1914        leas        lose        1937        5933        igug         inco        sets        592         1903        19A         1999
ATTACHMUENT 3C  BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (MILLIONS OF D1aLLARS)                                                                                      3E Of PAvHEIVTS lIMILLIWIS OF DOCULSESI
297 ExPG'5              109.600    107.459        32.619      17.128      99.376    106.612    119.2*10    130.341        '40.I59    149.476    159 49.4    170. 143    1131.134
162 EXPG                 34.300      338.631      02.149      08.667      71.271      30.287      33.022       94.102     102.02A    105-226    116.236    1223.390    121 960
3299 TmP4PG              140.970    144.148    121.510    127.111    126.2386    144.901    154.194           119.240     1723. 30     13d.1.24    137.121    al.5        221.009
ING IMPG                  0.000      111.670      33.194      92.431      94.662     102.749      114.090     126-697     131.770     149.490    161 123    172.627    lItuil7
194 NFTCTA                2.600        2.400       2.60M       2.900       4.309       4.714        9.310       1.334       6.261       3 371       7 424       3 Q13       3. 6450
209 CUIBAL              -22.370    -24,3369    -35.491    -29.5832    -22.200    -21.505          -21.305    -23.3119     -27.226      -28.S11    -20 242    -322.0        -2. 112
122 aSTGRT               35.200      30.400       29.900      37.330      321.300     27.200,    29.000        40.700      42.979      A.sin 3     as 4365     43 246      10 230
197 NE TOF!              -O. 100      -0. 110     -0. 113     -0.126       *0.131      -0.144      -0. 114     -0. 163     -o 174      -0.13il     -0 ins      -Q 19"      -0.20-'
104 HFrMLT               42.600       10.067       7.976      14.231      12 4650      1.906       -0.004      -4.951      -6.970      -I 706      -3.35.4     -9.206       -9.223
219 OTHcAP                0.000       *6.070      -2.267    -99.437      -27.260    - 10. 0W      -11.231    -II 114    -12.112    -12.631    -42 tel    - 12 649          -A 1.216S
250, GAPFIL               0.000        0.002       0.000       0.004      22.021        2.007       1.200       3.741      12.462       is Sao      13 £07     22.649       27.781
21A NTIGAP                 0.000       0.002      -0.000       0.000      22.035       -1.097       2.078       4.9259      2 612        1.412      1 942        7 QII       7 921
202 DESLEV                 2.900       2.900       2.900W       2.900       2. 00       2.100       2.900       2. 90       2 900        2 SOw       2 900       2.900       2.900o
263 RES/N                  0.000       0.241       0.2116      0.27*       0.251        0.240       0.226       0.210       0.200       0 lag       0 17r7       0 561       0.195.
NATIOINAL ACCOUNTS (MILLIONS OF OALA5IS.  1112 CONSTANT PRIICES)                                                                                 LIONWS OF OALSSIS. '982 COi3T&i4t nxZcrsl
226 GOP                 927.6GM      437.941    441.334    473.534    494.989    111.600    929. 185    947. 964    169.791    914 g36    304.837    621 4A0    646 741
221 TTADdJ                 0.000      31.662      14.4514      4.320        3.9464     11.102      10.072       2.5a2      -5.713      -2 271       -4 343      -6.622      -U CM
227 COY                 127.600    919.603    460.239          3.316A    112.111    126.902    129.257    S50.745    164 029    598.716    S00 020    6i9 0le    913 702
231 CC                    64.900      74.370      63.Sau      79.425      55.709       16.290      11.716      16.406      60 753       13 714     67 2-56      70.7355     75 497
19 HNGNS                3222.900    292.220    202.000    214.000    217.740    224.04?    320.110    222.140    229 962    343 305    297 325    267.1467    377.622
229 XTTAOJ              269.100   -273.442   -219.431   -224.1571   -262.022   -217.717   -272.3294   -276.112   -276.736   -234 590   -290 579   -296.732   -203 206
962 XGNFS              -299.300   -246.730   -209.000   -230.243   -242.461   -232.619   -262.222   -272.170   -260.5t4   -237.361   495S J22   -202 204   -219.211
240 RA                     0.000    594.431    942.324    162.2119    161.269    533.252    134.972    607.i94    624.3106    643 420    64  237    68S9. W03    712.119
229 C                   475.700    516.619    447.286    454.100    476.143    492.199    601.195    310. 133    924.944    541.760    160.091    5731.962    53H.9507
246 GC                   10-4.900    115.4300    112.700    112.700    112.700    112.700         592.700     912.700     112.700      112.700    112.700      112 TOO    512 700
249 PC                  311.600    401.631       224.186    341.400    3623134   379.31!    233.495    291.413    411l8A4    429.060    647 291    4S6 262    A3S 301Y
226 I                    196.200      77.796      94.145    106.539       92.717       30.637      92.773      96.345    100.261    103.670    107.139         110.141    114.612ar'
920 CHOSTIM                4.200    -10.024        2.269       8.173        4.114       4.203       4.246       4.4919      4.643       4.&0i        4 972       1 152       1 313          
241 fitS                 91.100        2.913     112.999      26.164      27.003       14.247      23.062      40.SS7      21.495       nee "a       1We31      40.006      £019I5S
262 FS'        ~         -22.300    -19.506      -I411.611   -13. 536    -42.660    -10.313        -3.692      -7.114      -4.243       -2.340      -2.225      -2.9,42     -2.131
242 CT                     1.400       4.7238       .143       4.462        2.226       3.346       2.471       3.601       2. 613       2.325       2 172       a 124       4.2833
241 GHS                  $2.200       -7.352       6.499      20.041      27.934      26.375       22.3A2      27.004      21.930      39.640      4.0.181s    41.212       49.331
246 GNP                 503.300    472.422    424. 163    451.343    482.340    500.932    320.432    940.010    541.409    541.143    601 543    622 476    6A4.097
247 GNY                 5093.200    104.093    443.9332    419.673        o  10090    116.064    S30.343    942.999       199.690    577.871    94. 709    61I6.054    626.039



1Sl1  PEOUFCTION: THE flAtA
UECOVERT SCMAE41O(MAIM)   EASE YEAR 1963 I NO CON 130  19651
S14ARY TABLES 
1913       1981        1165        l96        tisl        113         1039       1990        t991         692       112        1991       It9
.....     ....        ---        ---                     ---        ---         .....                   -- --       -          - --         -
DP r SFCTO. OF o0114N ICOSSTANT PRICES)                                                                                                    IN ICOISTINT fleES)
222 75GMt               31v.300    151.627    143.136    f65.322    170.651    176.071    131.70W    167.50    123.521    99.7iJ   206.104    192.700    219.5,0X
221 YIND                41.700      46.15?      *1.111      44.404     46.402      46.305      50.26!     52.347      54.493      5J.727    51.06)      01.474      63.695
223 YOTH               211.100    t15.371    191.391    114.232    204.972    211.941    213.147    221.591    234.302    241.25S   20.5CS    251t.0'23    267.X30
224 GOPfC              460.700    412.15 l      76.141    107951    421.916    436.231        191.13.    4566461    l2.II    436.709   91.5663    933.13`7   55 1.31
225 INOTAA               U.904      14.712      67.U6"      70.577     73.004      75.413      74.047      20.691     52.441      66.277    59.210      92-24J      M.310
226 GOP                127.600    487.941    441.124    476.634    494.916    111.300   1529.1S5    647.164    145.717    U4.Ut6   604.672    12S.440    666 I11
ATTACENT 3A  NATioWAL ACCWITSAANJAL WROWTH RA1ES                                                                                           ;. ACCfl.TS(ThAWJAL e1TH RATES
226 CODP                            -7.117      -C.620       7.235      2.42        3.2.96      2 .27      3.17        2.214       2.9        2.0        2.40        I.401
222 YAGR                           *22.600 Ct    .5 .       15.500      32.00       2.200       3.200       3 200     32200        3 200    32.00       03 2CD       3.200
229 VIND                             1.000      -6. no       2.000      4.S0U       1.100       4 100       4.100      4.100       4.fCO      4. tCO     4. tC       1 10O
223 YOTH                            -1.700    -10.90         3.300      3.4         2.100        .4W3       2.*QO      3 4QQ       3.*00      3.400      3.00 W      3*00
239 C                                6.616    -13.432        1.824      4.942       3.259       1.714       1.724      2.11t       2.232      3.324      2.Sl        3.276
226 I                              -22.469      24.105      12.0'7    -14.301      -2.179       2.329       3.196      3.219       3.400      2.000      3.401       3.402
162 XGNfS                           -5.012    -16.630       12.315      5.742       3.766       2.43        2.907      2.915       2.619     2.627       2.62.       2.642
115 CGNFs                            9.063    -14.242        2.C30       1.1n1      1.191       1.246       1.356      2.106       2.575     2.736       2.720       2.736
ATTACtUFNT 32  NATIONAL ACCC.DTS-AS PERCENT OF CDO    ( 2261                                                                                '_CCOUNTS-AS  *aCEWT OF Ca 2")
.  -. .  -. -.   --.                                                           , .......................................,,............     -  -- -- -- -- ---  --------------
226 cott                900.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.Moo        100000,   t0.000   t100.000    100.000   t00 00           00.000    100.000             0
222 r4GR                 31.130     31.075      22.f106     24.547     34.464      3J.J02      24.337      34.271     31.20.      34 140   2.4.074      24.0       23.942
221 YIND                  J.142      9.460       9.670       2.279      9.274       1.436       9.502      1S.16       1.632       9.697     9.763       921         S.9S"
222 7OTH                 41.528     44.140      43.043      41.425     41.409      41,411      41.412      41.413     41.414      41.414    41C4ti      41.413      41.414
239 C                   90.153    106.691    100.326        94.234      94.274     64.240      94.711     93.242      92.715      92.611    32.u17      92. "9      92.54C
226 1                    21.126      15.944     21.656      22.606      11.731     17.721      17.1        17.721      17.722     17.722    17.722      17.722      17.722
162 XGNSl              -49.242    -60.171    -45.961    -45.115    -49.56I   -46.325          -49.571    -49.015    -49.512    -46.208   -48.J10    -43.478    -41.122
INS IIFIS                I.291      72.410      67.923    651617       64.691    65.319 3       2.003     60.779      60.019      59.541    39.159      1.T79       s5.1"
272 GN5XTT                0.000      -3.096     -1.793      32.23        1.622      2.300       4.303       6.106      7.i61        * 3S7    7.110       7.617       7.712
ATTACHMENT 32  OTHER 1NDICATOR       5 YEll 106                                                                                            ICA*6        £ CTEAS IC# 2 
212 ICORSY               0.000       0.000       0.000       0.000      0.000    -3t.041       11.217       4.754      b.520       9.272     s.21s       5.214       1.212
tE111 o0  TRAOE
l66 XPRICE               0.000    106.312       69769      16.723      96.960      92.773    105.114    110. 172    114.t54    111.7t 1 122.272    12R         3.5040  220.5
l69 MPRICE               0.000      93.597      18.794     66.634      67.434      92.700    100.211   160.264    115.250    120.452   t25.192    131."57    127. 54
t1o TTIIOX               0.000    t11.729    109.004    102.423    109.751    107.629    104.696         101.649      1.222       ".6S"    97.2913      97.3*t    16.711



UlSiL POIICTICN:  TM  tASIl
dMC00l3  SCIC 11DOIfhWA)   BAS! EAIl 162 I t°CO  Fo30  1361
a11        te11,4     Il"                    te9,          e          e        low  t       1         t"         n,         l          s
.. ..,........._.... ....  ....   . ....  ----   .....   ....         .....                --__        ---      ---    . _ . ......    ....
1AFSS-CUILLIOtS OF OALASII. 1943 C TM           IS)                                                                                    344351. '23 e14S7  PUNCh)
............ ......................... . ..... ...... ..                                    .                                           ...~   ----..----...-------....--------..--.. ... .....
1t2  CR294             6a.0m    3g.600 m      3.7Cc       23.600     dots        fl40.ood   41.600     1-4.41      l6.0        S113   60.379        62 13s     SE04
233 Fl54                 2.300      4.100       1.000      6.60       59o6        9.414     10t243      10.311     1.t09       121 "    12.713    1t.107        is-SXt
124 REfIPT             t37.500    140.500    tttII.SO t0 .0          1316.00    126SOm     t19.60      114.440    147. no .10 246  t53.fl    ISO.             'h ia7
1IJ KUAMJF               330C        1000       3.400      3.WK0 3.s1             3.607      3.164       4.24       4.2CM       4.471    1.6am        .4"       S 1044
940  0tmw                0.to       0.SW        0.o        0.62S       0.613      0.611      0.713       0.741      0.771       0.ltd    0.51        0. s       0."
t4t X100S              107.400    201.300    tC0.5oo    17S.T75    1S.400    137.5"7    20.024    214111m   220.785    226.242   o22015           37241d     242.J  3
141  NFMS               52.400     41.460      44.SOO     S1.650     63.06Y      14.654     14.277      17.        3.1.726     41.1 6512   3.623    ".24.      67.222
162 I'Ws              -S1.10O   -244.710   -011.000   -230.245   -243.4S1  -3112.61   -262.222   -272.170   -220.514   -217.1"   235  422   -320.204   -311.213
aPOu1S-(mLLIuNS oU CU0tIt US COtLAN)                                                                                                   JSEKT US Cotal1
.. .............. ......... ...... ... ... ...... .......... .. ......                                  ....... .......
iti ExGaFo               00.0     231.834      16.106      5.011      12.34      14.210     17.075      30.426     22722       24.901   27.0 M.507              2n.774
152 3x1tFs              0.000       9.371       2.1t3      2.732      2-972       5.157      4.060       4.6tt      1.130      1.710    ens°    6.10            7.650
113 REEXP              0000       14.057      42. 170     0.362      U. 226     40.161      4.2371     66.246     71.4H1      75.Is.   75.021    L33.057      *7.202
S"  EAPUAn               0-to         115       1.424      1.035 1     1.715      9.611      2.132       2.376      2.611       2.627    2.061       2 314       .15U8
ISO EXPOCO               0.000 a.9 4           0.247       0.267      0.72n       0.324      0.J74       0.412      0.451       0.501    0A545       0.192      0.644
163 ExPGO                4.200     $4.637     *3.14S      64.447     *4.27t      20.247     u.n02        tt.102    102.634    10-226   164 .226    1235 f     13.1560
too ExP"iEs             21.300     l6. 25      13.723     22.562     24.040      27.437     30.292    32.264       25.312      2.5 4m.64.6          44.625     47.693
t64 ExPaw              1011.00    107.026      31.592     07.061     ".211    10w7.774    I3. 23       31.4ut    16.947    148.124  jS7.9A    166.43S    175.773
EAPOTS  ICONSIANT PIICES1-WU46L GOTH RATES                                                                                            CESI-ll6JIL a*. VTN RATES
.,  ,......,..... ...  ,_...............................  _......_. .                                                                               --- --- ---
132 CRNONt                        -16.242    -35.724       2.39       26.t00     t00.00      t0.0C      I0.000      A.540       2.000    3.0ow       2.000      3.00O
123 FISH                           42.424      44U.56     22.657      6.000       6.000      6.000       *.OW       6.000 7to  s*co                  Cow tOCo
124  1EEXP?                         2.122    -16.157      12.247       1.94       2.014      1.017       1.577      2.00m                3.000       2.000      2.000           3
15 XZNAMJF                         -3.2S0      12.232      2.S4t      4.S00       4.t00      4.100       4.t00      4.ICO       0.*00    4.100       49 M0      4.100
t4O xzatif                        -1C."?7    20.000        4.167      4.500       4.500      4.500       4.500      4 A.0       4.-00    4.500       4.500      4. SOO 
lei    00OOOS                      -2.649    -20.26       19.25       6.533       2.560      4.071       4.115      2.191       3.616    2.125       2. 14      2.544
141 KIWS                          -11.206      -2.1IS     1.775       32.0        2.000      3.000       3.000      2.3         2.000 33-000         2.00D     32.O0          *1
162  OWES                          -1.093    -96.150      2ISls       1.742       6.7        3.343       2.907      2.91        2.610    2-.27       2.634      2.6.42 
LA



boIML PROJECTION  1THE GAMBIA
AECOVEUW SCENARIOI(AIN)   BASE YEiA  1953 4 NO C03 FROM 19851
SLAiRY TABLES                                                                                                          LJA  31*81LES
w9in        1984        is98        t956        137         ¶St8        1969        1990        1i4-         g;        133         4.          !S
.....       ----        .   __.               . .....    .... . ..  ....  ...... ----.                                                         ..... --....--. ..
ATTACtMENT 2S  COHPOSITION OF EXPORTS-AS PERCENT OF XkD55S ( 13') 7)i CS E1PW75-AS  EiEwI Co *DoWi tO 11
.    _.. .   .     ........... .. ..... . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .     .... . .
161  XGOOOS             100.000     100.000    100W.O        (00.000    100.000    400 000    *00.OO         C00.000    ICC 0C0      too cCC   '00 000    tC00 CCC        OXCC
270 PIMRX                0.000      96.5:0      97.882      91.042      96.079      9a 077       98.016      25 077       Mo.0s5    98 025    37.f34        5' 34.8     27 §33
129 IUAIUF                1.342       1.430       2.11*        1.9U5       I 921       1.9:3       * 924       1.923       1 945       1 9T5      2 OcO       2.00S       2057
ATTACHIFNT 3C  EXTERt4L TRAOE AND POICES-ANNUAL flOVTH RAVES                                                                                    L_ TEAU  LtD 1IrCES-LIfsIt e2WOTM SATES
.    __.... .....    . ..... ........ ................. .......................... __.. ._.
l6e  GOOOS                          -2.941    -20.274       11.353       1.132       3.343       A 075        4  5SS      2 334       2  55     2 3Z3        2 72.8      2 648
270 P01572                                      -20.777       11.537       6.573       3           I67  * 075  4.154       2.141       2 48       2 13;       2 1S2         3  2i
139 XHAMUF                           -6.250      -3.333       2.941       4. SO       4.100       4 100        4 100       4 100       4 100     * ¶00        * *no       I TNo
484 3C0005                          30.73S    -11.114        6.743        I 424      2.375        2 711       2.6n        2 gs 33 3C'73          2 122       3.C9'       3.2.
165 3F00                             2.6235    -1S.371       -2.167       2L532       2.469        2 11O       2 443       2.533       2 4*4     2.546        2 4*1       2 S1o
167 SPET                             32.813       3.529      20.455       3.095       3.057       3.057        3.058       3 095       3 ff9     I 013        3 OS;       2  tWi
l6g SCAP                             2S.532     -32.129      2, 162    -10.133       -2.261       3.227        3 228       3 225       3 229      222-3       3 230       2 231
158 XPRICI                                      -t0.645      -3.323       5.444       3-974      5S254         4.542       3.795          I11     3.1Sf       3 573       3 "
169 SPlICE                                       -5.132      -2.422       0.822       6.023       6 ICE        3.132       6.755       4 313     4 527        d 525       4 53*
490 TINUX                                      -5.11       -6.035        7.155     -1.933       -2 549      -3 070      -2.407      -0 672    -0 5'        -0.653         GM-SOO
tWPORts-1IS1t10N5 OF 0ALA515. 1953 CONSTANT PRICES)                                                                                             ALASIS.  99l3 CCMTA,7 910S6                  IC
165 m5n7o                53.500    114.500       96.90       94. 6O      97.200      n6.60       102.100    104.600    407.250    rog.904   112 7:0         1 E SO    III *Z
172 fOCONG               63.500      69.900      56.200      53.900      57.069      59.350      60.564       61.126      63.833      64 237   43 748        7t IN      74 *9
167 59E7                 32.000      42.500      44.000      53.000      54.640      56.240      58.032       59.S06      51.635      63 521   65 '6'       47 *eJ       WS.3"
468 MINT                 24.800        3.400     17. 20      20.900      21.746      22.54       23 371      24 244      21 t13      26 OS6   27 023       25 0A 5      23.0)9
169 SCAP                 37.600      47.200      31.700      40.000      35.611      34.655      35 953       37 144      38 343      39 522    *0 5S0      12 160      42 1S2
314 30GO5               224.500    293.500    246.000    262.  0    2"64.3J0    272.607    210.060    217 620    296 202    30%.320    314.5;5    324.547    31J86Z2
170 WNFS                 61.900      59.520      57.000      51.400      51.400      51.400      4.500        44.940      432360      43 OO    43* a0m       3 Om       *3 00
IS5 WCJFs               323.900    353.320    303.000    314.000    317.740    324.067    323 110    332 560    331.542    341.320    397 635    247.967    377 622
IWPOITS-WINLLIONS OF CURRENT US5 DOLLARS)                                                                                                      tSIEN7 US1 bcxA.11l
176 I1FFO7                0.000      43.830      23.260      32.459      34.130      35.493      40.210      4S.120       50.173      53.675    17.461      61 453      65s0 a             C
179 I1PCC                 o. er      27.007      21.693      21.134      24.711      27.374      30.106      32.567       35.857      33 699    41.790      a5 III      as.6 u             _
1t0 IMPPET                0.tflI     14.546      12.022      41.414       3.764       40.506     41.829       12.945      1s.143      15.6t0   17.230       19.01*      20.942          -
ISO IMtNT                 oCoro       7.666       7.352       9.45!      10.221      11.340       12 5Sl      13.956      15.234      16 452    17.774      13.167      20.563          ,.
452 lYtPCAP               '1.cO      1.6so       I S.64      17.540      16.762       M7.530      19.362     21.255       23.322      25.025    20.670      25.547      30.1771
INS I1PG                      0    111.670       53.734      92.411      94.663    102.749    114.090    126.697         133.770    143 430  161 125    113.627        157.117
153 t PIPF$ S.                       24.200      24.034      22.539      24.157      25.543      25.65S      25.574       21.363      27.190   26.277        2 403      30.58*
487 IMPGNF                 '.700    435 570    112.528    115.020    118.820    125.996    139.943          152.572    1615.133    176.650   l5. 405    203.031    217.702



TO:DAKAR
K AOLACK6                '-,,BELANE
/                                                                          KAF FRiNM
FOUOOUGNE
;          /              Ir\                    z1        \/\I 
IORO                           -,RI
'  }I                     NAR  NJAK  DA
I             ~     ~/   I          I        /_        ,
KARANG                     />     )           /     1               i
-_ '  -~O) JOWARA   NJAJ DA  !                         DIM        \ A "-
80DVrN BARRA *                                                                            (          > Av
KomboSIM          *    B      Lt4Cirewnn                       WAN Movern_-ejd             -r*                            _ O
SARA JOB KtI           BAJ LV    -r erw-a/nANAT
SUKUlK-                        - -                                                                                 IAPPE° r
,f   \)_/   / /  b/  #,1    >r-      /Z      TANKULAR         } -WEt2   k4 rl~                      e a
| 8 gN -_ Sj-dfA'RAN-rABAVr Q WrN
, txB r                                                Y Sht                      o         n s q 1l o 1.  k   JA.ABA  DIAMAKOUTA
GUNJUR
KARTVW t I/
LtOOUtOU                                                                        ILI
_,,.                    \      Sw                    E                      Nupn.wwEE                                         G
~~~~~~ *~~~~~~~~~ILINKi
1 P 1h. fi1
u~sflc_0*  _wm
1_d Rh u__                                                      _
r.._.nfr \.
pu' U 'u, _ts _. _r mu0BiNa-_
_                                  \      ~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~TOI'
ZGUINCHOR        I 16HK
A*au-.Itu-..apnmo,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S



I BR D11922R3
_A A R I KI A N t A
GAMBIA   .Z I-             M  A t I        f
- JH  _  -  4 ?        f I(1014KINA
FSW   GL                         V A S L - fItRkA >  _r
-,                                                             .LIINt A   ?I      I  I   -
/ KONI.LHFUL                                                                7. r -       r
\   /                                                                                  f l I V 1  111 R F  GHANA
\ \ WNORA v-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D d9. Att
r~~~    ~~        'KN13 \                                                                    If
_;§>  ^-9\    f.,  -   /  *             ,   MAKA    1              14                    /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%  ALM
PAt - J
N                                                                                      A-,1" SeANANSANG  r  I o  iAIAWRL\   J TO
I       9s X   -_    J ~DIABUiOU -%           TUr ; #1||s     >{-<-F[)°
I           -~~~~~{/<   w\-tSSAAe 
I                                            q GAM6ISSARAV     /    '\              9 
A ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~            W
,-        THE GAMBIA C
NAANGLA/LOCAL GOVERNMENT AREA5
I                           ____  ~~~~~~~~DIVISION  8OUNDARIES 
e -~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES 
I  I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            AF l;
2  KOLDIX                                         PAVED ROAKDSKA
----   /                                        -         ~~~~~~~~~~~~OTHER PRINCIPAL ROADS
'   _/        5    Cl~~~~~~ 5    10   15   20   25
AA1-                          Mlsts_  SECONDARY ROADS
s  0   5  10  15 20 25
:,   KiIrometcvJ                                                                                       148
JULY 1986



