OFFICIAL
DO CUM EWfS FRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-22 GM
African Facility Credit
Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Dated                              , 2A  1986


﻿AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-22 GM
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            beJML4    2       , 1986, between
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY
FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA (the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (IDA) have established by their Resolu-
tion No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985 (the Resolution), a Special
Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility) consti-
tuted by the funds which shall be contributed by the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and
other donors and administered by IDA, acting as Administrator of
the African Facility, for the purpose of, and in accordance with,
the provisions of the Resolution;
(B) the Administrator has receiv'. a letter dated August 1,
1986  from   the  Borrower  describing   a  program  of  actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment
of the Borrower's economy (the Program), declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Administrator in the financing of urgently
needed imports required during such execution and the Administra-
tor has determined that such assistance would be in accordance
with the provisions of the Resolution;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Program and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA (the
Development Credit Agreement), IDA is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to four
million   three   hundred    thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 4,300,000) (the IDA. Credit);
(D)   the Borrower has also requested IDA as Administrator of
Special Joint Financing from the United Kingdom (the U.K. Grant
Administrator) to provide additional assistance towards the
financing of the Program under the Special Joint Financing
Agreement for the Special African Facility, and the U.K. Grant
Administrator is agreeing to provide such assistance in an amount
of three million Pounds Sterling (E3,000,000); and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the African Facility Credit in
two tranches to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The   "General  Conditions   Applicable  to
Development Credit Agreements" of the International Development
Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement:
(a) the term "Association", when used in the General Condi-
tions, means the International Development Association acting as
Administrator of the African Facility, except in the phrase
"member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and
6.02 (e) thereof;
(b)  the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", when used     in  the  General Conditions, are
amended to read "African Facility Credit Agreement", "African
Facility Credit" and "African Facility Credit Account", respec-
tively;
(c) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
'"Project" means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility
Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
African Facility Credit Agreement.';
(d) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(e) the second sentence of Section 5.01 is deleted;
(f) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity; and
(g) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:


﻿-3 -
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Administrator, the Borrower shall pre-
pare and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request, on the execution of the program referred to in
the Preamble to the African Facility Credit Agreement, the
performance by the Borrower and the Administrator of their
respective obligations under the African Facility Credit
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
African Facility Credit."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA with
respect to which the terms and conditions of membership are those
prescribed it the Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries
whose names are listed in Part II of Schedule A to those
Articles;
(b) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classi-
fication, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev.2
(1981);
(c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(d) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA for the Project,
as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of IDA, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Development Credit Agreement;
(e) "GCDB" means the Gambia Commercial and Development
Bank;
(f) "GPMB" means the Gambia Produce Marketing Board;


﻿-4-
(g) "GPA" means the Gambia Port Authority;
(h) "GUC" means the Gambia Utilities Corporation;
(i) "CBG" means the Central Bank of the Gambia.
AITICLE II
The African Facility Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the
Borrower on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the African Facility Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nine million eight hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the African Facility Credit
may be withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to timc by agreement
between the Borrower and the Administrator.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories of: (i) any Part II member of IDA; (ii) any country
designated by the Administrator as meeting the provisions set
forth in paragraph 4 (f) (ii) and (iii) of the Resolution.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in Pounds Sterling a special account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Acc9unt shall be made irn accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such lat,r
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the African Facility Credit not
withdrawn from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the African Facility


﻿-5-
Credit Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the African Facility Credit
Account 6r shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the amount withdrawn from the African Facility Credit
Account and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amount of the African Facility Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15,
1996 and ending June 15, 2036. Each installment to and including
the installment payable on June 15, 2006 shall be one-half of one
per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of The United Kingdom and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Central Bank of the Gambia (CBG) is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the CBG with responsibility for the
preparation of withdrawal applications under the African Facility
Credit and for the collection of the documents and other evidence
to be furnished to the Administrator in support of such applica-
tions; such withdrawal applications shall to the extent practic-


﻿-6-
able be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate
amounts of not less than three hundred thousand Pounds Sterling
(E300,000).
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying .ut the Program, the Bor-
rower9s arrangements to monitor such progress and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Administrator for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in
such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the African Facility Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement subject to the
eligibility restriction set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section, including the Special
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accord-
ance with appropriate auditing principles consis-
tently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Administrator;
(ii) furnish to the Administrator as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such


﻿-7-
scope and in such detail as the Administrator
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Administrator such other informa-
tion concerning said accounts and the audit
thereof as the Administrator shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the African Facility Credit Account were made on the basis
of stqtements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to oe maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Adminis-
trator has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
African Facility Credit Azcount was made, all
records   (contracts,  orders,  invoices,   bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable   the   Administrator's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annui. audits referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the African Facility Credit withdrawn in
respect of such expenditures were used for the
purposes for which they were provided.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that an event has occurred which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the African Facility
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA drecide to terminate the functions of IDA as Administrator of
the African Facility pursuant to paragraph 10 of the Resolution,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, designate
another party which, on the date specified in such notice, shall
assume part or all of the rights and obligations of the Adminis-
trator under this Agreement in accordance with the Resolution and
such decision of the Executive Directors, as specified in such
notice.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Trade of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For thr- Borrower:
The Minister of Finance and Trade
The Quadrangle
Banjul
The Republic of The Gambia


﻿-9-
Cable address:                          Telex:
MINFIN                              2264 GV MINFIN
The Republic of The Gambia
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the African Facility
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D,C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                          Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY FOR
SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
African Facility Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the African Facility Credit may be
withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
112         -               Alcoholic beverages
121         -               Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122         -               Tobacco, manufactured
667         -               Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
668         -               Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718      718.7              Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, n.e.s.
897      897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)


﻿- 11 -
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
-        971.0              Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to April 1, 1986;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Administrator shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(g) expenditures for petroleum products and foodstuffs
after proceeds of the Credit and the African Facility Credit in
an aggregate amount equivalent to SDR 3,525,000 for petroleum
products and SDR 7,050,000 for foodstuffs have been withdrawn
from the Credit Account and the African Facility Credit Account.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the African Facility Credit after the aggregate of: (A) the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account, (B) the
proceeds of the African Facility Credit withdrawn from the
African Facility Credit Account, and (C) the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 8,10),000
unless the Administrator shall be satisfied, after an exchange of
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement:
(a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; and
(b)  that the actiona described in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement  have   been  taken   and  are  satisfactory   to  the
Administrator.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Schedule: (i) con-
tracts for goods to be procured by public entities and contracts
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more
each, shall be awarded through international competitive bidding
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines); and (ii) contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $250,000 each, shall be awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Section III of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or
to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii)  an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii)  a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:


﻿- 13 -
"As  a  further   alternative, bidding   documents  may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single
currency widely used in international trade and specified in
the bidding documents."
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods to be procured by private entities,
contracts for foodstuffs and petroleum products, commonly traded
on the international market, shall be awarded on the basis of the
normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph I of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the African Facility
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the African Facility
Credit Account in respect thereof, such documentation and
information as the Administrator may reasonably request to
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of such contract
or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Administrator pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or para-
graph 4 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished
to the Administrator as part of the evidence required under para-
graph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Administrator has
authorized withdrawals from the African Facility Credit Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
(a) Adoption of a public administration reform program
agreed with the Administrator;
(b) reduction of the number of civil service posts by at
least 14% and temporary government workers by 340;
(c) adoption of a three-year rolling public investment
program for 1986-1989;
(d) approval of a reform program       for the agricultural
credit system;
(e) agreement with the Administrator on a groundnut
producer price policy and,marketing arrangements for 1987/88 with
a view to effecting a sharp reduction in potential budgetary
transfers to GPMB and their essential elimination in subsequent
years:
(f) signing of performance contracts with GPMB, GUC and
GPA;
(g) completion of a plan for divestiture and rationaliza-
tion of the parapublic sector;
(h) promulgation of a revised Investment Code (Development
Act);
(i) establishment of a government-held managed fund for all
government guaranteed GCDB loans; and
(j) review   of   a  duty  drawback   system  applicable   to
manufactured exports.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the African Facility Credit in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b) the   term  "Authorized   Allocation"  means  an  amount
equivalent to one million five hundred thousand Pounds Sterling
(E1,500,000) to be withdrawn from the African Facility Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Administrator shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the African Facility Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator re-
quests for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals
as the Administrator shall specify. On the basis of such
requests, the Administrator shall withdraw from the African
Facility Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. Each such deposit
shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the African Facility
Credit Account in the respective equivalent amounts as shall have
been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 16 -
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Administrator when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Administrator shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the African Facility Credit Account
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)  the  total  unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  African
Facility   Credit,   less   the   amount   of  any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Program,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the African Facility Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the African
Facility Credit shall follow such procedures as the Administrator
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice have
been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.   (a)  If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Administator shall so request,


﻿- 17 -
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. No further deposit by the Administator into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
(b) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
refund to the Administator such outstanding amount for crediting
to the African Facility Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


