OFFICIAL
DCCUMENTc, 2CREDIT NUMBER 1730 GM
Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                jeo,-, 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1730 GM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     1       , 1986, between
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
August 1, 1986 from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment
of the Borrower's economy (the Program), declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently
needed imports required during such execution;
(B) the   Borrower  has  also  requested  th.2 Association,
acting as Administrator of a Special Facility tor Sub-Saharan
Africa (SAF) established by its Executive Directoris by Resolution
No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, to provide additional assistance in
support of the Program, and by an agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Association (the African Facility
Credit Agreement), the Association is agreeing to provide such
assistance in the aggregate principal amount of nine million
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,800,000);
(C) the Borrower has also requested the Association as
Administrator of Special Joint Financing from the United Kingdom
(the U.K. Grant Administrator) to provide additional assistance
towards the financing of the Program under the Special Joint
Financing Agreement for the Special African Facility, and the
U.K. Grant Administrator is agreeing to provide such assistance
in an amount of three million Pounds Sterling (E3,000,000); and
(D) on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, the Associa-
tion has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in two tranches
as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,


﻿- 2 -
1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
'"Project" means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant
to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.';
(b) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble
to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev.2
(1981);
(b) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c) "GCDB" means the Gambia Commercial and Development
Bank;
(d) "GPMB" means the Gambia Produce Marketing Board;


﻿-3.-
(e) "GPA" means the Gambia Port Authority;
(f) "GUC" means the Gambia Utilities Corporation; and
(g) "CBG" means the Central Bank of the Gambia.
ARTICLE Il
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agrr ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
four million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 4,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in Pounds Sterling a special account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association  shall  reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the


﻿Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 1997 and ending
August   1,  2036.    Each  installment   to  and  including   the
installment payable on August 1, 2006 shall be one-half of one
percent  (1/2   of  1%)  of  such  principal   amount, and   each
installment thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08.   The currency of The United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Central Bank of the Gambia (CBG) is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing,
the Borrower hereby entrusts CBG with responsibility for the
preparation of withdrawal applications under the Credit and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be
furnished to the Association in support of such applications;
such withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts
of not less than one hundred fifty thousand Pounds Sterling
(E150,000) equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views


﻿-5-
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, the Bor-
rower's arrangements to monitor such progress and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and the audit thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:


﻿-6-
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that an event has occurred which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Trade of the


﻿-7-
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Ministry of Finance and Trade
The Quadrangle
Banjul
The Republic of The Gambia
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINFIN                             2264 GV MINFIN
The Republic of The Gambia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
By II&         0''A-Se
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods required during the execu,ion of the Program and to be
financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
112         -               Alcoholic beverages
121         -               Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122         -               Tobacco, manufactured
667         -               Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
668         -               Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718      718.7              Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, n.e.s.
897      897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)


﻿- 10 -
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
971.0            Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to April 1, 1986;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(g) expenditures for petroleum products and foodstuffs
after proceeds of the Credit and the African Facility Credit in
aggregate amounts equivalent to (A) SDR 3,525,000 for petroleum
products, and (B) SDR 7,050,000 for foodstuffs have been
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the African Facility Credit
Account.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the African Facility Credit after the aggregate of: (A) the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account, (B) the
proceeds of the African Facility Credit withdrawn from the
African Facility Credit Account, and (C) the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 8,100,000,
unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement:
(a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; and
(b) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment have been taken and are satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Schedule: (i) con-
tracts for goods to be procured by public entities and contracts
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more
each, shall be awarded through international competitive bidding
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines); and (ii) contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $250,000, each, shall be awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Section III of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or
to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:


﻿- 12 -
"As  a  further   alternative, bidding   documents may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single
currency widely used in international trade and specified in
the bidding documents."
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods to be procured by private entities,
contracts for foodstuffs and petroleum products, commonly traded
on the international market, shall be awarded on the basis of the
normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendering procedures
followed and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association
may reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in
respect of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of such contract
or che documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or para-
graph 4 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished
to the Association as part of the evidence required under para-
graph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
(a) Adoption of a public administration reform program
agreed with the Association;
(b)  reduction of the number of civil service posts by at
least 14% and temporary government workers by 340;
(c) adoption of a three-year rolling public investment
program for 1986-1989;
(d) approval of a reform program      for the agricultural
credit system;
(e) agreement with the Association on a groundnut producer
price policy and marketing arrangements for 1987/88 with a view
to effecting a sharp reduction in potential budgetary transfers
to GPMB and their essential elimination in subsequent years;
(f) signing of perf rmance contracts with GPMB, GUC and
GPA;
(g) completion of a plan for divestiture and rationaliza-
tion of the parapublic sector;
(h) promulgation of a revised Investment Code (Development
Act);
(i) establishment of a government-held managed fund for all
government guaranteed GCDB loans; and
(j) review of a duty drawback system applicable to
manufactured exports.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to seven hundred fifty thousand Pounds Sterling
(F750,000) to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account slFll be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account in the respective equivalent
amounts as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.


﻿- 15 -
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reason-
ably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with   the   provisions   of   paragraph  (a)   of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, less
the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Program, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No


﻿- 16 -
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


