 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14630

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 06/30/2015

               Country: Argentina
             Project ID: P006043                                                     Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Ar Renew.Energy                Project Costs (US$M):            120.5 + 55.0         49.23 + 51.67
                         R.Mkts
  L/C Number:            L4454; L7617                  Loan/Credit (US$M):               30.0 + 50.0                 79.97
      Sector Board:      Energy and Mining             Cofinancing (US$M):                      10.0                  9.50

           Cofinanciers: GEF                            Board Approval Date :                              03/30/1999
                                                                Closing Date:           09/30/2005         12/31/2012
          Sector(s):       Renewable energy (89%); Sub-national government administration (11%)
          Theme(s):        Rural services and infrastructure (40% - P); Other urban development (40% - P); Other
                           financial and private sector development (20% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Dileep M. Wagle            Christopher David       Christopher David           IEGPS1
                           Nelson                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 “To (a) provide the rural areas of the Participating Provinces with reliable electric supply in a sustainable manner
through the use of renewable energy; (b) advance the reform of the Borrower’s energy sector in particular critical
areas (e.g. transmission, distribution, marketing); (c) support the Borrower’s strategy to expand the participation of the
private sector in the provision of electricity in the rural areas of the Participating Provinces, as well as strengthen the
capacity of Participating Provinces to regulate such participation; and (d) support the creation of sustainable business
operations for rural energy in Argentina. (Loan Agreement LA (Schedule 2)

There is one minor difference from the LA version in the formulation of the objectives in the Project Appraisal Report
(PAD p. 2), where the PAD refers explicitly to “using renewable energy technologies, where feasible”. Otherwise the
substance is the same.

Following normal IEG practice, the current review is based upon the objectives as formulated in the LA.

In addition, this operation incorporated objectives of the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) which (PAD, p.2) were to
(a) remove market barriers to application, implementation and dissemination of renewable energy sources, and (b)
reduce greenhouse gas emissions by replacing small-diesel electricity generation and the use of candles, kerosene
and gas cylinders in lighting and other domestic uses with renewable energy systems. As per normal IEG practice, the
achievement of these global objectives are not explicitly reviewed or rated here.

The project was restructured six times, as a result of changes resulting from the economic crisis of 2001, which led to
fiscal austerity and reduced budget allocations for government at all levels, including reduced electricity subsidies in
rural areas. Several revisions in project design were necessitated, to adapt to the changing circumstances. The
project's objective remained unchanged, however (ICR p.2).


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

Original:

 A: Electricity Generating Equipment for Rural Markets (original appraisal cost estimate - US$ 108.1 million;
additional financing cost estimate - US$49.5 million; actual cost at completion - not directly provided by the ICR):

Equipment to be installed and operated in about 8 provinces, by private concessionaires:
 (a) about 65,500 solar home systems (SHS) in dispersed rural households, (b) small off-grid electricity generating
units based on renewable energy systems (RES) (including photovoltaic, mini-hydro plants, small wind turbines,
diesel plants or hybrid plants) for provision of electricity to about 3,500 households living in small communities, and (c)
some 1,100 RES in provincial public service institutions (schools, medical centers, etc.). The additional financing
provided for some 15,500 additional solar home systems, 21 mini grids, 140 solar thermal systems, 630 PV systems
to supply schools and public services, 30 solar-powered water pumps and 2 biomass generation projects.



B: Pilot Wind Home System (WHS) sub-projects (original appraisal cost estimate - US$ 0.6 million; additional
financing cost estimate - US$0.5 million; actual cost at original completion - US$10.03 million, financed by GEF;
actual AF costs were zero.): :

This component aimed to install two 50Wp wind home systems units in two rural communities of under 100
households each. The object of the pilot was to demonstrate commercial viability and long-run economic potential of
WHS systems, so as to catalyze future development by private investors.

C: Capacity Building (original appraisal cost estimate - US$ 6.2 million; additional financing cost estimate - US$5.5
million; actual cost at completion - not directly provided by ICR):

This component included technical assistance to assist the Government of Argentina (i) in support of the on-going
reform of the power sector, (ii) in building its institutional capability for promotion and dissemination of Renewable
Energy System (RES) technology, through studies and setting of standards and certification. Also included was a
training program to strengthen the capability of provincial regulatory authorities, so that they could effectively assist
concessionaires in achieving their service provision goals. Additional activities financed by the AF included public
promotion, education and information campaigns, feasibility studies and assessment of renewable technology options
for development of mini-grids, energy sector studies, rural electrification market assessments and project
administration.

D: Project Administration (original appraisal cost estimate - US$ 5.5 million; additional financing cost estimate - no
change specified; actual cost at completion - US$0.73 million):


Additional Financing (at appraisal: US$ 55 million):



 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  The project was restructured six times. The dates and main changes introduced in the legal agreements were as
follows:
(i) February, 2001: Allowed payment of IBRD/GEF subsidy upon SHS purchase by private concesisonaires, instead
of upon system installation.
(ii) November, 2002: Increased the Bank role in financing of SHS, TA and renewable energy systems; increased the
number and capacity of SHS from 100 to 1,500 households and output from 50W to 100-300W; allowed financing of
equipment needed by Provincial Implementation units.
(iii) September, 2003: Increased loan contribution to investment costs of solar systems in schools and public
installations.
(iv) April, 2005: Allowed installations by electricity service providers other than private concessionaires; allowed
financing of solar thermal systems; increased Bank contribution to decentralized system and broader use fo GEF
grant (plus change in currency of GEF grant from SDR to US$).
(v) June, 2006: Increased loan contribution to SHS investment costs (to 100%); allowed central procurement on
request; revised implementation plan and KPIs.
(vi) October, 2007: Reallocated GEF grant proceeds to a new disbursement category, in order to fiance acquisition
and installation of wind turbines connected to mini-grids.

Project Cost: The final project cost for the original project was US$ 49.23 million, considerably lower than the original
projected cost at appraisal of US$ 120.5 million. The reduction in cost arose on account of the sharp reduction in
governmental expenditures (from US$ 24.6 million to US$ 0.15 million) that occurred as a result of the economic crisis
of 2001, accompanied by an almost negligible contribution on the part of private concessionaires. Component A, in
particular was substantially scaled back, with large (US$22.5 million instead of the planned US$79.1 million)
reductions in investments in Solar Home Systems for both schools and residential premises. By 2008, as the result of
a sustained improvement in project implementation capacity, an Additional Financing loan was approved, to scale up
the project (in effect scaling up some of the activities that had been earlier scaled back, plus some new activities).
Final project costs of US$51.67 million were much closer to additional financing estimates of US$55.0 million). This
happened because the addtional financing plan envisaged little or no contribution from local sources, including the
Government of Argentina.

Financing: The original sources of funding for this project consisted of IBRD resources of US$ 30.0 million, all of
which was disbursed. Additional financing by IBRD committed further lending of US$50 million, of which US$49.97
was disbursed. A GEF grant committed US$10.0 million to financing the project, of which US$9.5 million was
disbursed. An additional US$43.2 million was expected to materialize from private concessionaires and US$10.8
million from customers, very little (US$0.61 million from concessionaires and nothing from customers) of which
actually materialized in the wake of the economic crisis of 2001.
Borrower contribution . A substantial contribution was originally envisaged from the government (National and
Provincial), which was expected to provide US$26.5 million (of which $1.9 million equivalent would be in local
currency). On account of the sustained fiscal austerity introduced at the level of the Federal Budget, as a
consequence of the economic crisis of 2001, very little of this actually materialized at the level of the National
government, which contributed a negligible US$0.15 million by close of the original project, The provincial authorities
however contributed significantly more than anticipated (US$6.6 million vs. US$1.9 million), especially to wind
systems, mini-grids and residential solar systems, whilst educational institutions participated to the extent of US$2.37
million in support of solar systems in schools. This change in financing plan was facilitated by the various
restructurings the project went through between 2002 and 2006, detailed above. Under the Additional Financing of
2008, very little local contribution was envisaged - either from National or Provincial governments: substantively only
US$0.1 from the National government and US$4.9 million from educational institutions and provincial authorities.

Dates. The project was originally envisaged as a 6-year project with a closing date of September 30, 2005. The
closing date of September 30, 2005, was extended twice, to compensate for the impact of the crisis (six months prior
to the closing date, the project's disbursements had reached only 12.6%). Two further extensions were granted, so as
to facilitate the PDOs to be achieved, extending the closing date to December 31, 2008. A further extension to the
closing date of the Additional Financing (AF) took place, on similar grounds, extending the final closure from
December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2012. Actual implementation of the project – taking into account the AF - took
twelve years and nine months, more than twice the time originally foreseen at appraisal.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Objectives: High. The project was proposed as part of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, 1997 (CAS Report #
1605-AR). The project objectives were consistent with the World Bank’s subsequent country assistance strategy
(CAS), September 8, 2000, p.25, for the period FY01-04, of (a) supporting the promotion of private sector investment
in the power sector, whilst building up an appropriate regulatory framework for the sector, and (b) promoting
environmentally sustainable management of natural resources by modernizing the role of the public sector, especially
at the provincial level.

The project objectives were also highly relevant to the country’s developmental priorities . The Government of
Argentina had at the time made considerable progress towards developing a competitive and efficient electricity
market, the benefits of which had mostly gone to the urban population. The project was intended to address the lack
of access of rural populations to energy supply at affordable cost by developing a sustainable electricity market in
dispersed rural areas, served and financed by private concessionaires using environmentally clean technologies
where feasible. The project was restructured several times after the economic crisis of 2001. Though this followed
something of a trial and error approach (ICR, p.8), with delays in implementation (see next section), one positive
aspect was that relevance of objectives remained fairly current. By 2008, the year the original project was due to
close, project activities (continued under the Additional Financing that followed) were fully consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy for 2006-08, one of the main pillars of which was sustainable growth with equity, and later with
the Country Partnership Strategy, August 7, 2014 (see p.40 and the CAS Completion Report, pp 57-58).


 b. Relevance of Design:
Design: Substantial. The project’s activities at inception were consistent with its objectives, and the results
framework provided a reasonably clear link between funding and outcomes (both intermediate and final). Project
design, which took place at a time of economic reform in Argentina, provided strong emphasis on the project’s
developmental objective of private sector development, relying on the private concession approach, as a means of
mobilizing the resources needed to achieve a more efficient and competitive energy service delivery. The results
framework did not however take sufficient account of the impact of potential exogenous events. While it might have
been difficult to foresee the extent of the economic crisis that occurred in 2001, this aspect of project design proved
unworkable when the impact of the crisis was felt. Corrective measures were however taken thereafter – through
restructuring – de-emphasizing the private development aspect of the delivery model, and allowing for the participation
of cooperatives and public entities as concessionaires, and for the World Bank itself to take up the financing slack.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   Objective (Project): “To provide rural areas with reliable electricity supply in a sustainable manner , using
renewable technologies ; to support the creation of sustainable business operations for rural energy ; to support the
expansion of private sector participation in provision of electricity to rural areas ; and to advance reform of the energy
sector in critical areas” .

As formulated in the LA, the project objective consists of four separate objectives, each of which is assessed
separately, as follows:

Objective (a) provide the rural areas of the Participating Provinces with reliable electric supply in a sustainable
manner through the use of renewable energy
Rated - Substantial

Outcomes: Targets for total number of households served by the project were exceeded (106%) under the original
project and mostly met (96%) under the AF. The aggregate number of households served under both loans combined
was 27,478 vs the target of 27,582 (= 99.6%).

Outputs: (i) Installed SHS in households and public buildings under original and AF loans exceeded targets (17,396
vs. 15,575 or 111%; and 652 vs. 630 or 100.3%, respectively). (ii) Households served by mini-grids fell far short of
the target (actual achievement of only 130 vs. target of 2,552 or 0.05%). However, (iii) installed solar systems for
water pumping in public buildings significantly exceeded their target (188 vs. 30, i.e. 626%).


Objective (b) advance the reform of the Borrower’s energy sector in particular critical areas :
The following intermediate indicators were achieved :
Rated - Modest

Outcomes: None provided

Outputs: Original project: (i) Percent certifications of installed systems (100% achieved vs target of 95%) and (ii)
Percent of complaints attended without subsequent complaints (90% target fully achieved). AF: (i) Percent
certification of public systems (90% achieved vs. target of 95%) and (ii) Percent of complaints attended to without
subsequent complaints (98% achieved vs. target of 90%). It should be noted that these indicators, being framed in
terms of exercise of regulatory functions, were indicative of progress made in terms of regulatory capacity, but only
indirectly so in terms of the PDO objective of advancing reform in the sector it is difficult to know what progress was
made.

Objective (c) support the Borrower’s strategy to expand the participation of the private sector in the provision of
electricity in the rural areas of the Participating Provinces , as well as strengthen the capacity of Participating
Provinces to regulate such participation
Rated - Modest

Outcomes: The number of private concessionaires operating under the original project met their target (5
concessionaires =100%), and exceeded their target for the AF (8 vs. target of 4 = 200%). It should be noted however
that these were fairly modest targets, even in the original PAD, when viewed against the project's objective of raising
a substantial portion of its financing from private concessionaires (much of which did not materialize in the wake of the
crisis). Also, that the role of private sector concessionaires - which had been considered critical in the original design
- had to be modified in one of the amendments, to permit their replacement by public sector concessionaires, and the
KPI to be modified accordingly. Thus, while the targets were met in principle there is some doubt that they actually
represent any significant gain against the overall objective.

Outputs: (i) The total number of operators under the AF project reached 87.5% of target (14 vs. 16); (ii) the number of
residential systems operated by private concessionaires similarly reached 89% of target (11,485 vs. 12,950); and the
number of systems for public service operated by private concessionaires achieved 154% of target (234 vs. 151).

(d) support the creation of sustainable business operations for rural energy in Argentina
Rated - Modest

Outcomes: None provided.

Outputs: By the time of the AF, these had been framed in terms of improved subsidy allocation in off-grid rural
electricity initiatives: (i) Average tariff subsidy for residential systems were more than achieved for the original target
(76% vs. target of 70%) as well as for the AF (79% vs. 70%). (ii) Average retail tariff for households was higher than
the target for both the original project (12.3 pesos/month vs 10.0 pesos/month) and for the AF (14.73 pesos/month vs
10.0 pesos/month). Though all targets were met, it is not entirely clear how these indicators were related to the
objective and thus it is difficult to tell what progress has been made against a sustainable rural model for energy.




 5. Efficiency:
  On account of the almost complete withdrawal of the Government of Argentina from the project’s financing, project
costs at closure of the original project (See Section 2d) were significantly lower than envisaged at appraisal; though so
were the economic benefits. Although the AF, mostly undertaken with World Bank funds, brought overall project costs
more or less (95%) back to the levels envisaged at appraisal, project implementation was hugely delayed - the entire
project taking more than 12 years to implement - with consequential (significantly negative) impact on efficiency and
benefits derived.

Economic evaluation of the project at closure for the ICR, estimated an economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of
11.2%, with a net present value (NPV) of around US$ 1.14 million, based on a conservative energy-consumption
forecast of 14.5 kWh per month. The EIRR of the project at appraisal had been estimated at 12.1%, taking into
account the investment contribution of the GEF grant (and the benefits arising thereof), yielding a NPV of US$ 5.1
million. The economic analysis, conducted at appraisal and closure, was based predominantly on the residential
photovoltaic component (Solar Home Systems) that were installed by the project in 13 provinces and accounted for
about half (53%) of its total investment during the original as well as additional financing phases. However,
methodologies for estimating environmental benefits differed between evaluations at appraisal and at closure: the
former having been based on consumers’ “willingness to pay”, the latter on an avoided-cost approach; hence, the two
sets of estimates are not directly comparable

Unfortunately, the ICR provides no data on whether least cost approaches were used in implementation of the project.


Taking account of these factors, efficiency is rated as Modest.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                      12.1%                                    67%

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                      11.2%                                    53%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
  The project's objectives were deemed to be highly relevant; however, relevance of design was considered to be
substantial, on account of a design that proved unworkable when the economic crisis hit and needed to be changed.
As regards efficacy, the project's development objective of providing rural areas with reliable electricity supply in a
sustainable manner was achieved to a substantial degree. However, its other three objectives were achieved only to
a modest degree. In particular, a key original objective - of expanding private sector participation - was not really
achieved to a meaningful degree. Efficiency is rated modest, reflecting the major delays in the project's
implementation, such that an originally-envisaged implementation period of six years that took twelve years in
practice. Although some of this implementation period was accounted for by the Additional Financing, it should be
borne in mind that in reality no new funds were being added - the AF merely replacing the funds that the national and
provincial governments in Argentina were originally meant to provide. Taking account of all of the above,
achievement of overall outcome is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The project had seriously underestimated the risk to its developmental outcome at appraisal, arising from a major
exogenous shock through the macro economy (the economic crisis of 2001 and the sustained fiscal austerity it
introduced for the country), which resulted in, insufficient budget allocations to the project at the Federal level and
reduced budget allocations for rural electricity subsidies at the Provincial level. The consequence was major delays to
project execution and the reaping of economic benefits. That said, the outcomes actually achieved, in terms of
renewable energy services provided to more than 25,000 households in rural areas, appears to be potentially
sustainable. A key factor in favor of this is a regulatory framework that provides the right incentives through electricity
tariffs and subsidies. Since the institutional environment within which the project would operate (defined by the
participation agreements signed by each province and concessionaires) is reasonably stable, the risks to
development outcome would depend upon the capacity of provincial concessionaires to address technical and logistic
issues related to the provision of a satisfactory O&M and customer service, to guarantee an appropriate quality of
service. As such, the risk to ensuring a sustainable outcome for the project is deemed to be moderate.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project was generally in line with the country’s priorities, and (PAD, p.11) incorporated the then most
recent global experience of developing large-scale renewable energy resources in rural areas; though no similar
project had been financed in Argentina or any other country using concession contracts for electricity supply in
dispersed rural markets using renewable sources. It was also consistent with the ongoing reform of the Argentine
power sector. The ICR observes (p.16) that – in using a delivery model based on the dominant role of the private
sector, the design reflected the conceptual reality of its times. During appraisal, the borrower’s capacity was
evaluated fairly objectively, and implementation measures designed accordingly. On the negative side, however,
the design failed to take the nature of country risk sufficiently into account, assuming that ongoing reform efforts
would continue uninterrupted, or to incorporate an appropriate degree of flexibility, to enable it to cope with drastic
changes in economic and political conditions. This resulted in the project being starved of the local financing
contribution at both Federal and Provincial levels. Project design also failed to provide clearly defined eligibility
criteria for establishing priorities/amounts to be assigned among beneficiary provinces, with the result that
institutionally strong regions ended up at a competitive advantage, in spite of the policy orientation of the project.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The ICR mentions (p.17) that the Bank team maintained a regular presence in the field with at least two
supervision missions a year (and as many as 5 missions in 2003 and 4 in 2005, leading to an aggregate of 34
missions during the life of the project),.. The number of times the project was restructured bears testimony to the
efforts of the team to maintain the relevance of the project’s objectives during a difficult period and to address the
key constraints to achieving a positive developmental outcome – though the question could be asked why the team
did not close the project at this stage and start over with a differently designed operation. The service delivery
model was made more flexible, and better aligned to the circumstances for rural electrification at both the Federal
and Provincial levels. As a result, the project was eventually able to recover lost ground and achieve a generally
satisfactory outcome – a fact that would suggest that the Bank team was successful in taking the corrective
measures that it did and in turning the project around. That said, it could be argued that the large number of
amendments that were made were suggestive of a hit-or-miss approach, rather than an approach based on a
comprehensive understanding of the changed situation. Also, the choice of key performance indicators did not
keep pace with the frequent changes in project design, making a realistic assessment of progress difficult.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The ICR reports (p.17) that the Government of Argentina (GoA), which through its Secretariat of Energy (SE)
had initiated the Electric Supply Program for Rural Dispersed Population, maintained its support for the project
throughout most of its life, and to its objective of providing energy to rural areas. To put this in perspective, it
should be mentioned that upon commencement of the economic crisis, as part of overall austerity measures
instituted, virtually all of the Government’s budgetary allocations to the project were terminated (see Section 2d),
bringing project implementation to a virtual standstill (between late-2001 and mid-2003, overall project
disbursements increased by a mere US$350,000). These allocations were not restored to any substantive extent,
even after the crisis had dissipated, including during the period of the Additional Financing (total GoA contribution
actually amounted to just US$ 0.15 million, in lieu of the US$24.7 originally committed). The sustained fiscal
austerity experienced by the GoA led among other things to measures that weakened the organizational structure
of the Secretariat of Energy and the PCU (see below), reducing the number of employees in key functions and
causing serious delays in implementation (ICR, p.7). Temporary uncertainties on rates policies discouraged
concessionaires and delayed their procurement initiatives.

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
     As outlined in the PAD, coordination and supervision of project implementation at the national level was placed
in the hands of a National Project Coordination Unit (PCU), to be staffed with experienced consultants in project
management and private sector participation, and reporting to the National Directorate of Promotion within the SE.
Day-to-day management was to be carried out at the provincial level, but it was recognized that provincial
governments had varying capabilities and/or technical expertise to manage the project. Implementation and
supervision at the provincial level would be carried out by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), assisted by
consultants financed by the Bank and GEF. Costs of Project Administration – including both PCU and PIU – were
initially estimated to aggregate US$ 11.9 million, with US$ 1.1 million from GoA and US$ 1.9 million from
provincial governments (the rest from IBRD and GEF). After the crisis, these governmental contributions almost
entirely failed to materialize, which seriously which understandably affected the ability of the PCU to staff up and
carry out its responsibilities. Notwithstanding this, the unit did manage to build a core of qualified staff to manage
procurement and disbursement activities, and as to be able to maintain adequate management and supervision of
the project. (Project msanagement and procurement were rated Satisfactory and Moderately Satisfactory
respectively in the closing ISR). A decision was taken to centralize procurement for equipment and for
inspection/certification of works and installations, as a means of overcoming weaknesses at the provincial level,
which worked out well (ICR. p.18). In addition, the ICR notes that the management of safeguards and monitoring
revealed a learning process adapted to the changing standards of the times.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The results framework in the project appraisal document listed as many as 11 objectives and 38 indicators, not all
of which were quantified or had targets of any sort. The increased number of objectives reflected the addition of 3
CAS objectives (included for unspecified reasons) to the 4 PDOs (one of which was disaggregated into 2 objectives)
and the 2 GEF objectives. Only 14 indicators carried numerical targets; for 19 indicators (relating mostly to TA and
capacity building) targets consisted only of compliance dates, that would be easy to ascertain. Numerical data were
to be drawn from a variety of annual progress reports, from provincial governments and concessionaires,
supplemented by surveys. As the various amendments were made to the legal agreements, the KPIs were modified,
and a fully revised set of indicators included along with the fifth amendment in 2006. The Additional Financing in 2008
kept the same broad structure, introducing a new set of targets for most of the existing indicators.. As the ICR points
out (p.10), the KPIs did not all keep pace with the revisions to project design, so that some indicators that needed to
have been modified remained unchanged at project closure, despite having no achievements to report. All of this
made assessment of the real progress made under the project somewhat difficult.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   Though not all of the KPIs were quantified or measurable, especially at the outset, the PCU reportedly focused on
those indicators that were measurable, based on data submitted by the concessionaires and public utilities to the
provincial governments. By close of project, as seen from both ICR and closing ISR, the M&E framework reported
data on 10 outcome indicators (GEF included) and 21 intermediate indicators – a total of 31 indicators, 12 representing
the original project and the balance (including the original 12, but with new targets) the Additional Financing. The ICR
does not specifically report on the quality and reliability of data compiled by the PCU, but given that the indicators
were relatively straightforward (numbers of concessionaires, installed capacities, etc), there is no reason to doubt the
accuracy of the information.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR informed that data on the KPIs provided via the PCU fed regularly into the quarterly reports received by
the World Bank and was incorporated into the implementation status and results reports (ISRs) of Bank supervision
missions.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was rated Environmental Category B, in accordance with OP 4.01. Although renewable energy
technologies were expected to result in positive environmental impacts, some minor impacts related to the siting of
some technologies and management of wastes generated by maintenance/repair of equipment were identified at
appraisal. This meant that proper disposal procedures had to be put into place for some of the materials used in the
solar cells, as well as for the disposal of lead acid or nickel cadmium batteries used in SHS. Storage and handling of
diesel fluids for the small diesel sets, and the disposal of used fuels, was also envisaged to require careful attention.
At negotiations it was agreed that all of these environmental concerns would be dealt with through specific conditions
contained in the concessionaire’s contract.

Environmental compliance was rated as satisfactory throughout the project period, although an assessment
conducted by the World Bank in 2011 suggested that some sub-projects, especially for mini-grids, might have
somewhat broader environmental impacts than originally anticipated at the design stage (although no further
restructuring of the project was deemed necessary on this account).

The original project did not trigger any social safeguards. However, the ICR notes that supervision missions
concluded that impacts might encompass indigenous peoples and involuntary resettlement, as a consequence of
which the AF did trigger OP 4.10 on Indigenous Peoples, which led to enhanced attention during supervision and
development of a framework of management of indigenous populations, in order to guarantee an open consultation
process tailored to the characteristics of their culture.


 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial management (FM) was rated as generally satisfactory through the life of the project. Annual consolidated
financial reports were submitted to the World Bank in a timely manner. External audits of the project’s financial
statements were similarly mostly submitted on time, and no issues were raised. Internal controls were found to be
satisfactory.

The ICR reports (p.12) that the provision of counterpart funding was satisfactory with the exception of the crisis period.
This assessment is difficult to comprehend. To put matters into perspective, it should be noted that the volume of
counterpart funding that was actually provided, after adjustments were made during the project restructuring that
followed the crisis, was a fraction of the amount originally envisaged at appraisal (US$ 9.73 million instead of US$
80.5, by close of the original project; and US$ 1.7 million instead of US$ 4.9 million, anticipated for the period of the
AF). The bulk of this came from provincial governments and educational institutions, the amount coming from GoA
coming to a negligible US$ 0.15 million.

It was envisaged at appraisal (and specified in the PAD) that procurement arrangements for new concessionaires,
selected through international competitive bidding (ICB), would mostly follow the procurement rules of the
concessionaires themselves, and for existing concessionaires, by following World Bank guidelines. Since no new
private concessions were procured during the project, the former approach did not apply in practice. Procurement
performance was mostly rated moderately satisfactory during the life of the project. The lack of counterpart funding
around the time of the economic crisis affected procurement capacity in the PCU, compounded by institutional
weaknesses in several provinces, leading to delays in procurement of goods. The situation was addressed through
                                                        th
centralization of procurement, as approved under the 5 amendment in 2006; though this did not prevent procurement
ratings from being downgraded to moderately unsatisfactory on two occasions, requiring procurement teams to be
strengthened through addition of specialist expertise. However, the ICR notes that these weaknesses were overcome
as teams were strengthened (with some local support from the Bank’s procurement specialists).


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                        Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Moderately           Three of the projects four objectives are
                               Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory       rated modest in addition to a modest
                                                                                 rating for efficiency.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately           A lack of flexibility and planning in the
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory       design of the project made it difficult to
                                                                                 respond to the extremely difficult fiscal
                                                                                 constraints that followed.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately           The complete cessation of the
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory       Government’s financial contribution to
                                                                                 the project, not only in the form of its
                                                                                 counterpart funding obligations but also
                                                                                 budgetary allocations, seriously
                                                                                 compromised the viability of the
                                                                                 operation.

                 Quality of ICR:                            Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR provides the following key lessons:
  Importance of flexibility in Design: Setting up large-scale renewable energy systems is a medium-to-long term
    endeavor, and project design needs to be flexible enough to adapt to changing conditions. Projects designed
    in too rigid a manner or which do not take adequate cognizance of country risk factors may otherwise fail to
    perform, or otherwise require costly and time-consuming restructuring to make them work satisfactorily. The
     current project’s undue reliance on funding through private sector participation without taking account the
     potential impact of macroeconomic variables, and had the bank not been prepared to restructure and extend
     the duration of the project by several years, the operation would ended in failure.
    Proactivity: Should projects run into problems, the willingness of Bank teams to restructure the operation early
     (and, if necessary, frequently) can be the determining factor deciding between the project’s success and
     failure. This is reflected in the number of times the project was restructured in an effort to a more robust and
     appropriate service model aligned to the true capacity of public and private entities.
    Subsidies are an essential component of rural electricity projects: Dispersed rural markets, being
     characterized by high costs and low-income consumers, call for a significant subsidy to attract investors to
     install and operate renewable energy systems. However, in the interests of efficiency, such subsidies need to
     be clearly defined up front, so as to minimize uncertainties which could otherwise hamper both bidding
     processes and operational activities.

14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is generally well-written and concise. It provides a synthesis of a fairly complex storyline, taking account of
the numerous changes and extensions in closing date that the project went through. The ICR however does not bring
out with sufficient clarity the evidence base upon which its conclusions and analysis are based. It does not for
instance present all of the pertinent details relating to the changes in key performance indicators during the course of
the various amendments undergone by the project, making it difficult to independently assess the actual extent of the
success of the project in meeting its PDOs. At the same time, the ICR appears to understate the impact of the drastic
reduction in counterpart funding to the project (section 11b), which necessitated an Additional Financing operation in
2008 to make up for the shortfall (which the ICR accepts, some uncritically, as based on the need for “scaling up”).
That said, the broad lessons derived seem to be mostly appropriate.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
